ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Good morning. We enter LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle of Articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: First, ‘Clarification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on economic cooperation’. Secondly, 'Clarification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation'. Thirdly, ‘Preparation of Annex XV to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialised Organisations, with regard to the World Organisation of Intellectual Property’. Fourthly, ‘Preparation of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who object to the ratification of these conventions for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, may take the floor for five minutes on the condition that the Presidents of the parliamentary groups have not spoken. The vote on all four conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately and in the order of debate. Does he agree with this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Let's get one, one. The first reservation concerning Indonesia has been made in terms of SYRIZA and Greek Solution. From SYRIZA who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u3	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u4	You have made a reservation for the first you and the Greek Solution. Mrs. Jackie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, with regard to the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Greek democracy and the Government of Indonesia on economic cooperation, I should first like to point out that our approach to these agreements as a horizontal principle is supportive. We believe that the trade agreements signed with third countries in theory will help to extrovert the Greek economy and facilitate Greek exporters, create opportunities and new business and encourage new investments. The entrepreneurial environment is becoming more predictable and a system of trade rules is created. With regard to this Agreement now between the Government of Greek democracy and the Government of Indonesia for economic cooperation, my information says that since 2014 the Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Indonesia, which was five years old with the possibility of annual extensions, has been in force. In Greece, the Agreement has been ratified with Mr L. Date of birth: (a) 4226/2014. I think - and disprove me if I am wrong - that this agreement is still in force. Since 2016, negotiations on a free trade agreement between the European Union and Indonesia have started and the Framework Agreement is in force. If I'm not mistaken, the tenth round of negotiations is over. I am also aware that Article 48 of Law 4226 provides that the Framework Agreement does not prohibit any action taken by Member States to undertake bilateral cooperation activities with Indonesia or possibly to conclude new agreements on economic cooperation with Indonesia. The question arises, however, about the feasibility and necessity of this agreement. It is not clear what gap it comes to covers that is not covered by the present overall framework Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Indonesia, or what will be its useful since the signing of the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Indonesia. That is my question that you did not answer the debate in the committee, and that is why I insisted. I would also like to repeat a permanent request. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the relevant department should have informed us with a detailed note on the feasibility and necessity of this agreement and with a brief background on the relations between the two countries. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u7	I did not understand from the position of the rapporteur whether he would vote or vote against this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u8	But that's why we asked, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u9	Minister... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u10	If you'd been attending, Mr. Catrugale, the whole meeting, all of this has been answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u12	Well, they can say it during the vote. Perhaps the Minister would like to answer and make your position clear as to whether you are in favour. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, the Minister is right indeed. I was not personally present at this committee, and I would therefore ask you to reply to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u14	All right, they'll say it in the vote. Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution for the first ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u15	Mr. President, can I talk about everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u16	For your reservation. If you have voted for one, it is not foreseen. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, you bring various agreements periodically to ratify, not just as a foreign ministry. The fact that it tends to become a practical sanctioning of agreements is not because we have a matter with the number of agreements, but because our country must before signing and ratify an agreement to consider whether it promotes and serves our own interests, carefully examine what we need from every agreement to take, what we gain, whether we win and what we get from it. Your rapporteur at the committee meeting mentioned, among other things, Minister, that our country is observing its obligations under various conventions and agreements. That's true. But it is not only a question of ratifying agreements, not only of clicking on saying that it has been done well, but also of demanding that other states actually take on their obligations. We also point this out in particular in relation to our relations with the European Union and the other Member States. Clearly, our country can no longer raise the burden itself, for example with illegal immigrants. The Greek citizen and the Greek people can no longer be allowed to continue to make sacrifices. Here we see the plans to fill our country, our islands with huge structures, with thousands of illegal people. This is a long way from the principles of uncertainty, contribution and solidarity. At the same time, you know that very well, today that Greek citizens are even deprived of basic food. Let's go to the deals now. In particular, the Agreement with Indonesia is a bilateral agreement with broad content for cooperation in various sectors of production. The aim is to develop economic cooperation between both countries in areas of mutual interest and to establish a Joint Committee. Finally, however, the question is whether we will benefit from this agreement. This extroversion, as you say, will have a positive impact on our national economy, will we have an increase in our exports to that country, or will we finally see further foreign products flooding the Greek market, further undermining Greek production and, of course, Greek productivity? The second agreement between the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean is ratification of an agreement resulting from our European obligations, as it says again. This is an International Foundation as an International Intergovernmental Character Organization and you bring it for ratification now, five years after the signing. I would remind you that the Foundation is based in Hamburg, Germany, and there are similar prerogatives and immunities for the Foundation in Germany. At the same time, there is a favourable tax treatment for the Foundation in the participating countries, without all the sources of funding being clear at the same time. It can establish strategic partnerships with public and private bodies, while aiming at contributing to civil society and other social actors. You know, all these international organisations are talking about and promoting, as they say, global cooperation, integration, strengthening the poor countries, sustainable development. All that sounds really good. The question, however, is not just whether this is possible, but above all that the national needs and capabilities of each country must always be taken into account. We are also saying this because our country is on the verge of a generalised food crisis and has many serious problems facing it. In the end, all these international organisations, such cooperation, do they end up promoting the economically stronger countries and their interests in smaller and poorer countries? Third, it is the agreement to ratify the 15th Annex to the Convention on the Privileges of Specialized Organisations in relation to the World Intellectual Property Organisation. This annex was adopted by the Agency's Coordination Committee in 1977 and now, forty-four years later, ratification comes. Our country with Law No 4471/76 ratified the main Convention and its fourteen annexes at that time. Who is serving to ratify this Agreement now, almost half a century after it was signed? And don't tell us the spirit creators and their intellectuals. This is the case with standing clauses, privileges and immunities of qualified organisations to be applied to the World Intellectual Property Organisation. We are talking about establishing a privileged treatment to senior members of the Agency and their family members. And it's not just tax reliefs and discounts. We're talking about special privileges, arrest immunitys, confiscation immunities. We are talking about violations of documents and records, extrajudiciality, a privileged index, therefore, of protection and immunity. At the same time, the State budget is to be charged with preferential treatment for the representatives and officials of the Agency. We close with Croatia, with Croatia's participation in the European Economic Area, and the relevant agreements are amended and adapted. The European Economic Area aims to strengthen trade relations at market level through the free movement of staff and capital products. Now how can this country benefit us? The agreement supports the removal of barriers to bilateral trade and trade. What are we really gaining here, though? Will we also have an increase in exports here, as mentioned before, or will imports of foreign goods, especially now, with vertical increases, with precision waves and with shrinked agricultural production? All of these are very serious issues, and they show even more how much needs to be taken into account and to take precedence over national needs. And while all these various financial mechanisms claim to be aimed at reducing economic and social disparities, the truth is that the most economically vulnerable countries are in a bad position. Our country has a bitter experience of such mechanisms. The economic crisis as a cause or as an occasion has suffocated into our homeland and Greek citizens and has led to monuments, cheques, orders, etc., debts and memoirs that we have not stopped, as we all know, to pay and will continue to pay for the next generations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr. Loyadis has the floor now. You have said "PARON", Mr. Loyadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, why don't you give the floor to us who are against?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u20	I'm sorry, you're right, Mr. Paphie. In the hole of speech I went right underneath. On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Papapastasis has the floor. The Communist Party has voted against everything. Therefore, place for everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Agreement between Greece and Indonesia. It is an agreement that contains essential terms that shape this relationship. It is an agreement on economic cooperation which, in our view, also expresses the well-known and prosperous pursuit of the Greek order for the upgrading and international expansion of its field of action. These are the targets that the New Democracy Government has been serving in absolute consistency, as in other natural areas. This agreement serves the interests of the major economic groups and their aim in any way to increase their profitability and therefore has nothing to do with the public interests and needs. This is precisely the main criterion for the position of the Communist Party in relation to this agreement. At the same time, however, we want to highlight two issues. Firstly, the discussed Agreement is used as a tool for the creation of the territory, but also as a means of speeding up the process of promoting the so-called Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Indonesia, which has been in consultation since 2016. This objective promotes the Euro-Union pursuits in the Asian region, where it is known that it is becoming increasingly competitive. After all, the Commission considers these agreements to be a tool for the European Union to reach an overall agreement with Asia in the near future. Second matter. The Agreement between Greece and Indonesia contains other geopolitical objectives. These concern competition between the urban classes of Greece and Turkey. And this is a competition that comes from the planned promotion of Turkish interests in Indonesia and the wider region. On this basis and on the basis of the main criterion that the Agreement between Greece and Indonesia does not serve the people's interests, but is used as a further step of imperialist competition, the Communist Party of Greece is voting against it. In order to ratify the Agreement on the European Union of Latin America - LIS, this institution is a tool to promote relations between the European Union and the community of the Latin American and Caribbean States. This relationship is reflected in the European Union-LAC partnership concerning both economic sectors and political relations, as well as other fields relating to migration, culture and others. This partnership is an attempt by European monopolies to promote their positions in an area which is very strong in the dominance of the United States of America, and in recent years there have been corresponding attempts to infiltrate China. Relations between the European Union and the LAPD therefore promote the common anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots policy that exacerbates unemployment and flexible working relations by turning education, public services, culture, social security, energy and water into a commodity. What the European Union seeks, in particular, is to broaden the markets for large groups, to penetrate European monopolies in public procurement markets, to open up industrial exports at reduced rates in exchange for lowering customs duties on agricultural products in the LDC countries. Latin America in these circumstances is emerging into an intensification of intra-imperialist conflicts between the United States, countries of the European Union, Russia and China. Of course, this includes Brazil’s emerging role. The people have nothing positive to expect from this kind of relationship based on the interests of the monopolies on both sides of the Atlantic, with the necessary intensity of the exploitation of the working class, the bio-opportunities, farmers and self-employed. The JRC is also voting against this agreement. Third Convention, the ratification of Annex XV to the Convention on Privileges and Immunities. With the ratification of this Convention, the Government proceeds to grant a number of privileges from the Greek State to representatives of the World Intellectual Property Organization. It is a penalty, which actually contains very important conditions. The application of these privileges is, in fact, extended to Deputy Directors-General and experts serving in committees of this organization. These are financial facilities, immunity from personal arrest or confiscation of luggage, immunity etc. In the relevant report of the General Accounting Office of the State, only a simple reference to the financial burden on the State budget is made. At the same time that you are discussing the provision of these facilities to representatives of the World Intellectual Property Organization you are conscious of the need for thousands of workers and self-employed for substantial support measures, many of whom are unable to overcome the continuing anti-grassroots measures with which they are constantly confronted. In particular, workers in culture, directly concerned with the issue of copyright, and for whom, of course, only crustaceans are available for those who take them. In close cooperation with the thousands of self-employed and small-professionals, particularly in the focus sector, who have remained completely unprotected within the pandemic and the continuous and selective lockdowns. And today they are obliged to pay sums for copyright in conditions of intense pressure from the various companies they collect. Even more blurred, what and how it is attributed to real creators, with too many incidents of pipelines, extrajudicials that have been growing lately. Therefore, instead of the present Government, like the previous ones, sharing privileges and immunities with representatives of the interests of the large monopolistic groups and in the intellectual property sector with the account to pay him once more to the people through the budget, to take immediate protection measures, not only of those workers whose intellectual property and creation is a gold field of profit for these groups, but also for the thousands of self-employed and micro-enterprises who suffer a multiple hunt from the various collective management organisations. The Communist Party of Greece is also voting against this Convention. Fourth and lastly, the ratification of the Agreement on Croatia's participation in the European Economic Area. With this agreement, Croatia becomes a party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Following accession to the European Union, it is known that each Member State is required to submit to the EEA. Today's process is a purely formal process. The European Economic Area is an Agreement between the European Union and Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. This is a free trade agreement allowing free movement of capital, goods, services and workers between the Member States of the European Union and the three above countries. At the same time, a number of European Union regulations and regulations also apply to these countries following agreements and regulations within the European Economic Area. It entered into force on 1 January 1994 and the body responsible for its implementation is the EEA Consultative Committee serving the respective business groups which seek to benefit from the so-called 'free movement' and 'common regulations', thereby ensuring the free movement of capital and at the same time all those anti-popular and anti-popular regulations of the European Union, adapting to the countries of the European Economic Area in support of natural monopolies. This agreement is at the expense of the peoples of the participating countries. The facilitation of investment by groups in the movement of goods and services, but also of workers without tariffs and other restrictions without bureaucratic procedures, the common arrangements which serve these, serve only their capital and profitability in all the countries of the European Union at the expense of the interests of the workers. I repeat, in all countries, within and outside the European Union, that participate in the European Economic Area. We, the Communist Party of Greece, are opposed to this agreement, as is the case with Croatia's accession, like every country, to the European Union, this transnational imperialist union of capital. Already, the people of Croatia, like the other peoples of the Member States of the European Union, experience the painful consequences of their anti-grassroots policies and their urban governments at their expense. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will say one last thing and I shall end, Mr President. Especially in the Balkan region, imperialist antagonisms and clashes are those that threw their peoples, imposed border changes, formed protectors etc. The European Union, NATO and the United States of America have always played a leading role. The European Union's policy now in the region of the western Balkans and the accession process that it promotes in the countries of the region to deal with the impact of competitive forces, such as Russia and China, is presenting new risks and war adventures for the peoples of this region. Only the liberation of the peoples from the European - Union chains and the Euro-atlantification with power and the economy in their own hands can serve mutually beneficial relations, friendship and peace between the peoples. We are therefore voting against this agreement too. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Mr. Loyadis has the floor. It will speak of all three, i.e. the second, third and fourth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to refer briefly to general issues for the Arkalochori region. First of all, the aid platform for Evia, Central Greece and the Peloponnese has been opened but not for Crete. The people there have been hurt. They are essentially calling for immediate support and, above all, for their construction as first aid. Let us also stress that companies have not received a single euro in spite of the false announcements that have been made so far. They have to pay PPC, ENVY, loans and so on. Let's stress it because now is the census that's happening everywhere. The second is what Yanis Varoufakis told the House on September 30 about the mental experiment. The inconceivable thing that happened. We must pay more than sixty years of age a hundred euros a month fine. My mother is ninety-six years old. Her doctor recommended that she should not be vaccinated. He wasn't vaccinated. What about her, you tell me. This creates a gap, a division in society. Every autocratic action brings a reaction. It divides and exacerbates the problem rather than solves it. Yanis Varoufakis had anticipated this. The third and final general concern the Union digital certificate covid. I read from this that the European Union can decide to automatically recognise certificates issued by other countries with the adoption of equivalence decisions. At present the European Union has adopted a decision of equivalence with eighteen countries. Covid certificates shall be recognised under the same conditions as those applicable to the European Union's digital covid certificate. These include Albania, Northern Macedonia, Turkey and so on. It is not included, for example, in Serbia. Christmas we will have many students from Serbia who will visit Greece. Listen, listen. While they have taken the two vaccines in Serbia, Greece has asked them to do the vaccines from the start. This is essentially dangerous with such vaccinations. That is what I wanted to say in the first place. Let's go to today's articles. For the ratification of an Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, this Convention concerns the accession of Croatia to the European Economic Area established, the EEA. The EEA was set up in 1994 to extend the scope of the European Union provisions on its internal market to the countries of the European Free Trade Area. The prerequisite for accession is the incorporation into the law of the country that wants to join, the legislation of the European Union for the internal market. This agreement falls within the framework of Croatia's accession to the Economic and Monetary Union, i.e. the euro. As MERA25, we cannot vote in favour of the condemnation of a people, the assignment of democratic sovereignty to the Brussels and Frankfurt priesthood, as the European Union currently operates. The European Union is not the European Union of the peoples and governments. It is the European Union of Brussels lobbyists with lobbies who are poloing above and above all governments. So in this article we will vote'residents'. With regard to the ratification of Annex 15 to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialised Organisations with regard to the World Property Organisation, this Annex confers privileges and immunities upon workers of the World Intellectual Property Organisation as already recognised to other specialised organisations of the United Nations System under that Convention. Of course, as we have pointed out as Mera25 in the relevant legislation for the World Tourism Organisation, the provision of immunity to officials from international organisations, even if they are supposed to be typical, do not honor our country. This is where we will be placed with 'the present'. Third. On the ratification of an agreement establishing an international institution of the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean. This Convention concerns the establishment of an international institution of the European Union, of Latin America and of the Caribbean with a view to strengthening the regional partnership between the European Union and its Member States and the Community of the Latin American and Caribbean States. Trouble points shall be identified in its financing as in accordance with Article 16 in specific cases following prior notification to the Governing Council and consultation for the agreement of the Governing Council, the institution may obtain additional resources through external financing from public and private bodies. This is where we will be placed 'Saints'. Finally, to ratify the agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on economic cooperation, we have voted in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. We're entering the third contract. It concerns the ratification of Annex 15 to the World Intellectual Property Organisation. SYRIZA is reserved. Mr. Athanasios Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I will speak very little, but if I may put before the two-minute - three minute - a point of order. If you don't allow me, I'm on my way to the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u26	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u27	We are making a mistake here today, but sometimes too. We're smacking. We have four agreements and we're smacking them. We put them all together and a representative of each party is placed for four. I think that we are also downgrading the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs diplomatic staff, and that is not right. We despise efforts that have been made on these agreements. In any case, in my opinion it is a kind of provincialism. The burdens are high. We cannot have sixteen hours of talks here in Parliament and in countries that have dozens - not to say hundreds - of millions of people, all of whom are being slapped. Today we will discuss four agreements for an hour and a half. I think that this problem should be addressed, Mr President. I raise this point of order. To come every deal separately. Otherwise I think we will be judged once, if not by the present ones, as at least presumptuous.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u28	Let me tell you, Mr. Athanasios, what you said. The fact that they go in together does not mean that the speaking time for each speaker is limited. He shall be independent and provided for in the Rules of Procedure. For each agreement the time is therefore provided for and for each rapporteur again, the time is individual. You saw an example before. The rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece was speaking. He could speak for 20 minutes. His five minutes doesn't lose them or limit them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u29	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u30	So time is not limited. Much more so when many parties in committee have said in favour, so we have even more time gains. In any case, this is a matter. It's a point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u31	I move on to this issue which is about the World Intellectual Property Organisation. That's a nice institution. But it's not enough to be a nice institution. The National Broadcasting Council is also a nice institution, but it is a nice, sleepy institution in Greece in recent years. I think we need to get things straight. We have this organisation the World Intellectual Property Organization. We are voting in favour of its ratification, Minister. But we know what we are voting for. We are voting in favour of a sanction that has been delayed forty-four years. Let me remind you of what I said in the committee. In 1947 the United Nations General Assembly approved an international convention. In 1947. Imagine. Civil war in Greece, a tragic year. Government Sofouli in Greece. The doctrine of Truman is being announced. How old we went. And Mark Vafiadis, as I said, makes statements to London Times with peaceable proposals. This 1947 Convention was approved by the Greek Parliament in 1976 by the first post-political government. In other words, it has been delayed for twenty-nine years. A year later, the World Intellectual Property Organization, in 1977, is forced to add to its fourteenth protocols another, fifteenth. Why? I would also like to draw the attention of the Communist Party here, because we need to make this clear. There is a revolution in some areas of art. For example, copyright must be protected in graphics and there is a vulnerability to steal these rights worldwide. So in 1977, in order to deal with this theft orgy, in order to protect intellectual rights, they create the fifteenth protocol. And we in Greece stole copyright. Let me say something, which is not graphic: a magazine, 'Seven', was published at the time, a very serious magazine, which had copyed the title 'Time'. Four letters "Time", four letters and "Seven". It was an absolute reasoning. One of the thousands that happened back then. Well, these had to be handled. This protocol is therefore issued in 1977, which we are called upon to ratify today. From 1977 to 2021, how many years is it? Forty-four years. We are coming, in other words, to ratify here today what we had to do forty-four years ago. That is why I said that in some areas Greece has not yet entered the 21st century. Now I have heard the following: that here we only approve immunitys, the establishment of a quasi-minor embassy, the right of the one who will be in this quasi-minor embassy not to be able to search his things, not to confiscate his documents, not to be able to open in his suitcase. Look. Yeah, that's true. And this must be done at every embassy or quasi-minor embassy. But not having a delegation from the World Intellectual Property Organization here helps steal copyright. It is not the same thing to be able to enter a delegation based in a central Athens street and to be able to submit a document on a similar case. This is very important. It is not just about the adoption of certain immunities. It is about representing Greece in an international organisation that protects intellectual rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. We now go to the fourth convention on the Republic of Croatia and Mr Amanatidis will take the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll speak from my position, I don't have to go up on the Step. Such ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area is an international obligation of the country resulting from its status as a Member State of the European Union. This Agreement has been provisionally applied since 12 April 2014 and our country is completing the ratification process today. In essence, that is, it is a typical, right now, ratification of Croatia's accession to the European economic area. We have also put to the committee the Minister, Mr Varvitsiotis, the question of how Croatia should deal with the possible limitation of funds that we as a country absorb, especially on the issue of immigration, from the European Economic Area Fund, as with ratification Croatia will be an eligible country for its funding. Mr President, we are voting in favour of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Parliamentary representatives are now in order. Does any of the Parliamentary Representatives want to speak? Oh, no. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by commenting on the position of Mr Athanasios. I fully agree with my colleague. Each international agreement should be automatically ratified by a law, so that this agreement, this law, is registered in the Agency or the Contracting Party's minutes and is not accompanied by unnecessary amendments to the text of the Agreement. This is a reality and I am glad that you understand this reality, which will make our relationship with international organisations more functional. I would remind you, however, that we have experienced an incredible circumvention of this practice beforehand. At least, international agreements should not be accompanied by unnecessary amendments. I particularly remember the first period of the country's governance by SYRIZA, where entire bills passed alongside international agreements, so that it would reach the international organisation or the counterparty state, not only the text of the bilateral agreement, but arrangements for insurance, taxation, pharmaceuticals. It was a policy which, I recall, all the'memorandum' governments did not adopt. We are returning to normality. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs disagrees, if there is any need for any emergency legislation on the part of the Government, to infiltrate any legislative initiative to ratify an international convention with any unrelated amendment. Don't think we're not resisting the government's pressure. We are also resisting the pressures of the government, but we believe that, for order, seriousness and the country's external good testimony, every international convention should be ratified by means of a law. I shall therefore agree and accept your criticism as a good person. We will see that in future it is not a law, but that the laws with which these conventions are to be ratified are different. I now come to the issues raised in relation to the content of the conventions. Let me start with Indonesia: I really do not understand criticism, at least as far as SYRIZA is concerned. Is it a bad thing that our country is in line with another country - and indeed so rising financially - bilaterally, beyond and outside the agreements of the European Union? Is it wrong that our country pays particular attention to a country that currently has 70 million inhabitants, has around EUR 150,000 000 000 imports and expects to be introduced through the establishment of an information exchange mechanism, but also to resolve bilateral issues, not to resort to Brussels to solve them, but to have a bilateral mechanism to resolve any trade disputes? I don't think there's anyone who disagrees with this thing. It must be unreasonable to criticise him. And that is why I also answered the Commission and I am replying here today, saying that what we agreed with Indonesia is a model of economic cooperation that we have agreed with too many countries. We are setting up a Joint Interministerial Committee through which we are trying to develop bilateral relations and to resolve the problems that exist on both sides at the highest government level. If this is considered unreasonable, unfunctional and our country should not have independent economic relations with third countries and only be covered behind the framework of the European Union, then I do not think it goes hand in hand with the framework and aim of the current government. If in the past there was any such conception on the part of SYRIZA, I have not seen it, because I know that at the level of bilateral agreements, and SYRIZA has tried to develop a good bilateral spirit of cooperation with third countries, beyond and outside the framework of the European Union. (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (Mixed reactions) (M) (M) (M) (M) (M) (M) I therefore consider that this is the gap covered by today's agreement, that our country should have a stand-alone, arbitrary relationship with Indonesia, and I do not understand why SYRIZA has reserved and created such a big debate about this. We shall now proceed to the positions concerning ratification in relation to Indonesia. With regard to the ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Foundation for the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean, I have heard various questions, but I do not understand who disagrees in the deepening of cultural relations between two regions of the world, which also have many cultural links. It is an institution that will deepen the contact of peoples and cultures, an institution which is financed by the countries - members of the European Union - and our country is financing the Foundation with a symbolic sum - and aims to develop cultural exchanges, to contact cultures and peoples. All the others, which have been said by this step or by the Commission's Step, I think they are beyond and outside the spirit of this agreement. With regard to the ratification of the Annex to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialised Organisations with regard to the World Intellectual Property Organisation, it is true that intellectual property and intellectual property issues are of the dominant rights that are currently being violated and destroyed and many creators see their works not to be protected, be they artistic creation or industrial property. Therefore, strengthening the way the International Organisation operating under the aegis of the United Nations, through providing facilities to their managers, to do their job, I think that only agreement could be reached. The fact that it has been forty years since it came to the Greek Parliament to ratify this agreement, I believe that, in fact, it does not honour any of the people who had the responsibility so far, in order to proceed with our cooperation with this organization. And I do not understand who is against an agreement which is and is operating under the United Nations. That is why I do not understand - as I do not understand in general - the position of the Communist Party of Greece which is voting against all the agreements - its reaction to this case. What monopoly interests does it promote? What does he say to the creators? That a global organisation operating under the aegis of the United Nations is oppressive for the interests of creators? Really, that position goes beyond me. Mr. Paphie, don't look at me like that. He's getting over me! I've realized that you want Greece closed, isolated from the rest of the planet. This is what you show by voting against all agreements, whether they relate to cultural cooperation or to intellectual property. As far as bilateral economic cooperation is concerned, you have responded, although we are explaining that the opening-up of the Indonesian market is very important, and of course, as far as the European Union is concerned, your positions are well known. Now, with regard to the ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, it is true that it is a sideline of participation in the European Union. We believe that the deepening of the European Union, but also the enlargement of the European Union to the Balkans, is a national strategy which all governments have been serving over the past twenty years. After all, the European Union's enlargement policy towards the western Balkans and the Balkans is a policy adopted under the Greek Presidency in 2003 and, as a result, the entry of Bulgaria and Romania and Croatia into the European Union and the continuation of accession negotiations with Serbia, Montenegro and the opening of accession negotiations with Albania and northern Macedonia. We believe that the participation of the countries of the western Balkans and the whole Balkan continent in the European Union contributes to the consolidation of stability, peace, cooperation in the region and the development of excellent bilateral relations, which will remain a cornerstone of our foreign policy, and that is why we support this agreement. In conclusion, Mr President, as a matter of recognition of vaccines has been raised, I am not in complete adequacy to answer all the recognitions that have been made at European Union level. What I can tell you is that our country recognises the vaccination certificates almost all of the countries. We have unilaterally moved on to the recognition of vaccination certificates whether they come from China or come from Russia. I will tell you, at some point - because the dawn I returned from Moscow - that while Russian vaccination certificates are recognised in Greece and the Russian visitor can go to a restaurant, in a theater, in a cinema, showing his vaccination certificate, the corresponding does not apply to the Russian Federation, which does not recognize the European Union vaccination certificates and, by extension, neither the Greek vaccination certificate, so that we are forced for any contacts we have made, to carry out a PCR test every day so that we can move. In fact, the PCR tests had 24-hour power in the Russian Federation and you understand what suffering and costs we are talking about. We are therefore one of the countries that recognise vaccines, which have taken place in Serbia and, often, in response to the European Commission and Member States of the European Union, who have not made such brave recognitions, particularly the Sputnik vaccine. In the case of Greece, we insist on this opening, because we believe that the main objective should be global vaccination, global cooperation in the treatment of the virus, and, of course, global recognition of at least the vaccination certificates from countries where we recognise that they have the administrative capacity to support such certificates and could through their extradition facilitate the movement of their citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u38	You're welcome, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u39	The Minister spoke and we have the right as Parliamentary Representatives to sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u40	Please, Mr. Pafili, you have the floor and, if the Minister wants, he'll do a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u41	Minister, what you do not understand or do that you do not understand and it is not a personal matter for you, is that you tell us that the Communist Party wants Greece isolated. On the contrary. The Communist Party wants to have relations with all the peoples, equitable relationships that will serve people's interests. Your policy and all the rest is a policy of pensioning with the barbarism that today creates the domination of imperialism worldwide, is a pension with the murderous organization that is responsible not only for the past, but also recently, called NATO, which has devoured peoples all over the world and the conscious subjection to the plans that are currently being demonstrated throughout the region and throughout the world. That's our difference. We have a criterion for placing ourselves in general these international agreements or conventions. The first is that we are not dispersed by the international developments that exist throughout the world. And secondly, what interests they serve. These criteria. You cannot say, as if you do not know our position with all the peoples, equitable relationships, mutually advantageous. But who can do that? A man serving aggressive interests and capitalist barbarism all over the world? The sovereign order that governs all the countries, which has power in its hands, which is what is of interest to profits and, indeed, to profits from wars and interventions? We say no. Neither through organisations, which are precisely impoverishing the peoples, such as the European Union, or through organisations such as NATO that are not hesitant to murder entire peoples to serve the interests of business groups. Such governments cannot objectively have equal relations, mutually advantageous with other peoples. So let me speak in particular. Firstly, all agreements are a photocopy of the European Union either with Latin American countries or with other countries separately. It's literally a photocopy. It's just that some things can be different. And what do we mean? The European Union has conditions and the terms are, for example, a tight economic policy. The conditions are privatizations that are generalized in all countries, so that any aid is assumed to be false. Literally fake. It's the sugar, and from inside comes the quinine. So these agreements do not serve the interests of the people, and that is obvious. No one can deny this today, unless it is unreasonable, because the same reality is shown by all these agreements. Who wins and who loses. People are impoverished by this tight economic policy imposed by the governments of these countries, but the terms of agreements with the European Union are also the same. If you want to have a general conversation once. Let me just say it. If you do not get approval from the European Union, NATO and the Americans, you do nothing in all areas. Such are the international agreements that, depending on size, Greece is trying to serve business groups interests. And that's why we're against it. We are not opposed to people's cooperation. We oppose this policy and these agreements that are being made against the people, and that has proved to be everywhere. And we have global and international experience and you know that very well from the European Union, but also from the general point of view. After all, reality itself, for example, vaccines. The barbarity of the system and of the European and all those who serve it is that it does not release patents to produce all countries vaccines to live in. Is that a conscious murder or not? Why is that so? In order not to reduce the profits of multinationals, which have taken billions, not to say trillions, state aid, i.e. tax on all peoples to produce vaccines. Here's an example of Crystal and Today's. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If one, one of the conventions were to go, we would have 20 minutes for both the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives. I am not going to abuse time, but because some issues have been raised. In relation to what Mr Athanasios said and which the Minister has agreed, you are making a conscious retraining, both of you and of everyone. For the UN you are taking a subtraction. The UN is nothing more than anything. There was another association of forces until 1990-1991 and another after 1991. And this proves so blatant that it is essentially an instrument of imperialist antagonisms that must be blind to admitting it or whistling indifferently. The UN has, on the basis of its charter at that time, changed, Mr Athanasios, on many points. For example, it says that no country has the right to intervene within a country. Humanity has been devastated here, the Balkans have been dispersed, the UN has given blessings with some objections, which were irrelevant. Today he uses NATO as a military aggressor to enforce law. Is it like this or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u42	Come on, Mr. Palphie, to the conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u43	Leave me five minutes. Same happens everywhere. It was otherwise, and to a large extent, it was not ratified by special governments. Why didn't they validate him for forty years? Tell me. And now everyone's in a hurry. And we do not have any illusion that those who are in these organizations today are innocent pigeons and will defend copyright. And all these immunities, which, otherwise, we could discuss, are not randomly given. Because they serve the interests of giant multinational business groups in this area. And they're not poor. That is precisely why we are opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u44	Come on, Mr. Paphie, in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u45	Excuse me, may I ask you something? It's four contracts. Are we entitled to five minutes each?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u47	Good. I'm in seven minutes. Give me one more minute, nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u48	All right, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u49	I'm done here. This is the criterion and those who today defend the UN as it is, defend the sovereignty of the barbarity of capitalism. That's what they're defending. There is no today, the correlations have changed radically. Once the peoples were different, otherwise things would come back. No one can definitely invoke the UN. Was the UN decision on Yugoslavia bombing correct? It could be given if the correlation that was between the former socialist countries and the independent countries and other progressive governments that then reacted and could not pass was another one. Today it is literally an instrument of imperialists. And finally, Minister, I will say a word. In relation to Indonesia and the agreement beyond what I said before, we are studying what is happening and what has been shifted to Asia today. We are considering what plans there are for the region, which produces more than 30% of world GDP, which consumes energy, which is a theatre and which the Americans have started on a first line. That's why they did the Australian agreement, and so on. The world situation is exacerbating and competition with Russia, China, America and others are very hard and can end up in war too. The point is, what position do you take in all of this? Therefore, regardless of what economics are being pursued, i.e. business groups, because the people have nothing to gain, to enter that market too, of course this is their right and you give it to them. There are also the more general geostrategic factors that play a role, and that is why we say these agreements are letonies. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, you should answer a whole question, because further questions may be asked. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, one of the conditions for effective communication between people is to understand what our interlocutor says and to respond accordingly. And if this is merely a duty of abundance in simple association, it is a constitutional duty for a minister who comes to the House to inform, but also to explain. Mrs Jackson asked you what more this bilateral agreement is introducing in relation to the existing framework between the European Union and Indonesia which has been concluded with the Framework Treaty and, in particular, with a view to its amendment to the new Free Trade Agreement. So what did we expect from a minister who knows his file? To tell us that in matters of special Greek interest we have this and that we promoted the bilateral relationship in these fields. If you don't know, you'd better give another answer than she did. But you are also responsible for the way and the style you are addressing this House. You should know, for example, that in the context of this process, precisely because in foreign policy issues, we avoid introducing points of political controversy which are irrelevant to the bills that are being discussed. So you have chosen, in the context of a usual tactic that the government has to opposition to the opposition, which we have done in the Memorandum years. It is not a question of wondering about this tactic. Here we heard from the Prime Minister that SYRIZA has put us in the memorandum. This attempt to reverse reality shows guilty consciousness and is completely inconsistent with reality. At a time when this is a period of parliamentary normality, you brought here a bill from the Ministry of Culture a codification which, unlike the standard directives of the Central Codification Committee, contained provisions of international conventions. You are therefore indifferent at a time when you do not have external pressure on how parliamentary procedures should be carried out. And without responding to the points in your file, you're trying to create unrelated distractions. You'd better tell us you don't know what you came to talk to us about. Nevertheless, we expect you to respond to what we have told you, namely what more this bilateral agreement introduces and not tell us generalities and that there are contacts between the two countries. Again, it is more honest to tell us that you do not know the file and that you come without preparation in the House. With regard to what my friend, Death Paphias, said, I want to say this. I have never heard from the JRC what you said just now that the UN is an instrument of imperialist competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u52	I've heard you say it's an alibi many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u53	Don't have a dialogue. Place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u54	Answer me. I can't help myself on something he said. I have heard the position that the UN is an alibi to imperialist competition. It's another alibi, another instrument. It is a position that is clearly contrary to reality. The UN is the main instrument of multilateralism in international diplomatic relations. It is this organization that has taken place for a number of fronts in defence of peoples and rights. Let me remind you of the UN's decisions against the Cuban embargo. Let me remind you of the decisions of the United Nations on Palestinian rights. Let me remind you of our immediate issue of interest, Cyprus. If you say what you say about the UN you cannot effectively defend our national interests. I am not surprised that when the Cuban - European Union agreement had been ratified, you have reached the point to tell me that Cuban communists are less communists than you, that they do not know their interests and that this agreement...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u55	No, I got that answer. As you may not know, you voted against the EU-Cuba agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u56	Yes, for the conditions set by the European Union, that's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u57	So, did you consider...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, do not engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u59	We've been talking about the UN for ten years, but you're the only ones who read...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no personal matter, but will be asked for the floor later on by Mr Pafilis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u61	When one considers that heroes in Cuba are more receptive than you, that you can judge them...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u62	What are you talking about? Aren't you embarrassed? Where did you get that and say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u63	I have to remind you of the relevant provision of the Rules of Procedure which says that the President should recommend that speakers do not get away with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u64	Well, I'll be done. We must stand with responsibility for what remains, despite its shortcomings and weaknesses, the main instrument for guaranteeing multilateralism in international relations, the only barrier we have in unilateral actions by those forces that want to promote not the rights of the people, but their own interests. We must be particularly careful in their wording, precisely so that we do not undermine our own positions on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. There's no other colleague who wants to talk. So the Minister will close. And we'll organize a conference on international law to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, as far as the Convention with Indonesia is concerned, I wonder what both the rapporteur and the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman do not understand, what more it brings with regard to the European Union - Indonesia agreement. I have answered three times so far: Joint Interministerial Committee, bilateralisation of relations, exchange through the two governments of a framework for cooperation through which disputes will be resolved. It's very simple. I've been explaining it to you for three days now and you can't understand it. This is something that Mr Katrugalos should understand. There is no personal issue, Mrs Jackson, I just realize that those who have not served at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may not have the perception of operating these mechanisms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u67	You haven't even made a press release at the State Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u68	I see Mr Katrugalo and Mr Amanatidis who know very well how the Joint Interministerial Committees operate and know that too many issues related to either private investment or bureaucratic malfunctions are referred to in order to solve problems that arise. I would remind you that the corresponding photocopy - as Mr Pafilis says - was an agreement between your government and Colombia and Peru which was signed by Minister Kotzias and which was ratified by Parliament. I think that you, too, have co-chaired the respective joint interministerial committees with which the framework for bilateral economic relations is laid down. I do not understand what new we imagine could be done. It is the bilateralization of our trade relations, beyond and away from Brussels. We do not expect the Brussels press office to put on the table the Greek investment or the protection of Greek products or Greek exports. We put it on our own. It is about an upcoming economy of two hundred and seventy million people. I heard all about NATO, but it didn't answer me because the World Intellectual Property Organization has something to do with NATO. You know, Mr. Paphie, who are we protecting? Participating in WIPO is a hundred and ninety-three countries on the planet. Do you know who has submitted in the last year patents and intellectual property to be recognized worldwide on the Greek side? Because it's not too small. They are five hundred and thirty-six Greek requests from Greeks who live in Greece, are three hundred sixty three applications for patent recognition from others who work and are located in Greece and five hundred and ninety-three Greek requests from foreign Greeks who submit the recognition of their intellectual property. Among the other patents deposited by the World Organization are the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, it is the Institute of Biomedicine of the Academy of Athens, which is the Hellenic Institute for Research and Technology, the Institute for Electronic Applications and lasers. Basically, apart from private bodies, and state bodies take the knowledge and the new technology that create Greek minds in Greece and regulate it internationally. And I do not understand how the JRC will say that "I do not believe that this agency promotes your interests, is repressive in the context of NATO and the European Union and the global capitalist system, and you should not go to safeguard your patents internationally".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u69	We're not saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u70	Really, that's what I understand. If you want, go explain to them why the JRC can better protect from all other parties of the House their intellectual property, which we in our positive vote - and I put all the parties of the House that defend this organization - want its strengthening, its good functioning, even delayed acceptance of the status of immunity to its managers, in order to function well, to protect intellectual property, protect creation and give these people and scientists the right to recognize their work worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like the floor to say our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u72	There are no secondments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u73	He wants to say what we're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u74	Do you want to state now what you are going to vote on? You will say so by voting now. You'll vote now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u75	Let's just clarify...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u76	It will come about by the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u77	The vote will take place with the electronic voting system, and Mrs Jackson will not be able to speak. He wants to give an answer, because we will be positive in view of the Minister's replies. Given the need to protect bilateral relations, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u78	I need a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u79	Ms. Jackres, and a written statement you can make, but you can do it now. But only as a statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much. Although Mr Varvitsiotis is still insulting, while he should be detailed, I, Mr Varvitsiotis, only found in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, although I have not served there, on the day that the agreement was supposed to be signed is a press release September 21, 2019...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u81	That's not a statement, Mr. Catrugale. It's a placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u82	...that Foreign Minister Nikos Dendias will accompany Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis who will lead the Greek mission on the high-level week of the 74st UN General Assembly in New York and nothing else on this agreement that was signed that day. Nothing else in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about this agreement. I said this and would point out that every time for agreements we should be given a detailed note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about what each and every one of them includes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u83	What you're doing now... We sometimes take advantage of the duty of the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, let me be. But I continue, and I say despite the fact that we did not get answers, because it is our basic principle that bilateral relations must be established, we shall vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. A single debate on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being held in a timely manner, and they will be voted on separately, one - a bill. We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law, i.e. the first bill, ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on economic cooperation’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u87	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: Repeal of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on economic cooperation The Authority considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: YES Article 1 1 FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: YES Article 2(2), second subparagraph N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: YES Cereals Article BY SURVEILLANCE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: YES Total FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: YES
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u88	The draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ‘Presenting the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on economic cooperation’ has therefore been accepted by a majority of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u89	We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law 'Following the Agreement establishing the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u91	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: Repeal of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation The Authority considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON Article 1 1 FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON Cereals Article BY SURVEILLANCE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON Total FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u92	The draft law ‘Presenting the Agreement establishing the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean’ has therefore been approved by a majority of the following institutions:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u93	We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs "Preparation of Annex XV to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialized Entities with regard to the World Intellectual Property Organisation". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u95	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: Validation of Annex XV to the Convention on Privileges and Immunities of Specialised Entities, as regards the World Intellectual Property Organisation The Authority considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON Article 1 1 FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON Cereals Article BY SURVEILLANCE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON Total FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u96	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ‘Preparation of Annex XV to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialised Entities, with regard to the World Intellectual Property Organisation’ was accepted by a majority of the uniform in principle, Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u97	We are entering the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u99	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: Repeal of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area The Authority considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON Article 1 1 FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON Cereals Article BY SURVEILLANCE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON Total FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: PRON
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u100	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area’ has been accepted by a majority of the following articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u102	The House has given the mandate requested. We now enter the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "To ratify the interchange of financial communications of the Agreement on diplomatic relations between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign Military Order of Saint John, the Jerusalemians of Rhodes and Malta and the declaration contained in the financial communication of the Chancellor of the sovereign Military Order of Saint John, the Jerusalemians of Rhodes and Malta, one-sided statement". At its meeting on 25 November this year, the Conference of Presidents decided to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle and the articles. The speakers will be registered electronically until the end of the speech by the second rapporteur. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u103	The House has agreed. Please, open up the system for the electronic recording of colleagues who want to speak. The rapporteur, Mr Christos Dermentzopoulos, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be passed, they are ratified by exchange in the financial communications between the Embassy of Greece in Rome and the Chancellor of the sovereign Military Order of Saint John the Jerusalemians of Rhodes and Malta, respectively, with which it was agreed to conclude diplomatic relations between the two parties. The contents of a unilateral statement by Chancellor of the sovereign Military Hospital Order of St. John the Jerusalemians of Rhodes are also ratified. In particular, in the exchange of financial communication, the two parties express their intention to further develop their cooperation in the field of humanitarian action. Bearing in mind that the mission of the Order today is mainly humanitarian, the preamble to the Agreement expressly acknowledges its long-term contribution to the provision of humanitarian aid and states the wish of the parties to facilitate the fulfilment of this mission. Furthermore, it is expressly stated that the Agreement will enter into force when the Greek side informs the Order of the completion of the internal procedures required. A clear statement of the Order is contained in the contents of the financial unilateral communication and a unilateral statement, according to which the Order has no real estate on Greek territory, and never had or would have raised claims against the Greek State in future relating to property situated on Greek territory. Subsequently, the second article provides that the Sovereign Hospital Order enjoys the usual privileges and immunities enjoyed by foreign diplomatic missions in Greece. Recognition of diplomatic privileges and immunities in the Order's diplomatic delegation is the result of the conclusion of diplomatic relations. Furthermore, since the Order is not a party to the 1961 Vienna Convention and diplomatic relations, no explicit reference shall be made to that Convention. The usual privileges and immunities, however, mean the privileges and immunities provided for in that Vienna Convention, as this codifies to a very large extent the existing customary law and is generally accepted, so that it is deemed to represent the usual one. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of such agreements is another proof of the mobility of Greek diplomacy. For this reason, let me refer to some historical elements highlighting the importance of this sanction, as well as the important action that this Order has taken. The Order was founded with Papakikos Voula in 1113, based in the Holy Land until the crusading states were destroyed and then settled in Rhodes, with a final location in Rome. From the top moments of the Order was the successful repulse of the Ottoman attack, as well as its participation in other small or larger battles with victorious results. With a peaceful period of time now, the Order was permanently settled in Rome in 1834, dealing with charity works. From this point on, it became a humanitarian and religious organization as the Sovereign Military Order of St. John's Hostel and is active in many international organizations. In 1961 the Order was recognized by the Holy See as the Sovereignty Military Order of St. John, Jerusalem, Rhodes and Malta, from the Ospetals of St. John’s Hospital of Jerusalem. The Order maintains diplomatic relations with more than a hundred countries, having many representatives, issuing its own passports, currency, stamps, and even registration signs. Currently, it is a state entity and is recognised by the UN, as it has an observer position in the United Nations. The diplomatic activities of the Order are linked to its humanitarian mission. His programmes include medical and social support, assistance in the event of armed conflicts and natural disasters, emergency services and First Aid Corps, assistance for the elderly, the disabled and the children in need, and providing first aid training and support for refugees and displaced persons. As has been repeatedly stressed by the Prime Minister himself, one of our country's objectives for the next few decades is to strengthen its image, reputation and credibility. In other words, the need for Greece to become more convincing, more attractive to international public opinion, that is to say, to develop its mild strength and its ability to pursue active policy in potentially non-traditional ways. It is therefore necessary to strengthen diplomacy and strengthen relations between Greece and other bodies. Since the government took office, in addition to this agreement we are debating today, we have signed a hundred and six bilateral agreements - I am referring to the entire government - and thirty-nine multilateral agreements, six and thirty-nine. In recent months only important agreements have been ratified with Member States, such as the Greek-French Defence Agreement establishing a strategic partnership and cooperation in security and defence, the five-year mutual defence cooperation agreement between Greece and the United States and other agreements. It is therefore clear that the vote to be taken in a private communication is another step in strengthening Greek diplomacy. Ladies and gentlemen, voting for this agreement is an opportunity for a wide-ranging cooperation and exchange of views and humanitarian aid programmes. Greece remains firmly committed to further strengthening and strengthening its links with countries and development programmes. I would like to stress that everyone is now required to take responsibility for it, for which it will of course be judged. The prevailing situation requires consensus, wisdom and not references to micro-participatory feasibility and words of air. Let us now start making proposals and stopping sterile criticism. The position here is initially judged by the Greek people and also by our conscience. We, in New Democracy, are faithful to our vision of a powerful Greece, we are seeing ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u105	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Now is the reason for Mrs Jackson, SYRIZA rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have already taken a positive stand in the Commission, Mr President. Our vote has been recorded as positive. Minister, the comments of the Scientific Agency, which we consider to be in the right direction, have come to our attention. We would like you to put yourself on your proposal to accept them, because we think that the remarks made here are really correct and should be incorporated into the verb of the agreement itself. That is all, Mr President, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Mr. Nikolaos Papanastasis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u108	The Agreement on diplomatic relations between Greece and the so-called 'State Military Order of Saint John the Jerusalemian and Malta by exchanging financial communications raises many questions, which are in no way answered by the relevant texts submitted by the Government. The very issue of the creation of the Order would perhaps allow a historic debate to take place in another place, even a debate on the'state entity' - we put it in introductory form - the sovereign Military Hospital of the Order of Ioannis. But that's not what this is about. Why is it that the government brings about ratification of a diplomatic agreement with a body with a virtual, objectively and state-owned entity that has no territorial sovereignty, so we cannot talk about diplomatic relations? We are overcoming what is written about the commitment of the Order to the provision of humanitarian aid, as the Greek financial communication says. Because our eyes have seen a lot and, as we have seen at other times, behind the issue of humanitarian aid there are interests and aspirations - we are seeing them today - which are, as a general rule, covered by great and euphoric words. Finally, we are concerned about the advisability of reassurance, as stated in the financial communication, that the Order never had or would have maintained or raised any claims against the Hellenic Republic regarding real estate in the Hellenic Republic in future. He gave some answers to the ministry. We are not satisfied and the question remains alive. As is also not clear about what is said below, namely that "the above do not affect the right of the Order to acquire real estate in Greece in the future and to make use of any legal means provided for by the legislation of the Hellenic Republic for its protection". And this issue remains active. Today we are like this, tomorrow we can differentiate the requirements. Overall, we note that the aims and objectives of the Order's action and, in general, this agreement are not clear and therefore, our party is voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Papastasis. Mr. Hetas Special Buyer from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Here we have no ratification of an agreement like those of the previous meeting. This is a bill that verifies financial communications between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign, as it is called, the Hospital Order of the Knights of Jerusalem, the Rhodes of Malta of St John. At the meeting of the competent Commission we expressed our strong reservations, our concerns about this Sovereign Order, and we asked you to inform us of its nature, its purpose, its actions and what he plans to do in our country. And while you say that this is not a transnational agreement since it is not a state, you come and give it international recognition as sovereign. It is clearly stated in the explanatory statement that the purpose of the bill is to recognise the property of this Order in Greece by sending its diplomatic representatives. Sovereign Order and recognition of his presence in our country as what, with regard to what exactly and in what way? And since it's not a state, why are you acting like it is? Clearly in the explanatory statement, it is mentioned as a long-term objective of our country to upgrade bilateral relations with this Sovereign Order. Bilateral relations between our country and the Order. Are you upgrading the Order to an equal party as a state or downgrading our country to an undetermined entity? Looks like both of them are happening here. Minister, you identified the Order at the Commission meeting as an action body. What kind of body is that? Is this a union, a foundation, a NGO? What's his identity? What's his purpose? How do you bring Parliament to ratify financial communication without any official accompanying documents for this Order? I note that the exchange in the financial communications has taken place since January 2018, while the last announcement from the Order took place in July 2021. You told us you were the ones who went to the Battalion and asked for this communication. As for the plans for the Order's action, you referred to its humanitarian action in relation to immigrants and refugees. Your goal is to facilitate the Order to carry out its activities to provide humanitarian aid and assistance to Greece. This is expressly mentioned in the recital. You want them to participate, to organize dominant actions within the Greek territory for all those who in recent years have been flooding our country. It should also be pointed out that it is unknown from whom and how this sovereign, as mentioned, is financed. And not all of this is enough, but you provide, you ensure for this Order privileges and immunities enjoyed by foreign diplomatic missions. Is it possible when you yourself recognise that it is not a party to the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations? However, this does not prevent you from granting such privileges. That's not just us. The Scientific Service of the Parliament in its report on the draft law states, inter alia: "It would be appropriate, in the interests of legal certainty, to clarify the privileges and immunities which they identify in this respect and which the diplomatic delegation of the Order enjoys." We cannot just give diplomatic hospitality and privileges. And what's gonna happen? It will act as an NGO sovereign in our country, where its members will have diplomatic immunity and privileges, so uncontrolled action. These are not just serious issues. They may lead, you know, to dangerous, if not uncontrolled situations. We will also point out something else. Our country has been plagued by an economic crisis for so many years. For so many years Greek citizens have suffered, sacrificed, and now they are increasingly having trouble buying basic foods, finding a decent job, we have hungered Greeks, you know that. Wasn't the Order interested in taking humanitarian aid all these years? Once again, then, we have the assurance that the policies are not prioritised by the Greeks. Do what you can to offer everyone other than the Greek people. Obviously, we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr. George Logiadis, Special Buyer from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the draft law on the establishment of an exchange of financial communications Agreement on diplomatic relations between the Hellenic Republic and the Sovereign Order of Saint John, Rhodes and Malta. This Sovereign Order is subject to international legislation. It comes from the Ioannite Knights an organization founded in the 11th century in Jerusalem as a hospital by the Amalfites, mainly merchants, to care for the poor and sick pilgrims of the Holy Land at that time. But after the conquest of Jerusalem in 1099 during the First Crusade, this hospital changed to a religious order of the Roman Catholic Church. When Christians also lost Jerusalem, the Order worked in Rhodes from 1310 to 1523 and then in Malta from 1530 to 1798, to which he was Sovereign. (ED) The existence of this state was terminated by Napoleon Bonaparte, but the Order remained and survived until now in its form. Today it is a state entity and is recognised by the UN, as it has an observer position in the United Nations. The Order numberes many thousands of members and permanent volunteers and very large medical staff. All of these work on a daily basis for the care of the elderly, refugees, the most deprived, homeless, as well as children. Among the caring people are lepers and sufferers of incurable diseases around the world, without distinction, race or religion. Also, through the Master International Corps helps internationally victims of natural disasters, epidemics and armed conflicts. The Order has two seats: The Palazzo Malta on Via dei Condotti street in number 68, where the Great Magistros resides and the Government is based, and Villa Malta on the Aventino Hill, where the Embassy of the Order is located in Vatican and the Embassy in Italy. However, unlike the Holy See that has sovereignty over the Vatican, the dominant Order of Malta has no territorial sovereignty since it lost the island of Malta in 1798, with the exception of the above-mentioned properties in Italy. The United Nations does not recognise the Order as a Member State, but as an observer in the General Assembly. He has not been identified and given any telecommunications code, not even a password on the Internet, such as com or uk and so on, while the Vatican has its own va. The Order of Malta has diplomatic relations with a hundred and three states, many of which have as dominant religion the Roman Catholic, as well as other five countries, as well as international organisations such as the European Union and the International Red Cross. The fact that he claims sovereignty, also apparent from the fact that he issues passports, driving licences, registration plates, stamps and coins. This Convention also concludes diplomatic relations with our country. We in Merra25 are voting in favour of this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Scandalides from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to ratify two private communications between the Embassy of the Hellenic Republic in Rome and the Chancellor of the sovereign Military Order of Saint John, the Jerusalem of Rhodes and Malta. These private communications agreed to establish diplomatic relations between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign Military Order of St. John. In addition, we are dominating the financial communication of Chancellor Military Hospital containing the unilateral declaration regarding the lack of property rights in the territory of the Hellenic Republic. The charitable work of the Order, which is a state entity and is recognized by the UN as an observer in the United Nations, is well known. Its history and contact with the Greek area, through Rhodes and the footprint that he left throughout this process historically and to date is one of the basic elements that make Rhodes a monument of global heritage. The Order offers medical and humanitarian assistance all over the world, through a permanent and multiplier network of officials and volunteers, who work for the care of the elderly, refugees, the most deprived, homeless and children. It is no coincidence that the Order today has diplomatic relations with six different countries, including Spain, Russia and the United States. It is, of course, a special regime. A regime that most has a charity and a character based mainly on the Roman Catholic Church is based on an initiative taken by this Church - once again - and certainly has a specific work that no one can ignore. Unfortunately, we are living at a time when millions of people around the world are affected by anthropogenic or natural disasters. Humanitarian aid to address the basic needs of affected populations is therefore necessary and necessary. In our country, Greece, which has been firmly faced with the great challenge of the refugee problem in recent years, we are well aware of the importance of sustainable progress in humanitarian aid, but also of extending this solidarity network to tackle the crisis. With this ratification, we are essentially moving towards the recognition of the presence of the Order in Greece, through its mission of diplomatic representatives. Of course, in this way, it is clear that we are also facilitating the fulfilment of its activities to provide humanitarian aid and assistance on the Greek territory. The ratification of these financial communications will directly lead to the upgrading of the bilateral relations between Greece and the Order, as it meets a consistent demand from the Order to Greece for diplomatic relations and the exchange of diplomatic delegations. I would like here, Mr President, to point out the point made by the Scientific Council of the Parliament, which says that, given the wide-ranging report of privileges and immunities enjoyed by diplomatic missions and their staff, it is questionable whether it might be appropriate, for reasons of legal certainty, to clarify the privileges and immunities of the diplomatic delegation. And I think the government here should have a reason to give much more specific character to what the Scientific Council of Parliament says. In conclusion, we believe that the ratification of the planned financial communications will strengthen the cooperation between Greece and the Order in the field of humanitarian action, which cannot allow us to vote against. Obviously we are voting in favour of this because it will have a positive footprint for our country. And we are obviously positive about this sanction, with the point that we have made earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. We are now entering the list of speakers, with Mr Vassilis Ypsilant from New Democracy first speaking. Come on, Mr. Highlands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our country enters into diplomatic relations with the sovereign Military Hospital Order of St. John the Jerusalemians of Rhodes and Malta. This is how we get law the exchange of financial communications, signatures in Rome in January 2018. An agreement aimed at concluding exactly diplomatic relations and exchanging diplomatic representatives at the level of ambassadors or proxy ministers between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign Military Order of Saint John, Rhodes and Malta. The statement provided in July 2021 by Chancellor Chancellor of the Order to the Embassy of our country in the Vatican, confirming the existence of property rights in the territory of the Hellenic Republic and the non-existence in the future of any claim against our country, without prejudice to the right of the Order to acquire real estate in Greece in the future and to protect it by any legal means, according to the particular conditions laid down. Furthermore, the Order enjoys the usual privileges and immunities enjoyed by foreign diplomatic missions in Greece. They shall be invoked on the basis of the proposed provisions, where appropriate, for the sending of an Ambassador, a Minister of State, in Rome, to represent the Hellenic Republic and to cover the costs involved. This expenditure depends on the facts. According to the Ministry responsible, this representation will be undertaken at the same time as accredited by our country's already operating embassy in Rome. Also, the granting of diplomatic privileges and immunities to members and staff of the Order's mission in our country. As his full name shows, the ruling Military Order of Saint John, Jerusalem, Rhodes and Malta, came from the crusaders of Ioannite knights in 1099. When Christians lost Jerusalem, the Order operated from Rhodes for about two hundred, two centuries, from 1310 to 1523 and then in Malta, where it was a sovereign state, and whose existence was terminated during Napoleon’s time. However, as a Battalion it has remained and survived until today, which is today recognised as a state entity, recognised by the United Nations as an observer in the United Nations and based in Rome. It consists of thirteen and a half thousand members and priests, eighty thousand permanent volunteers and twenty-five thousand employees, most of whom work just in a social work, either in the health sector, or in the protection of the most deprived and intimidated in the world. It already has diplomatic relations with six countries in the world, including, of course, the United States and Russia. The historical reduction in the operation of the Order with my special homeland and the capital of the Dodecanese, Rhodes, creates particular expectations of close cooperation with this in the areas that it operates. I would like to note that Rhodes has already been founded by the activities of the Order on the part of the Order, as has also been recorded in their intention of further cooperation. With all these considerations and given that our country opens up its diplomatic relations with a part which, historically and with the dynamics of the events, can also support our country's positions in a dynamic way, I declare, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that I am voting in favour of the bill under discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Highlands. Mr Ioannis Pappas from New Democracy has the floor, with whom we will be connected via webex. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the ratification of the interchange of financial communications of an agreement on diplomatic relations between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign Military Order of Saint John, the Jerusalem of Rhodes and Malta is a remarkable moment for Greece with particular noteworthiness. The reasons are both historical and.... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). The ties that unite the Military Hospital Order of St.John Jerusalem of Rhodes and Malta with my special homeland and capital of the Dodecanese, the island of Rhodes, arrive in the 14th century and especially in 1310 when the Order left Jerusalem and until 1523 operated in Rhodes by giving it the name "The Island of the Knights". The presence of the Order has left an indelible print on the island, which is evidenced by the architecture itself, the cavalry buildings, the Castle, the Palace of the Great Magistros, the walls, as we old town, the jewel of our island. All these constructions and inventions compose an impressive, I would say, and original for Greek portrait data, which causes the admiration to millions of visitors every year on our island. As a result, the cavalry buildings are to be and have evolved into a unique tourist destination with great interest for our country, for Greece. On a diplomatic level, the ratification proves that Greece can and has an extroverted foreign policy in the Eastern Mediterranean, taking advantage of its long history and the invisible thread linking Jerusalem to Greece, Malta and Italy for many centuries. The sovereign Military Order of Saint John, Jerusalem, Rhodes and Malta has so far diplomatic relations with a hundred and three states, many of which do not have the Roman Catholic religion as a dominant, as well as international organisations such as the European Union and the International Red Cross. One of the most important points of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the provision of humanitarian aid and assistance to Greece. Through the development of bilateral relations between the Order and Greece, humanitarian action is possible, which was also a constant request from the first, who is satisfied, how much more so since the mission of the Order is mainly humanitarian and in the preamble to the Agreement, his long-term contribution to humanitarian aid is expressly recognised and the desire of the parties to facilitate the fulfilment of this mission is stated. The need for aid and cooperation is becoming increasingly evident in recent years and agreements such as this one, are steps towards establishing a climate of cooperation in the Eastern Mediterranean in full contrast to the turmoil caused by neighbour Turkey. Sanctions such as today show in practice that Greece is an extroverting country that constantly strengthens its role as a pillar of stability in the Eastern Mediterranean. At the same time, it pays tribute to long history, which is a large part of European history, not under the terms of an unequal pastology, but with respect for our past and history, with a look at the present and thought in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Will the parliamentary representatives take the floor? Oh, no. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. To supplement the position of fellow Members who presented the historic path of relations and the course of the Military Hospital Order of Saint John, the Jerusalemians of Rhodes and Malta, I think I want to be placed in two things. First of all, the importance of this recognition and of the time of recognition. The importance of recognition is, I think, self-proof by the fact that more than a hundred countries have recognized this dominant Order, which may be the greatest power of volunteering in Italy after the Red Cross. It lists tens of thousands of volunteers, who are mainly involved in civil protection issues. The majority of Italian regions have given the Order and the powers of the dominant role in dealing with natural disasters. And we know that Italy is one of the countries that have the same profile as Greece in the natural disasters that we face, from earthquakes, forest fires and, of course, floods due to climate change. So there's an increased know-how. Secondly, it is a force that supports national positions where we need them. I would like to submit to the Minutes the letter sent to us by the Order on 30 July 2020, dated 22 July 2020, which concerns the statement and position of the Order in relation to the conversion of Saint Sofia from museum to mosque. It is important that there are such voices in the country's diplomatic patronage that have a strong grid of cooperation and humanitarian aid with third countries that come and condemn such actions that offend the Greek people, offend Orthodox Christians and offend the historic heritage of Constantinople itself. I'll testify for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, this due and delayed recognition is done in this way by means of the draft law and not by means of a simple exchange of financial communications, precisely because of the special status to which we all recognise that this is a bit strange. How can a Order that has no territory, currency, participation in the international contractual framework, and so on? That is why we come and discuss it within the framework of this bill and we express the political will of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people to recognise this Sovereign Order, which is also interconnected with Greece, due to the presence of the Knights of Saint John during their retreat from Jerusalem to Rhodes, in which they remained for over two hundred years and resisted the raids of the Mohammedan conquerors. Then, following the occupation of Rhodes by the Mohammedans, they were transferred to Malta. To reach this point, the following actions were needed: The first action was the exchange of financial communications by the previous government. And it was right by the previous government, due and retarded, as I said. However, the question was raised of the possible claim - due to the history of Mr Scandalides, you know it best as Dodecanese and Mr Ypsilantis who was here and Mr Papapas, who spoke - of the apparent and potential relationship that he could have with our country at the level of the property claim. It was something we had to enshrine. For this reason, and re-exchanged financial communications, which ensure that there is no case on the part of the Order for such property to be claimed in Greece, in which historical rights would be lost. I say this because it does not apply, for example, to Malta. In Malta, the Order has property, he has not said he has no property, he has not stopped claiming property and, of course, manages property on the island of Malta, and very important - I would say to you - since an important part of the castle of Malta belongs to the Knights Order. I would therefore like - because the issue of property rights has again been raised - to read out the exact copy of the financial communication, because we do not want it to remain in Parliament's minutes for the future reader of any kind of doubt. The question was raised that the explanation given by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, particularly on the part of the Communist Party of Greece, is not sufficient. I read in the private communication of July 29, 2021: The Sovereign Military Order of Saint John the Jerusalems of Rhodes and Malta states that it has no property rights in the territory of the Hellenic Republic and confirms that it has never maintained or created any claims against the Hellenic Republic, including any other legal person governed by public law, municipality, state entity, service, ecclesiastical community, etc., regarding real estate in the Hellenic Republic. The above do not prejudice the right of the Sovereign Order to acquire real estate in Greece in the future and to make use of every legal instrument provided for by the Greek legislation of the Hellenic Republic for its protection. I think it is not clearer than that, so any doubt is based on this position I think it is unnecessary. With regard to the report by the Scientific Office, I would like to say, Mr President, that I would also like to draw the attention of the authors here - and I would like to say that I am accepting the first paragraph of the third paragraph of the report on the second article of the Legal Service. What does that say? It says that we need to change the wording "reveals the usual privileges and immunities enjoyed in Greece by foreign diplomatic missions" and should be replaced - the Legal Service says - by the most peculiar wording "deals with the usual privileges and immunities enjoyed by Greece by foreign diplomatic missions". Some people think that it's just a better primary school than the second one. I think the second does better to give the point and that is why I accept the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u121	Minister, is this a legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u122	Yeah, it's a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u123	Check it out, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u124	It is in the text of the Report of the Scientific Agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u125	Good. Is that what you want to say? It will be submitted for the rapporteurs to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u126	He'll be filed. I announced it now. The rapporteur, too, pointed out to me that I should be able to accept it. With regard to the privileges to be enjoyed by diplomatic missions, it is true that diplomatic missions enjoy specific privileges, but which are expanded or limited, in terms of reciprocity. So in matters where there is no reciprocity, there is a lot of difficulty with the Greek administration. These are administrative acts. A general framework is recognised and I think that if and if there is a need to appoint a representative of the Order in Greece as a diplomatic association or ambassador, then the terms of reciprocity on which the privileges are based will be determined by the Greek office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by the customs office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is responsible for this, the terms of reciprocity on which the privileges are based and the usual procedure will be attributed. I don't think he needs anything else. In conclusion, I would like to say that this Crisis is taking place today in the face of a very important visit. The official visit of the Pope of Rome and pre-determined by the Catholic Church, which takes place in Greece - after twenty years of official visit to the Pope of Rome in Greece, is an important opportunity to highlight the Christian ties which link us, to highlight the role of the Vatican in humanitarian matters, but, of course, to deepen the conscience that here, in Greece, on this side of the Mediterranean, we defend Christian values and defend them within the framework of international law, to respect human rights, to respect human rights and to make the Greek people, as well as the Greek Government and all the institutions of the Greek Government, anything that is possible to protect these rights, unlike neighbours, who often even exploit weak people, such as refugees and immigrants, for the purpose of pursuing political purposes. That is why it is important to show that the framework of the relations that we want to have and build with the Vatican is also a multi-level framework. The dominant Maltese battalion is an agency directly linked to the Vatican, and that is why I consider ratification by the Greek Parliament to be extremely timely and I thank the overwhelming majority of the parties for their unsatisfactory support in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too, Minister. From what I heard, the legal improvement was simple, I don't think you want any remarks. It doesn't show that the text is changing. Does anyone want the floor? Nobody. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs "To ratify the exchange of financial communications Agreement on diplomatic relations between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign Military Order of Saint John, the Jerusalem of Rhodes and Malta and the declaration contained in the financial communication of the Chancellor of the sovereign Military Order of Saint John, the Jerusalem of Rhodes and Malta." We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u128	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u129	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: For the ratification... between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign Military Order of St. John the Jerusalem of Rhodes and Malta... a solemn declaration The principle of openness and openness must be applied in all Member States. N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: YES Article 1 1 FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: YES Article 2, as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: YES Cereals Article BY SURVEILLANCE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: YES Total FINANCIAL AFFAIRS N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: YES
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u130	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs "In order to ratify the exchange of financial communications Agreement on diplomatic relations between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign Military Order of Saint John, the Jerusalem and Malta, and the private communication contained in the Chancellor of the sovereign Military Hospital Order of Saint John, the Jerusalem and Malta, a unilateral declaration was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u132	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-02-S1-commons.u133	With the consent of the House at 12: 28 the sitting is closed tomorrow 3 December 2021 at 09.00 on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
