ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Good month! [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 26-2-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACULAR Sessions, Friday 26 February 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Organization and functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Council of the Greek Republic, regulation of issues of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid and other provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Koutnatzis, informs the House that the topical questions to be discussed today are as follows: Questions Nos 446/17-2-2021 and 462/22-2-2021 will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Constantine Skreka. Question No 473/22-2-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. Question No 472/22-2-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Paciotakis. Question No 2991/428/30-12-20 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Dollakis. Questions Nos 466/22-2-2021 and 470/22-2-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Vassiliou Kontozamanis. Questions Nos 459/22-2-2021 and 467/22-2-2021 and Question No 3138/440/11-1-2021 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas. Questions Nos 447/18-2-2021 and 46/22-2-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vessiropoulos. Questions Nos 445/16-2-2021 and 464/22-2-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Question No 471/22-2-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Question No 458/22-2-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalia. Question No 463/22-2-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta McPei. Question No 465/22-2-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. Questions Nos 450/18-2-2021 and 455/22-2-2021 and Questions Nos 2971/29-12-2020 and 2984/30-12-2020 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Question No 469/22-2-2021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aegeanakis. Question No 2956/28-12/2020 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, Mr. George Stylion. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin with the fifth under No 2991/428/30-12-20 question and request the submission of documents in the circle of petitions and questions by MP B' West Attica - Mr George Tsipras' Progressive Alliance to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Special attention to strengthening and reducing operations, professionals and scientists in Western Attica after the universal lockdown. Just 3% of the firms in the region have been strengthened by the Guarantee Fund and the entrepreneurship fund (TEIFI) 2 to date." Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for two minutes. Because of Parliament's work in the last few days, parliamentary control has a great deal of weight today, so I would ask us all to observe the times. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I'll keep the time. Mr President, the questions relate to the need to strengthen Western Attica. Let me point out that twice the Minister of Development, Mr Georgiadis, has made statements, in the first days of January and February, on the need for exceptional special support for Western Attica and Western Macedonia for the reasons of the strict lockdown. To date, what has been done is unfortunately very little. From the answers we have received from TEPIX II and the guarantee, which unfortunately does not cover all the questions, it is clear that only 2.72% of the firms have been strengthened or at the level of turnover of about 3.5% and a special purpose for aid has only received four and a half thousand self-employed people. There are bodies and municipalities that have submitted specific requests. I would like to point out the question as follows: the problem is not the strict lockdown so much. Obviously, this has made things worse. The problem is the specificity of the Western Attica. I will only tell you two facts to be understood, which I imagine you know or should know. When unemployment was launched in the years 2010-2015, around 27% in Greece, the corresponding figures were for Aspropyrgos 52%, in the Grand 51%, in the Valley 43%, in Elefsina 42%. This is about unemployment. The GDP in 2009-2014, while falling about 22% in Greece as a whole, in West Attica we had a 36% fall. In other words, if we measure it either as GDP or as unemployment, the effects of the economic recession and crisis in the West Attica because of its specific nature - it is an industrial area and logistics - are multiple from the rest of Greece. This means that it needs special support, and now, so that the damage is not great, and then even when the quarantine ends, that the economy can restart and support the local economy from a second major disaster after the memorial era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u3	Mr Tsipras, thank you for keeping time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u4	I thank the honourable Member for the question. The reality is that this particular crisis is not a crisis that primarily concerns industry. This is known from the general economic data and this results in a much heavier impact when the economy is open or relatively open to the areas that are based on services. It is a major crisis of services: Focusing, retailing, tourism, transport, services, which have mainly borne the heavy burden of the crisis. As far as the Western Attica is concerned, there is evidence that has helped me. I have here, for example, the evidence of the Ministry of Labour, which I will submit to the Minutes. I will not tire you with their analytical reading. There's no time, anyway. However, the important thing is that the measures we use are adapted so that, when an area has much greater loss of turnover, there is a proportionate aid based on this loss. The main measure that concerns small and medium-sized enterprises is not the guarantee and TPIX, for the simple reason that small and medium-sized enterprises to a large extent, as we all know, do not have a bank profile and there was no time to obtain it. I repeat that small and medium-sized enterprises, for reasons that we all know, when the crisis started, did not have a banking profile. This concerns many times the very small size, sometimes the debts they had accumulated in the crisis and mainly the fact that their vast majority are individual companies, which by their very nature are very difficult to obtain a banking profile. That is why we used the repayable advance, which for the whole of Attica - I do not yet have the data for the western one, but I will also come back with it - covered a hundred forty-five thousand businesses and gave about 2.5 billion euros by 5. It is a huge sum for small and medium-sized enterprises. The key is that the greater the reduction you had, the more money you received, commensurate with the reduction of the turnover and the percentage of profit you had and the margins. Suspension, too, was a completely plastic tool, and if anyone had a shut-down operation, he could and can get the employees 100% suspended. Therefore, our measures are designed to adapt to the stricter lockdowns, giving them much greater support. As far as business closure is concerned, we currently have a deferral of decisions. We don't have more businesses that have been closed down. ELSTAT's figures show a smaller number of enterprises, not because they have not been affected - it is obvious that they have been affected - but because they have deferred their decisions. I think it is good that they have deferred their decisions, because the worst thing a business can do is to make a decision to close down during the crisis, and there is more general uncertainty about what will happen in the future. Our conviction is that, with the opening of the economy, I hope, from 16 March - we all hope, I believe, that in the Chamber - consumption can recover to a greater degree than in a normal period, and then we will see what other additional things we need to do to keep businesses and jobs sustainable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. One thing I want to tell you, Mr. Dog, is this. You say that the burden is on services, which is right. It is also true, however, that it has a multitude of impact on the local economy of Western Attica, the pan-Hellenic recession and you will see it this time too. In other words, it will have a multiple impact on unemployment and on GDP, because the production and economy of the West Attica cannot serve all the rest of Greece and the Lefkanopedia. But, in that respect, a short psalm of each other! Mr Georgiadis spoke of ad hoc financial instruments. This is something different from what you are saying now, that depending on the fall of the cigarette you have planned the aid. That's not ad hoc. The ad hoc that Mr Georgiadis spoke about, invoking the strict lockdown, is that specific measures will be taken for the West Attica. And there are such measures to be taken for the West Attica, namely, additional aid to which regions, especially if what I am saying is true and which will, unfortunately, be confirmed very soon, that the consequences in this region will be far greater than others and that we are at risk of social explosions. There are already some prelude to that. As there is a question of financing, where the rates are very low, there is a question of who has received a repayable advance and how many of them will become a returnee. We did not see any evidence at all, but the picture we have is not good at all. In other words, a very small part of the self-employed has been covered. I told you the number that the undersecretary gave us is only four and a half thousand. It's a tragicly small number for the self-employed in the West Attica. The last thing is that there is a suspension of fixed debts and debts. What about debts, banks or taxation? If there are special measures for Western Attica, as for western Macedonia, they should take that form. I don't see any other form they can take. Otherwise, there are no special measures for the West Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u8	As far as what Mr Georgiadis said is concerned, he is obviously referring to measures that can be taken by the NRP, which are a regional programme and which I will not go into, because it is not my responsibility. The Ministry of Finance applies general measures and I can tell you the importance of these general measures in this area as well. As far as the possibility is concerned, what will happen in terms of unemployment and what will happen in terms of commitments remains to be done with a special arrangement for returnee 1, 2, 3, which we have not presented. It remains to be implemented the programme of the fixed costs of enterprises, which has also not been presented in its entirety. All these programs are plastic, that is, they go and help much more where there is a bigger blow. In particular, the next measures will be aimed more at cases - and I am not telling the regions - where there is a more significant reduction in turnover. Why am I saying that? Because at this stage - throughout the pandemic, but now - we have noticed that we can have businesses that go well in the pandemic, for whatever reason and regardless of the CAR and bad businesses. That is why we have chosen the individual approach. Because the money we have is finite, the crisis has, unfortunately, lasted very much, its economic side has a very important financial impact. By the end of the year, we estimate on a cash basis that cost us EUR 26 billion and continue this blow per week, while lockdowns are extended. We must, as I have said many times, get through both the crisis and the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the discussion of the fourth under No 467/22-2-2021 topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki, on the subject: "The immediate and full compensation of the floods and the restoration of damages in the areas of the Municipality of Hersonissos Heraklion Crete". The Deputy Minister of Interior will respond, Mr. Stelios Petsas. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, at the beginning of November 2020, the inhabitants of the regions of Gurnon - Gouveon - Ascension - Malion, as a whole, as in other areas of Crete, were faced with major catastrophic flooding. They were incalculable, while human lives were at stake. I tell you from personal experience, with relatives, who, thanks to the self-sacrifice of the Fire Corps and the residents in the Malian region, have saved these people. Nevertheless, homes, houses, shops, cars, fields, agricultural properties, agricultural equipment, livestock, livestock were destroyed, naturally leading to a tragic situation in hundreds of people's families. Of course, damage to the provincial and rural road network, on the North Axis, was also incalculable on bridges. It turned out that the state mechanism once again was inadequate, unprepared and uncoordinated. The assurances of a government, local and regional government, of direct and full compensation for flood damages, compensation for damages and the implementation of flood plans are, in practice, proving to be waste. It's been over three, and a half months. Up to now, only two hundred forty-forty-one applicants have been enlisted to compensate for, namely, 600 euros. The compensation of up to EUR 6 000 has not yet been paid. Apart from the world that was excluded because of the unfair conditions and conditions, the second, country houses and some affected parts of them, such as underground, surrounding areas, etc. are left outside. In addition, the compensation procedure, as for farmers, for the eight hundred applications made by the affected undertakings, has not yet been completed. At the same time, the question of debt relief for electricity, water, telephone, rent, municipal charges, remains in the air. Moreover, the sloppiness and anarchy in interventions is gigantic after the floods. All the previous days, this time we are talking about, they are carried out under the responsibility of the municipality, with the tolerance of the region and ignorance from the port, works for the settlement of the bed of Guuvian and of the Gurniotis river, with the arbitrary removals of road sections in front of the people's homes, without the necessary study. They dig the river beds up to seven meters deep, "true" right and left, destroying the road, separating the houses from the river. They take bazaars and stones from one river, the Gouvian, and take them to the other, the Gurniotian river, they place them on the estuary of the river, the cavalry, they place in the sea, a thick situation, in ignorance of the region, in ignorance of the Port House, without permission from anywhere. Who gives the orders? What is the feasibility and why does the authorities in the region, the police and the port do not intervene to stop this crime? It turns out once again that with responsibility over time for all governments and regional and local authorities, people's needs are being set out in the face of these major problems. For all this, Mr Minister, we are asking you what urgent action the government will take, so that - yesterday - all the people affected will be financially supported by the state and fully compensated for all their destruction, without bureaucracy, astronomical and excuses, and finally, the damage recovery works must be speeded up and the necessary flooding in the areas of the Municipality of Hersonissos Heraklion Crete must be built with the necessary state funding. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much for the question, which gives me the opportunity to say once again that natural disasters occurred, occur and will continue to happen. It is important that the organized state prepares and reacts to address the disasters that they leave behind. We have also shown in the case of 'Janu', which has hit many regions of our country, but especially western Thessaly, but also in the case of the earthquakes in Samos and in the case of the recent flooding phenomena in Evros, that we respond quickly. In particular, on the issues you are asking me, on social aid granted by the Ministry of the Interior - and here I am referring to two issues - the allowances of EUR 600 granted as first-life expenses to those affected and their residence cannot be inhabited, but also the EUR 6 000 for the restoration of the building - I can assure you that, when such requests are submitted to the Ministry, together with the necessary results from the committee responsible for recording losses, they are met as a priority. In this respect, in the context of meeting the first needs of the affected citizens from the floods in November, the Municipality of Hersonissos has been subsidised until now with the sum of EUR 500 000, based on the data of the first estimate sent by the municipality. I stress this, that it was done on the basis of the first assessment, as the normal procedure for compensation means a full record of the damages from the workshops and the relevant municipal committees and a mission of the supporting documents to the Ministry of the Interior, so that then the money is disbursed to the municipalities. However, due to the great catastrophe, we have proceeded with the payment of these first money on the basis of the first estimate. As far as the compensation for households is concerned, there has not yet been a request to the Ministry of the Interior, together with the findings of the committee responsible for recording damages, as required. I promise that, once this request has been made by the Municipality of Hersonissos to the Ministry, the money that the affected citizens need will immediately be taken from the Ministry of the Interior. Now, with regard to the wider issue of state funding for the restoration of damage to infrastructure and the construction of flooding projects in the area of the Municipality of Hersonissos, I would firstly mention what sources of funding are available from the Ministry of Interior. First, in order to cover and address damage and disasters caused specifically by the floods in November 2020, the Municipality of Hersonissos was awarded, upon a request sent, with the sum of EUR 3 million from the Ministry of Interior's Public Investment Program. Secondly, from the CAR in 2021 it is planned to allocate to the Municipality of Hersonissos the sum of EUR 383.880 to cover the costs of carrying out projects and investment activities. And thirdly, under the ‘Philos II’ programme, the municipality was awarded a grant of EUR 371,500 for the implementation of projects. I note, of course, as you have mentioned in your question, that there are other sources of funding for flood protection, such as from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and from the projects of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for your dentistry as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u14	Minister, it really gives rise to the impression of how you started your place: Disasters have been done, done and done? I think this is a very big blow from your side and very macabre I would say. It is a very bad omen that you are prescribing new flood disasters against citizens, when at the same time the government, the government, should take preventive measures to deal with these phenomena, which seem to have little to do with you, to take effective measures to address these phenomena. Secondly, you say that you are indebted to the priority. Well, I'm telling you, people haven't got almost anything. What priority? Family of which the house was destroyed, homes, everything, again, has not taken a penny, not a single cent. So how do you pay priority? The companies that have been destroyed there themselves. They haven't got a penny either. And it is well known that this ball of the transfer of responsibilities: "It is not the government's fault, it is the municipality that has not sent us the documents." the municipality said: "It is not our fault, it is the inconsistency of the government." The same happens all these years for all cases. We discussed this here in a timely debate on 23 November, i.e. after the disasters in the same region, not with you, of course, but with Mr Theodorikos at that time. Reassurances without opposition, honestly I'm talking to you. He was then telling us that the reaction of the state mechanism was immediate and coordinated. I read to you what he said at the time: He arrived at a step in Crete headed by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Livanios, two Deputys, Kefaloyannis and Aygeakis, the President of ELGA, other members of the state mechanism. Cousin'. And what did they do? They came, saw and came, that's what they did. The Minister had then said that he had signed 11 million euros to restore infrastructure. You said it yourself. He would've given that to the municipality and promised he'd also pay compensation for the constructions. He also said that the Ministry of Finance, Mr Stavros and Mr Besiropoulos, would have arranged to suspend tax debts. Well, the picture at the moment, at the teleconferencing we had with the mayor of Hersonissos is as follows: About eight hundred claims for compensation have only been received for forty-one, their allowances have been enacted. Secondly, 6,000 euros is a summer night dream, besides being a drop in the ocean. So this is where we now say that property and property have been destroyed, what 6,000 euros? We're not talking about it. Also, the second residence is not compensated. Why? Why is the second residence not compensated? Whose fault was the second home destroyed? The first, the second, the entire property of the people. Why don't you compensate them? Thirdly, the devices have not been compensated. Where were the household appliances compensated? Some private shopkeepers were found who volunteered for free some home appliances to some people who were destroyed. Fourthly, so far from the EUR 11 million that Mr Theodorikos said, 3 million was allocated for rehabilitation to the Municipality of Hersonissos. The four technical notes sent by the municipality to the Ministry touch 30m euros. And if we want to talk objectively about all the disasters, they exceed EUR 170 to EUR 180 million. I'm not talking about it. I am not speaking for an expert to say, but I am carrying what the municipality appreciates. I am transferring the real picture that exists in this area. Well, let's get this straight. In Crete - and all over Greece apparently - there has never been an integrated anti-military protection plan, as well as anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism. And we're talking about that in Crete there have been numerous disasters, in 2016, in 2017, in 2019, in 2020, from Chania to Sitia. And now we've been talking bridges, provincial roads, the North Axis, unconscious for years, catastrophes big, streams, saints and go by saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u15	Finish it, please. You've spoken eight and a half minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. Watch out, because we've denounced them. I personally have called the district manager, the district manager, the portlor for the arbitrariness that occurs in these rivers, with balms in the saints, within the sea, etc. You have to take care of yourself. We'll have the same problems again. There's been a misery. We'll have new disasters and possible victims in the area.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u17	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u18	Therefore, you will need to take immediate measures, first of all, for the economic restoration of these people after three - four months. Second, give me money. They are crumbs that you have announced today, and they are crumbs in front of the real needs that exist to materialise in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I don't understand. Aren't we going to recognize reality? Aren't there any disasters? The word 'thembreath' may not tell you anything, but it says in the centuries. There is therefore a disaster. The point is how we deal with them. On the subject you are talking about you have developed many actions concerning a number of co-responsible ministries. I reply to you as the Deputy Minister for the Interior in charge of self-government. You want to give money without technical notes? You want to do something illegal? We did everything we could with the first assessment and we gave the money we could. We are constantly working together with the municipality to do what we need to do. With regard to the wider anti-flood protection projects and the others you have raised, I know very well that there is also consultation with the regional director, with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and with the recent visits that the regional director has had and also with the teleconferences which we have had in recent years. However, they are issues which are dealt with by other ministries and not by the Ministry of the Interior. So what I have to say is that once we have the technical cards, we will immediately proceed to the payment of compensation for construction costs. With regard to other issues related to anti-military planning and these projects, it is a broader issue of government policy, which is dealt with in cooperation with the other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister, and especially for keeping time. Next is the tenth under No. 459/22-2-2021 topical question of the second-round question of the Larissa Parliamentary Movement of Change Mr. Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “The lawfulness of direct assignments by the local government (OTAs), elephant COVID, peaks”. The Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Stelios Petsas, will reply to her as well. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the last few days direct assignments from grade I and grade II are constantly revealed by the legal persons, with the pretext of the need for mercy COVID, the needs arising from COVID. Needs arise from COVID to overcome the pandemic, but when it is overcome, instead of the pandemic, every limit of reason, morality and reason, then both your ministry and you, Minister, I imagine you want - not only must - to intervene. And you need to, and you want to. We collect data from all over Greece and I'm really telling you that at primary and secondary OTAs we have various phenomena in many cases. In other cases we have excellent management, to say the glowing cases that exist, and in other cases we really wonder how it is possible for the system that you brought and you have actually been able to tolerate such procedures. You know very well that in the Attica region a huge issue has been created first. You know and I have asked you a question since 1 February - it is still unanswered - about recruitment in the Attica region. This is four hundred six intakes in a non-transparent manner. Then the revelations about rapid test, about sanitary matter, headed by all one million euros, two hundred and thirty-four, three hundred and it is not assembled. And of course, Minister, the tenders bring the smell of conciliation very strongly, since not only are they not carried out under an open tender procedure, but only two - three companies are invited to negotiate. And what is really happening to all of us is that at a price of EUR 9,26 per piece for the hundreds of seven thousand tests, at the same competition the same company appears in the region of Central Macedonia, proposes EUR 7,98 and finally qualified another company that provided the rapid test at the price of EUR 3,8. That's not what we're talking about. Citizens see them. The media reveals them. In the Minutes, please too much with the statements all on the channels and on the reports. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Evangelia Liakoulis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we ask, Minister: TATS I and II do not concern your government? In fact, when you're the craftsmen, you're the pioneers, not the craftsmen! - that you set the framework to serve the needs of the pandemic, do you think that this framework is correct? Do you think you should change it? Do you think you should intervene? Do you finally think that it should continue to cause such a thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you too, Mrs. Liikali. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Since the outbreak of the coronary pandemic with its undeniably very negative consequences at all levels, the government has constantly taken measures to save human life, support local government with financial and institutional support and, of course, support for the local economy. Urgent provisions for the operation of municipalities and regions have been adopted in this context. Among other things, arrangements have been made for the supply of materials and services related to the treatment of pandemic, as well as for the recruitment of emergency personnel. I mention, for example, the legislative act of 11 March 2020. Article 10 provides for the possibility for municipalities and regions to award public contracts by recourse to the negotiation procedure without prior publication for the supply of material and services related to the treatment of the pandemic. So we're talking about negotiation, not about direct assignment. The negotiation process without prior publication is nothing new. It wasn't institutionalised now. It is provided for in the Public Procurement Act, in particular Article 32 of Law 4412/2016, which explicitly provides for the possibility for the contracting authority to refer to the negotiation procedure without prior publication where it is not possible to comply with the time limits laid down in the other competitive procedures. Now, with regard to the recruitment of temporary staff, the Ministry of the Interior, taking into account the exceptional circumstances created by the coronary, proceeded to the adoption of provisions allowing their municipalities, regions and legal persons to recruit medical, nursing and other staff by decision of the Economic Commission, with the duration of the contract to be fixed for up to eight months. The aim is once again that self-government bodies, together with the state mechanism, contribute to facilitating and serving the increased needs of citizens as a result of the pandemic. However, I should like to point out here that this procedure of recruitment of temporary staff when emergencies arise has not been foreseen for the first time. It is provided for in Article 20 of Law 2190/1994. It is therefore a process which has been in place for the direct service to be provided with the necessary staff. Now, for the rest of the matter you have said about self-government action, I just want to clarify that the Ministry of Interior does not give orders to the municipalities and regions. Local government is an independent institution and the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the regulatory framework governing local government agencies. The administrative and financial autonomy of local government bodies is regulated. With regard to the issues you raise about the procedures for the supply of health material and the recruitment of temporary staff from the Region of Attica, I can tell you that there are control procedures through the Court of Auditors for the legality of contracts awards and the AACC to assist the conditions for recruitment of temporary staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u25	Mrs Liikali, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have raised issues now. That is why I wanted to talk to you today about direct assignments. But you want to take this further. You have even referred to the Economic Committees. Because, before I came to Parliament, I sat in for twenty-five years, Minister, and I tell you with great respect - in local government, I am very well aware of how it works and I know what framework the government is giving it. So don't wash your hands. You can tell these in seminars and conferences, but people who have nursed in self-government don't tell them. And because you challenged me, saying that the selflessness of the Ottas, the constitutionally guaranteed etc., Minister, you give me the framework you give it to me. What selflessness of the ATTs? Aren't you the ones who have stumbled, in fact, the municipal and regional councils on your day, now - recently, is that also, I lament COVID? Is that also - and you took all the responsibilities, the economic committees, with artificial majorities? One has sworn - and you blame him for - with the simple analogue, the 'CLISTEN' etc. And you guys were fine. One's cutting, the other's sewing! And you come and you did fine in local government! You left decoratively the municipal and regional councils. The economic committees, which decide on all of this, are the committees which you have given, Minister, framework. You have created majorities and that is exactly how you guide them in this process. In simple terms what I want to say to you, then, is that "dance" of direct commissions from OTAs I echo COVID - that is what I say to the question - and I am looking for who is "the top of the dance". Who's "the top of the dance"? The one who does, the self-government who finds the opportunity to mercy COVID, the one I exceptionally say? Because the self-government are the ones offering the frontline of society. But you give them the framework, because as a "dance culprit", my Minister, you tolerate these procedures. And we are talking about a'shoulder' of millions, to which not everyone can participate equally. Isn't that bad for you? It is not bad for you that the infamous negotiation - and you moved me into the 2016 law, which we then made a scientific report, after research, on how this should be done and which has been too concerned with the legal world -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u27	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u28	...is it by invitation - and I am ending, Mr President - to be invited only to the parties and to the good ones? How do you deal with this? Why don't you tell us? You're a minister. We, Minister, have not come to make you here sterile opposition, criticism at levels, but, often, it is heard and, indeed, it is also my aesthetics. We only came to ask your ministry to tell us what his position is against these phenomena. So, what do you think? What am I leaving with today? What did you tell me? What am I taking with me? What am I going to go to the parliamentary group of the Change Movement?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u29	Good. The Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u30	That self-government is autonomous, that it has the self-government and constitutionally guaranteed, that it can act in any context, but in a context where do you build it? So, Minister, we see him at the top of the dance. He's right in front of us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. So if you are asking politically what you are going to go to the Change Movement, may I ask the following question: Do you agree with the Skourletis Act, which we are going to abolish now? Because when you say that we have sedated the municipal councils, you must bear in mind that we have given a small medicine so that a decision can be taken at all, with the support of the Economic Committees, for example. Otherwise no decision could be taken and the municipalities and regions of the country completely unresolved. This is a clear political choice. We've done it. We have taken the first step at the beginning of the mandate of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and we are now completing it with the new electoral law which will soon come to Parliament and hopefully receive positive approval from all of you MPs. Second element: Did you first hear about the process through negotiation? I mentioned Article 32 of Law 4412/2016, the Public Procurement Act. This was used in this case by the act of legislation. We don't find the wheel. We are stepping on existing procedures, but in the light of the exceptional circumstances created by the pandemic. What do you mean? That one shouldn't have moved on quickly to deal with the pandemic? Would we wait eight and twelve months, after March 2020, to make any decision to supply any material or service related to the treatment of pandemic? And then what would you say to the Group of the Change Movement and the citizens who sent you here with their vote? We have therefore seen an unprecedented situation before us and acted quickly. The political responsibility for choices has to do with the fact that we are not hiding, but that we are entering into the battle. That is why we established these procedures, which were not unknown to the legal framework of our country, but, on the contrary, they gave flexibility and speed to move quickly. As far as the issues of legitimacy are concerned, I told you before that the Court of Auditors and the AACC judged them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u33	We are now moving on to the third under number 3138/440/11-1-2021. Question and requesting the submission of documents of the SYRIZA State MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Financing of Municipal Water and Wastewater Operations (EEA) for the implementation of projects in the critical water sector to ensure access to adequate and good quality water for human consumption". And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Petsas. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in addition to your efforts to abolish, as you said before, in reply to my colleague, the law of mere analogy, you have done something else that does not honour your Government. The previous minister did, at least. I hope you guys get out of this street, get different. You received a program, the "Philomos", innovative, targeted, transparent, functional, effective, which has been widely accepted by the government and all you have done - a year and a half you are running at the moment - is to change his name and put a stop to it. You're abused. We called on you not one, not two, not three, but many times to testify to the new contract you were supposed to sign or sign between the European Investment Bank and the Deposit Fund, because a year and a half that you did, as a government, was to say falsely that no funding had been provided. And today you come to your reply to tell us about the projects that have been integrated - the projects inviting water - for the two hundred nine projects, which are the result of our own efforts, our own agreement. So, what have you been doing for a year and a half to be a government? You have tried and attempted to convert this targeted financing tool to the first degree of self-government, into a tool for manipulating local societies. A classic example is the case of the JHA Serres, where you come here, announce it, photograph your predecessor with Mr Karamanlis, the Minister for Infrastructure, on a project that has not been previously approved - so we ask you to bring us the recommendation of the committee responsible - and, in essence, abuse the program "Philosmos" by not putting a cap on the invitations so far, so that the majority of the municipalities are in danger of remaining out of funding. What more devastating could be done? In any case, we want you to finally bring us what we asked you to do in the first place, and you did not do so, and we are here today in the form of the timely question. Minister, I expect clear answers and when this new convention comes, I hope it's better, because cunning is too high, and it's not that we will judge you. You're judged by the world of self-government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Skourletis, for the opportunity to say a few words. Who said that the "Philomos 1" programme has been abandoned or has been stumbled upon? As you well know, the integrated projects of "Philomos 1" have been transferred to the "Antonis Tritsis" programme as a whole. Therefore, those who had obtained approval from the Ministry have joined the "Antonis Tritsis" programme and take their way. In particular, we are always seeking mature proposals in order to have the necessary absorption needed for such a large programme. In particular, some 594 million euros have been included under the "Philomos 1" programme for water supply projects, namely with two hundred nineteen water projects. The "Antonis Tritsis" programme, in this challenge "water infrastructure", has another EUR 300 million with the possibility for municipalities to submit their proposals by 31 March 2020. As far as the work you mentioned about the JHA Serres is concerned, it is a project that the government of course has shown its political will because of the previous political leadership, which had been positive in this work. As far as I am concerned, what I can tell you is that at the moment this project is being assessed and when the relevant recommendation of the Special Service and the Evaluation Committee is being made, then we will proceed to join it, since of course this recommendation is positive. However, I will come to answer two specific questions that you have shown on the wall and on the EIB contract. In our view, in order for the weakest municipalities, those with the weakest technical services, to know that at least their priority projects can be seen to be part of the "Antonis Tritsis" programme to be financed and implemented for the benefit of local society. That will be within the next few days. As far as the contract with the EIB and the Deposit and Loans Fund is concerned, you referred, Mr Skourletis, and said that you were accused of having no guaranteed funding. Before I reply to my second question about the contract, I would like you to reply to me from now on: Without the EIB's contract with the Deposit and Loan Fund, was funding guaranteed? Was that necessary in order to ensure funding? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will tell you in my denture what we are going to do about this contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u38	I understand the beginning of your first speech, Minister, as an indirect criticism of the events of your predecessor, who had turned all over Greece, had spoken to the mayors and said that we made fun of them. Now you come and tell me this. What I'm telling you is registered is public. Press the internet and write "Theodorikos", "PhiloDimos", "Antonis Tritsis". He had sprinkled panic to the people of self-government, falsely, because he couldn't bear to say that a good policy has to keep going! Because she is the misery that characterizes your Government and the Minister in question! Because that's what this is about. And the CED itself told you at her meetings. And it came out a few days ago, the Secretary General of the Ministry said: either "Antonis Tritsis" or "Philosmos" is the same program. That's about what you've answered now. You have left a year without renewal of the contract we signed, with a risk that projects of about 100 million will be torn apart at the moment. It seemed your amateurs, in relation to the lack of a plaque, which enabled anyone who had "bambas in Koronis", to access the Minister, with no objective criteria to ensure funding for the other municipalities! And you've lost your horizon in the regional municipalities. And I tell you, because you come from the region. You don't have the ambitions you don't want to deal with in the second Piraeus, like your predecessor. So you know what the small municipality means with the asbestos water network, not having access to clean water, in quality water. This was the aim of the "Philomos" in this area of water supply. You ignored all this and you proposed what? Impressions, anti-SYRIZA policy, communication, without content, with the risk that hundreds of projects will be left without funding. Indeed, Mr Minister, as far as JHA is concerned, you are also a little confused about the issues of competence. The Ministry of Infrastructure has nothing to do with water supply projects. I repeat, it has nothing to do with water supply projects from the Ministry of Infrastructure. The NRP handles it by the Ministry of Development. The Ministry of the Environment is responsible for water policy. These must be made clear. It's really sad to see that after a year and a half you haven't exactly captured the responsibilities between your government and the JHA, dear Minister, it's one of the tools that have endured the time, tools that they offer, tools that condense a great deal of experience within them. So support her and don't pull the rug under her feet. Because when there are cases such as the Serres project, these are deducted from the financing of other necessary projects relating to other municipal water and sewerage operations in the country. Abandon any thoughts - because they have been made by your Government - to privatise these companies. Support them, as we did with the 3K, with specific scientific staff who had been. That is what self-government needs today. Give responsibilities, give resources and do not suffice to appear re-reformers once again by abolishing, as you said, the Skourletis Act, which was a first step towards a process of reform and strengthening the 1st degree of self-government. The final state proves to be a centralised state, which, once again, is loyal to the traditions of your paradox, is counterfacting local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u40	Mr Skourletis, you did not answer my question, but I will say this: why are you blaming Mr Theodorikos? Since I told you before, all the projects of "Philomos 1" which were not guaranteed funding were included in the "Antonis Tritsis" programme which is much larger, it has a larger range of 2.5 billion euros and that is why the projects that have been approved could be launched and benefit from the funding to be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u41	We're telling you! They haven't joined!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u42	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u43	Please. What have they not joined? What hasn't he joined? The approved works of "Philomos 1" have been transferred to "Antonis Tritsis". It's over and out. Now, with regard to the issue you did not answer, a loan contract between the EIB and the Deposit and Loan Fund was not there. I therefore inform you, as I inform the Delegation, that we are in discussions with the EIB so that, in March, the contract with the Deposit and Loan Fund will be signed, which will provide for the possibility of covering up to the total amount. From there on, we will start with a smaller amount at the beginning, in order to benefit from the positive course of projects, namely their implementation, absorption, which will also unlock further funding from the Deposits and Loans Fund. On the question of the cyberdynamicity of the municipalities and regions, Mr Skourletis, history has shown that the legislation you brought was inappropriate - I use the softest expression - for the place. We're withdrawing it. Let's go to a new era. We are really focusing on the needs of the citizens and we are strengthening the cybernicality of the municipalities and regions, to provide services to the citizens who need to see these administrative powers implemented, and not to be referred back to debates that were endless in the regional and municipal councils, who could not decide for anything, as you had created a piece of legislation that never enabled the mayor to govern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too, Minister. We enter the debate on the seventeenth year under No 473/22-2-2021 topical question from the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The repressive developments surrounding the case of the artistic director of the National Theatre and the effort to disorientate and cover up by the government." The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture, Mr Styliani Mendoni. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ms. Mendonis, here in the House of Greeks and Greeks, it is neither a matter of communal excellence nor of non-communication adequacy. Here from this step of the Greeks and Greeks, we are all obliged to be accountable to them. I'm asking you. In August 2019 from this Step of the House in the most official way - and I would say arrogantly - you took the political responsibility objectively to stop a competition and entrust the public interest, to assign it, for the most flagrant institution of culture, the National Theatre, to a person of your personal choice, as the Prime Minister said. First March 2021. I ask you, Mrs Mendoni: do you have or do you have no political responsibility for bringing this particular person to trial for a serial raper for thirty years and, in many cases, do you have or do you have no political responsibility and resign? Do you have or do you have no political responsibility, Mrs Mendoni, for the cover-up that has taken place since the beginning, and not just from 6 February, when you had the letter of the students and students of the National Theatre? Did you invite them to speak? Or did you talk only to the rumors? When Mr. Tarantilis and you said that this man resigned on his own hand when were you telling the truth? Mr. Tarantilis, of course, quit. He had political emotiveness. When did you tell the truth? When you said that he resigned himself? Or when 15 days later, did you remember that you quit him but quietly so you wouldn't throw him to dogs? What have you done, Ms. Mendoni, all this time and what have you done, so that you will arrive on 19 February and ask for an inquisition when you could have done - and you should have, since you had to do that - since you had the interview with Nikos S. in Natalie Hadjiantonio? All of this as well as the uprooting of all the people of culture, Mrs. Mendoni, make you a face of non grata for culture. I ask you from this Step of the House if you feel that you can continue to be Minister, not Minister of Trade, as we present you, for major projects but for Culture. Can you continue to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, I have listened carefully to your position, as I always do. It was not until last Thursday that a debate was held in Parliament at the level of political leaders and that was discussed in detail. However, today I am here in the context of the exercise of parliamentary control to answer your questions thoroughly and straightforwardly. Your criticism, Mrs Anagnastopoulou, focused on two main points. Firstly, in the selection process of Dimitris Lignade and, secondly, in what happened until he was removed from the involvement of justice in the investigation of the case. I'm starting with the appointment process. Dimitris Lignades was appointed by the very same procedure that was appointed to the government of SYRIZA and the previous artistic director, Stathis Livathianos. In other words, according to the procedure laid down by Law 2273/94, which is the founding law of the National Theatre. In January 2015, SYRIZA becomes a government. Has he changed the law on the appointment of the artistic director? Oh, no. By this law, the ministers of Baltas and Xydakis appoint Stathis Livathino, with a simple decision. What you are calling a direct delegation today. In 2016, L.4369 is voted by your own government. What does SYRIZA do under this law? Does it issue a contract notice? Oh, no. He renews the mandate of Stathis Livathianos again without a proclamation, again by direct delegation, as you say. When was the notice of interest in filling the position of the artistic director of the National Theatre by Minister Myrsini Zorba? Three years later, on 29 May 2019. I would like to remind you here that on 26 May, three days before the announcement, the European elections were held and on the same night, because of the result, former Prime Minister Tsipras announced that he would proceed directly to elections. The position in an election period was therefore announced, which all opposition parties had then denounced. You don't find a hypocrisy on this? However, the notice itself would suffer from nullity and I would explain why. The notice was issued pursuant to Article 8(4) of L.4369/2016. In the meantime, however. No 4622/2019 Articles 1 to 13 of the EEC Treaty. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Consequently, the provision in which the notice for the artistic director was issued would be void. And this beyond the other formal errors that led to the proclamation as proof of the rush with which it was issued. It was therefore certain that there would be objections from the candidates and in the end the notice would be void in the administrative courts. The change in legislation immediately after the elections and the reopening of the post would delay the appointment of at least six to eight months. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like your tolerance for a moment, Mr President. Result: The National Theatre would stay without an artistic director. This meant that all the artistic programming of the National for the 2019-2020 season would be "in the air" under the responsibility of the Ministry. Then I remind you there was no coronary. The theatre had to work. The self-evident thing, then, was to make use of the founding law of the National Theatre, as was done by the appointment of all the previous artistic directors, including those appointed by you. As defined by Stathis Livathianos, he was appointed artistic director at the State Theatre of North Greece in 2018 by Giannis Anastassakis. I would remind you that along with the appointment of Lignade, I have explicitly stated that during his term of office and after the necessary legislative changes are made, a timely notice will be published to fill the post. What you should have done and you didn't. So, are you saying, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, that the appointment of Livathian and Anastassakis was a scandal? I guess not. So you agree that it was not the appointment of Lignade, because it was done exactly the same. Now let's go to the face. First of all, let me make it clear once again that Dimitris Lignades was my choice. It's my choice. I chose him exclusively on the basis of artistic criteria, as laid down in the founding law of the National Theatre. The previous artistic director, Stathis Livathianos, who you appointed at the delivery ceremony - reported that he thinks that he is a great time to succeed and described him as a talented man. Livathian said that. As you well know, at SYRIZA with your own administration Lignade each year or starring or directing or doing both in performances in the National. In 2018, Lignade was a guest of the President of the Parliament, Nikos Voutsi, at an event of the Parliament for Nelson Mandela. Your party, the SYRIZA MEP, four months after his appointment in December 2019, invited him to speak at a cultural event. Your Minister of Culture, Lydia Konordos, was his leading and in 2020. So I reverse the roles and ask you. What would you say to someone who tells you that, on your day as well, Lignade was posting to the National Assembly, that your party was calling him at events and that the Minister of Culture of your government was leading his work? What do you say? That you didn't know, wouldn't you? And you'd be right. Of course you didn't. But that also applies to me. I didn't know either. And when there were complaints, I did what I had to do right away. Things are just, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. On February 6, 13: 42, the shocking interview of Nikos S. who photographs Lignade without mentioning his name is published. Five hours later, he left. For some communications, I first did my self-criticism, but the essence is what I told you. The interview was published at 13: 42. Five hours later Lignade had left his post and immediately after the case passed into the hands of justice. Is that a cover? This government, Mrs. Readstopoulou, does not cover. It was shown in the case of Sofia Bekaterou, which we encouraged and supported her revelations that were the legend of developments. The administrations of the Athens and Epidaurus Festival, as well as of ERT, have shown this, which have interrupted cooperation with artists who have been denounced for acts until they have been settled by the judiciary. The institutional initiatives announced by the Prime Minister on this matter show that. All of this is indicative of our perception of falling light on every dark case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u48	You will, Minister, and in your dentistry, if you will.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President. So don't talk about cover-up, because it's a heavy word, because it doesn't blame us for any misfortune or mismanagement, but also of irresponsibly saying that your political opponent will deliberately cover up a case for which such terrible things have been heard, does not promote public life. On the contrary, it promotes and legitimizes extreme behaviors and vulgarities, such as those we have seen in previous days. There must be rules in political controversy. It is not a question of political self-determination, it is a question of quality of democracy. The vulgarity, conspiracy theories, fanatical blindness do not lead anywhere. Greece must not return to uncontrolled times of uncontrolled toxicity. It would be bad for society as a whole, but it would be unfair for the victims themselves. The last thing that is needed in the case of revelations in the art space is an unlimited political controversy on the subject. This would dismantle the substance of the matter, but it would, above all, dissuade the real cleansing of the space. To find the victims the courage to speak, they want encouragement, to feel confident that they will find a political system ready to support them, to feel security and trust. Then, yes, they'll talk easier. If, on the contrary, they consider that what they say will become the subject of micropolitical exploitation and that they themselves will enter into the vortex of a ruthless political conflict, they may even not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u50	Before you stopped us all the time, Mr President! What about the Minister's time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u51	Mr Skourletis, listen: Mrs Anagnastopoulou's prototype was double. It could be six minutes, I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u52	I shall therefore conclude, Mr President. So the victims could never speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u53	I understand, but because there's also the noise that's become, there's a tolerance. The world isn't lost. And to you we've left many times more time. It's a special matter. I don't think we should now create a problem. You have a second, Minister, to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u54	I shall conclude, Mr President, only for seconds. I would therefore not like the victims to see their own experience as an opportunity to serve other kinds of purposes. I want to believe that no one in this Chamber wants that. That is why I would ask that we put aside the micro-political ambitions in this field. In the matter of the policy of the Ministry of Culture to collide as much as you like, it is legitimate, but not politically toys on the wounds of human souls. I would be very pleased if the institutional arrangements for protecting against abuse, which the Prime Minister has presented from this step, have the broadest possible support. This will be an essential step forward and a real proof that the whole political system has decided to erect a wall against these criminal behaviours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Here, Ms. Anagnostopoulos, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u56	I will speak more, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u57	Okay, I'm not gonna cut you the time. If you think you need more time, you'll have him. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u58	Ms. Mendoni, you still consider this Step of the House to be a communication game yours and your Government. Perhaps because you are not elected, you do not understand what "locality" means and what "political emorality". I would like to begin by saying that you have made a report of ideas and a lesson about how we should behave in political life. Are you serious? Are you going to teach us a lesson from upstairs? Some catalytic events have happened. But the world of culture is against you for too many things. The whole society is stunned and amazed and you didn't find a word to say today from the Step of the House, a "I'm sorry, was my choice wrong"? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] An apology, that's what society wants! But is that possible? Aren't you ashamed and want to be Minister of Culture? What culture? What culture? Explain to me! And you came to give us lessons? Mrs. Mendoni, you'll look me in the eye! If SYRIZA acted completely institutionalally and didn't want to take advantage of this story, we did it with the above and you know it. And if you don't know, your State Secretary didn't let you know. I called or didn't call the Ministry, the Undersecretary responsible for modern culture one or two days before Nikos S. and I talked to him with political sensitivity, and I told him that you had to do research, make it easier for the victims to speak? And you know why I did it, Mrs. Mendoni? For a simple reason, because people were calling me and they were telling me that victims are not going to talk as far as this man is covered by the protection of power. And I took him and explained to him humanity and told him that it is not a matter of SYRIZA - New Democracy, it is a matter of political and social sensitivity. And then the shocking interview comes and what did you do? He resigned himself. You dated or didn't come out next week and told us "the man couldn't stand the toxicity, he couldn't withstand the rumors"? Did you say with Mr Taradili's most official lips - who has now resigned rather than resigned - that you have not come out and said that this toxic climate has been created? "Mindoni-Lingnadis scandal" will you do it "SYRIZA scandal"? Are you all right? Would you throw it away somewhere else? Go out to this House and say an apology, otherwise, we have a problem with the whole world of culture, with the whole society talking to a Minister of Culture. In the end, after you saw the dark - and I didn't blame you for any intentions, I'm a good man - you said that he was a dangerous man and that he deceived you. Minister can be deceived? And that's a communal mistake? It doesn't matter to you personally if you knew the life and the state of Lignade. If there are criminal responsibilities, justice will find out. We are talking about political responsibilities. And here are you obligated to tell us when you were right, when he resigned himself, or when you left him quietly, so that you wouldn't throw him to dogs? Do you have a responsibility to prove that this man has been a serial rapist, according to the intention, for thirty years and even minors? It's not a criminal responsibility, Mrs. Mendoni. We are talking about political responsibility here! I tell you for the last time: You have been denounced by the world of culture, you have been denounced by the opposition. Can you from this Step of the House shout 'I am Minister of Culture legalized'?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u59	Do not interrupt, let go, the Minister will answer, who I think has given the answers. It's going to continue now. I don't think Mrs. Mendoni wants anyone's advice. She knows things so well and she was so clear before, so let her answer. However, I should like to say one thing: it is the legislation, Mrs Readostopoulou, that the state, the legislation that has been passed at intervals, which has extended these phenomena, for example - we are talking more generally now, we are not talking about the substance of the matter - that the mere nature of emigration has been abolished and that these phenomena have been intensified. Remember when it was abolished and under what conditions. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, your dentistry actually added nothing more than that that which has been cut down. But I shall refer to three points that have been raised in general terms by your party. You talk about the people of culture and you refer to ironically to the fifty-six individuals from space saying that most have state positions. Do Yannis Adamakos, Dionyssis, Dimitris Dimitriadis, Harris Kaburidis, Roula Pateraki or Soti Triantafylou?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u61	Parliamentary control takes place, gentlemen! Do you know what parliamentary control means?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u62	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have not been interrupted by the Minister. However, neither you, ladies and gentlemen, can address Mrs Anagnostopoulou. Please, too! Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u63	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, does Emily Ypsilanti, Anna Fonsos and Leuteris Plaskovitis belong in our political area? You demand people with an offer to culture, invoking the name of the people of culture, because they are differentiated from the organized propaganda you have set against me. On the contrary, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, appointed by you is the board of the Thessaloniki Film Festival - we have not changed the administration that your government, the SYRIZA government appointed - and which has issued an announcement against me. A similar position has been taken by others who have political relations with you. The different measures and weights do not give credibility to your criticism and let me say that they do not honor you. Invite the press conference at which I had an unfortunate wording. There is a contradiction, however, here. Don't you see her? On the one hand, you blame me for allegedly covering and on the other, on the other, for adopting a judicial decision characterising Linguid as a dangerous one. Both can't do it. I either tried to cover him up or tried to convict him as I did not have to. It's either one or the other. Decide which one of you blames me, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. It's my fault. Identify your wrongdoing as well. And I close with another contradiction. I heard a lot of people say 'We knew'. I have heard the honourable Member say 'We have known each other for many years'. I'm sorry, but whoever knew, he didn't speak, especially when he was a MP. A year and a half, why didn't there be a question in this House on this matter? Why didn't someone even call me when he was appointed to tell me "Do you know what that sounds like, do you not see it again?" to protect not me, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, but the National Theatre that entered an adventure and, most importantly, the people of the area themselves? I am happy to communicate with the MPs of any party, because it is my duty. Why didn't they let me know informally even if they said they knew? So, isn't it a bit of a oxymomile for those who say they knew many years and didn't talk about going down on me that I didn't know about? I close as I do in my protology. Political criticism is acceptable and legitimate. If you want to talk about my work and my decisions, here I am to discuss as much as you want, something I have proved. I am here to discuss the Greek and investment, the metro of Thessaloniki and the major public works, for Tatoi, for the conversion of the five archaeological museums into legal entities governed by public law, for the renewal and expansion of the National Archaeological Museum, for the sponsorships. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] We can talk politically about what you want. I'm here. But don't turn a serious issue into a toxic sludge. This story is an opportunity to move forward, to put an end to criminal behaviour, to modernise the institutional framework for the operation of cultural institutions that are obsolete and outdated, and especially in the fields of artistic education, to set a framework and set limits on those with power and power, to see the protection of the weakest, to establish rules and measures on all the issues proposed by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on Thursday. It will be a wish that these measures will be promoted in a political consensus and no longer - mercy! - in the midst of morbid convergences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. Mrs. Minister spoke for 15 minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u66	There's no personal matter now. He gave an answer to dentistry...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u67	Madam Minister, I regard what you have done as political disgrace and still ask for your resignation!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u68	We enter the next, in the sixth under No 469/22/2021 topical question by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Backing into black times”. The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Leuteris Aygeakis. Here, Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Will the... to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u70	What are these things now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u71	I ask you, Mr. President, will the... leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u72	To withdraw, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u73	Excuse me, why is the President-in-Office here? Mr. Marcus...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u74	Please, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u75	Mr Marcus, this is a plenary sitting and in plenary anyone can be here and listen without interfering. I therefore think that it was unworthy of what you said and obviously you would also like to delete that expression from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u76	Yes, deleted, Mr. President. And they can leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u77	Parliamentary control is monitored by any Member of Parliament who wants it. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u78	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u79	Here, Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, the lady is harassing the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Marcus, can you continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u82	Minister, the Greek Constitution forms a protectionist framework for the free establishment and unobstructed functioning of the associations of persons, which the state must respect or even protect, in particular by abstaining from interventions aimed at shrinking the self-determination of its members. Article 12 of the Constitution guaranteeing the right of ‘cooperative’ states, first, that the Greeks have the right to form associations and non-profit unions by complying with the laws, but that they can never make the exercise of that right subject to prior authorisation and, second, that the association cannot be dissolved for breach of the law or material provision of its statute, except by a judicial decision. This constitutional provision has been interpreted by case law and implies the following: The operation of associations is governed by their statutes or by any other collective agreements directly. No legislative intervention is permitted, which seeks to restrict and affect their functioning and objectives, that is to say in their statutes. Any other intervention such as this is unconstitutional, because it violates the self-government of associations. We are now coming to the essence of the question. On 16 February you tabled a late amendment to the Treasury bill. At the same time as there is a consultation of the Ministry of Culture on a bill, which you are most improperly violating the statutes of sports federations and associations. You intervene in the electoral procedures, you change the dates, you set the emotive committees of your choice and you get e-voked, something very important, which is not inconsistent. Because there are many problems of sport and it seems that you are not going to deal with them and solve them, and your only idea is to manipulate federations and unions, I ask you this: is this amendment another government intervention in the forthcoming elections of sports federations and associations, as well as another circumvention of the autonomy of the operation of sports entities in the country? How does the Ministry intend to ensure that the contents of each vote remain secret and unchanged? How will the principles of integrity, the secrecy of votes and, in general, the transparency and openness of the elections be ensured? By expanding my questions, there are about eighteen Olympic federations with under a hundred members. Why don't you urge them to vote in a natural presence? And why did you choose to set up lobby committees in antiquities - we will also come to them - with outside members from the lawyers, which is unprecedented for the democratic functioning of the institutions? And how do you define the examination, who will define it, any objections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u83	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I am opposed to the phrases 'institutional diversion', but also to the other inaccuracies that you have written and which you have just said. I'm telling you honestly that I understand the need to show anxieties and passion and to prove that you have a role, anyway, in here. But let me tell you that you really don't know what you're saying, what you're writing and what you're signing. I am very pleased that I am able to repeat from this Step forward the alternative that we have provided by the recent provision that we have voted on, and I am referring to, Mr Colleague, because you have probably not even read it - in Article 45 of Law 4778/2021, a provision that, according to your criticism, brings you back to sport. Yes, sir. For us, however, as for the whole of the sporting family, this provision goes to sport one step ahead, in the era of the use of modern means of technology, information and communication, that is. The difficulties and limitations we face in the battle with the pandemic give us the opportunity to develop our country's sporting structure and in the digital direction, to modernise it in this area too, as part of our reform policy. I am very sorry, because the question you have tabled does not correspond at all but at all in reality. It has nothing to do with the content and purpose of the provision. In fact, Mr Marcus, it's like you didn't even care what leads us there and what we want to achieve, although a doctor, if I'm not wrong. You have asked here one question without studying the substance, just to pete the ears of some, your little audience, who want to serve or satisfy, and yet we are here once again, always open to the public debate, to explain as many times as necessary, to understand and those who are watching us, what exactly is provided for in the article and what is provided for in the overall sports reform. No matter how many times we need we'll be here to answer what you're asking us. You say that we have opted for a mandatory electronic vote on sports federations and associations. Hazardous misinformation, Mr Colleague, and it is embarrassing, if not dangerous, for you too. We do not mention the word'mandatory' anywhere. It is your invention, for specific purposes, I imagine, and I now invite you to withdraw, otherwise show exactly where the requirement is, please. I repeat what I said the other day from this step, on the day of the vote on the amendment, to be understood. We are giving the alternative to sports players at all levels, clubs, associations, federations, convening general assemblies and then holding electoral procedures, using secure digital media. In simple terms, there are now three alternatives to convening general assemblies and electoral procedures. First, in the context of Law 2725/1999, the general conventions for archaeology with the physical presence of all in the same area must be held at the same time as the General Assembly for Architectures in the local federations. This alternative to decentralisation was provided in Article 7 of Law 4726/2020 last September and, thirdly, in Article 45 of Law 4778/2021, we provide a third alternative to sports bodies, the electronic vote. We are therefore giving immediate solutions to the problems that arise and adapt to the new data. The current situation, with measures to prevent the spread of the coronary, which do not allow many people to be gathered in the same area, offers us the most appropriate opportunity to follow the points of time, that is to say, to establish the possibility of introducing new technologies and the internal functioning of sports bodies. And it is a great thing for a government to understand the criticality of a situation, to set priorities, because - let us not forget - public health is a matter for us to find immediate solutions. This third option was therefore necessary, with strict criteria, with very strict criteria, with transparent procedures, with order and economy, and above all with safeguarding the soundness, secrecy and integrity of the votes that form the core of democratic operation. After all, transparency and democracy are predominant elements of the evolving sport reform. That is what we have foreseen in all the laws that we have adopted up to now. We understand that some of you are disturbed by the class that we put into the sports structure, that everything is now taking their way, following transparency and legality, unknown words, I imagine, among the things of your own government. Every factor, Mr Colleague, who is watching us, must know that no one has anything to fear at all, any choice to do about how to hold the general assembly and the antiquities. We are here to safeguard the integrity of each process. We fully serve households in sport, and that will continue to do, protecting and safeguarding the processes of antiquities that will be chosen by the upcoming administrations, in the brightest and most modern, worthy of the history of Greece, for our new generation of athletes. At the best next day of sport, we're investing, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Minister. Mr Marcus, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I oppose your personal insinuations. I do not consider it decent for me to deal with it, but I will ask you who know what you are legislating and what you are signing. The phrase'may' in the joint Ministerial Decision is totally pretextary. Here, in your practice, we have the deposition of cynicity, makevellism and envy. "They can" the federations run elections from the deadline that began a week ago, until April 10th, when all Greece is quarantine and you know that the federations' representatives cannot move to vote in a natural presence. And you come wearing the cloak of the democrat and institutional and transparent to say "may". If they want to. Hey, how can they? They can't move! Aristotle and makeup. We are now coming to the electronic process. It will be sent by a system, the "ZEEA" - for which the credibility has been expressed - a code. I beg that you have not chosen to use the reliable system of the International Olympic Committee. A code will be sent, a federation will pick it up. Anyone who receives this code through his computer will be able to vote. There will be a server based on the General Secretariat of Sports, one of your staff, underneath you, who can change this vote at any time. Do you know why, Minister, you are guilty of lying? Because the vote can be opened until the moment it is closed, say at seven o'clock this afternoon, by seven or five, this code can vote as many times as it wants. One of your employees, therefore, because I have no confidence in your good intentions, can enter - as you say - the server, your ministry's office and change that vote. What credibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u87	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u88	I'm telling you. So find out what the electronic vote you do not know is, as is demonstrated by the best of the cases. I'll be in one last. What does it mean in the explanatory statement 'guaranteed results'? What does it mean that this process provides guaranteed results? Guaranteed results for whom? For you, obviously, and for attempting to rid the federations. Minister, the sport movement suffers huge verbs from your politics and from the pandemic and at the same time you come to disturb the sports federations at a time of pre-olympic preparation. Be sure - and I am sure the President will also be a senior judge - that the next day there will be dozens of appeals to the competent courts and that will affect the sporting movement. You're responsible and guilty of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u89	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Marcus, the threats elsewhere. Did we know you about a populist and so much a liar? Honestly, I'm falling from the clouds. And you're a professional liar. Today you have proved it. In the context of the inaccuracies we have heard today, I would like to refer to another unambiguous lie that you have said. You said that the Deputy Minister of Sports merges electronic votes and appoints taxi committees of his choice. Do you know what you're saying? Where did you see that written? I'm sorry, but you're elsewhere. It is a pity that you are not upgrading the opposition work that you must serve as a Member of the Officer’s Response. Honestly, Mr Colleague, and populism has its limits. In your agony to mislead the world for alleged manipulation of federations you do not even understand the basics laid down by the law. So what does Article 45(2) say? That the digital elections in particular will be held in the presence of a three-member mercenary committee, made up only of lawyers, with a presidential lawyer this year and even Aryo Igo. Where'd you see the rest of the stuff? Where did you see them written? Shame on you! Shame on you! This committee will be appointed twenty days before the archivisms by the Bar Association in the region of which the sports body concerned has its seat, at the request of the Bar Association twenty-five days before the elections. The period of these twenty days before the elections will be used to train the ETUC in the use of the ‘ZEUS’ system, as well as in the preparation of the votes, the registration of candidates and voters and other items on the agenda on which the vote will take place. So, what assignment are you referring to? How naive do you think it's the sports family to be able to get along with so low-level arguments? Are you the ones, Mr Marcus, who, with such tricks, are trying to cultivate an insecurity climate and bring darkness back to sport? So I'll repeat it. We are here to guarantee the smooth and incorruptible process of general assemblies and antiquities. We have already predicted that if the way in which the electronic vote is chosen is to be given sufficient time for the commissions to register the applications in good time in the JHA system and thus better prepare electronic voting, it will be compulsory to declare the candidates at least five days before the elections, unless the statutes in question provide for a longer period, in which case the deadline of the Statute will be applied. Already, too, very consistent with the time and in accordance with Article 45, we issued the authorisation of a CYS in good cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance, which sets out the details of every issue necessary for the conduct of electronic general meetings on the archaeological and the completion of the respective votes. Furthermore, there is provision for a ministerial decision on the basis of a second power, which is valid only for this year and only for the current situation, to extend, if necessary, for a maximum of ten days, the period within which federations' elections can take place, if this is of course necessary for the smooth completion of the elections in question. It is clarified that the arrangements for the possibility of conducting antiquities by digital means take precedence over the procedures contained in the statutes of sports operators. We provide for the conduct of antiquities only in the traditional way, which requires and effectively imposes the physical presence in the same area of members or delegations of their members. Mr Marcus, you are admittedly in great confusion. That is what we have all seen here today in the Chamber. It makes sense, because you see that in a year and a half we've achieved what you didn't have the courage to do in four whole years. You see, there are areas that are embraced by the sports family, which you did not even have the opportunity to dare. You're getting confused. You're messing with the times. We do not live in the 'black' times in which the eternal 'actors' reigned. We don't live, Mr. Colleague, in the "black" seasons of the captains and feathers that some possessed in your own tolerance. We live in the light time when the athlete has a voice and a word on the board of the sports that has devoted his life. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We don't live in the "black" seasons when the sports facilities on your own responsibility were prone and put. We live in the light era of their upgrade, their real use for the benefit of any man who wants to be sported. We do not live in the "black" times when our country was one foot out of the Olympic Games because of your inconsistency in the field of anti-doping. We are living in the light of our evolution based on the modern requirements for cooperation with WADA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u91	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u92	I shall conclude, Mr President. We do not live in the "black" times that we were internationally isolated in our introvertance and sport. We are living, Mr President, in the light of our country's attraction to international sports events. Imagine that we brought back the history of Rally Acropolis, which, on your own days, has unfortunately passed very low and has been cancelled. We do not live in the "black" times when money was given to federations according to the sympathies and personal relationships that your Minister was building with the federations, where the background was reigning. We are giving them the merits, in terms of transparency and measurable data through the 'Chillos' programme, but you are also being ignored. We do not live in the "black" times that no federation knew how much legal and how much active unions it had in its "hack". We live in the light era that we know one by one each housed. Not just us, the whole society. And not only do we know, but we speak equally with them, we hear every request, we are together teammates in sports reform. Proof of all thirteen immediate measures that we have announced against mismanagement and abuse in sport, a product of true and honest dialogue that we have had with them. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken another step in sports reform. We are adapting to the needs and challenges of the time, and we are creating with absolute transparency an even secure, impregnable and alternative system for the uninterrupted democratic functioning of sports organisations: 'Sport in the forefront'. In addition, I want to refer to a few people who write about the diagnosing of electoral procedures with the 'ZEE' electronic voting system. I accept every criticism when it is done with documentary evidence and of course thoroughly. But criticising the procedure is just to say how bad the Minister of Sports is and to award the electronic voting system simply because some are in an orderly service - perhaps you - are first offended by yourselves and yourself. Those who say it what they have to say about the eighty-five-five-five-favoured electoral procedures carried out by this system? What do you say, Mr. SYRIZA's gentlemen, that several of these procedures took place on the days of the rule of SYRIZA, your own party? So do you know something and you don't tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u93	Minister, you speak seven minutes. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u94	So before you open your mouth to start the charges, it is good to measure your words and check what your government has done in these matters in the previous period. You are completely exposed and, above all, completely inconsistent and inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask you to keep the time, because there are too many questions. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the next question, I would like to inform you that the following three topical questions, which I will mention, will not be discussed as a result of a failure by the honourable Member: Under number 474/22-2-2021, a timely question by MP I of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on “Who commands schools? The Ministry of Education or Racism and intolerance;’. The Question No 468/22-2-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Problems in educational structures at the Special Adventure Reservation. The question asked by MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Request for residents of Lesvos to host refugees and immigrants". In addition, the following shall not be discussed at the request of the relevant Minister with the honourable Members: The question by number 453/19 2 2021 of the Second Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Lesbos of the New Democracy, Charalambos Athanasiou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Questions that arise in the Lesvos Law and not just from the suspension of forest maps". Question No 477/22-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "To solve the problems arising from the suspension of forest maps". We enter the sixth under No 447/18-2-2021 topical question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou, to the Minister of Finance, on "Concentration aid measures". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that the focus sector is the most affected sector because of the outbreak of the pandemic, it is facing serious problems of survival and so far any measures and any intervention by the government have been shown to be anemic. As the people who are affected themselves, they have proved to be 'aspirin'. So the demands and the issues they raise are rational, are reasonable and are the following. What are they looking for? First of all, they raise the following question: the grant of rents will not be able to ensure the viability and operation of the businesses if it is not combined with an extension of the leases and a ‘freezing’ of the elevations. The fact is that the multi-enterprise enclosure is due to the fact that there are essentially - in quotes - 'extortion' by many store owners, in order to increase commercial leases, otherwise they will not prolong commercial leases. Secondly, they call for repayable advances to be converted into support subsidies. It is true that thirty-eight thousand small and medium-sized enterprises have been excluded from the relevant regulation, because the algorithm you have created is designed to support large enterprises in order to favour big businessmen. Many, of course, did not agree to enter this arrangement because it is repayable, it is a sum that half should be repaid. What else do they want? They are asking for a single suspension allowance for workers and entrepreneurs to be introduced to the sum of EUR 800 and not the EUR 534 that you have given to date, which is at least a funny sum, when the operational costs of an undertaking exceed EUR 4,000. They also call for the establishment of a special grant programme specifically aimed at focusing, because it has already been established in western countries, such as Germany and France, and also in England, which has foreseen £6 000 a month. Finally, they call for VAT to be reduced to 6% and not where it is located, to 13% and for all debts created to be cancelled to the ECHO, to insurance funds, to be taxed in the koruna range from the first wave to the first quarter of 2021 and, of course, to be frozen and to protect the first residence. We are saying this because we have only recently learned that the auctions are being reintroduced, after the Commission's demands, of course. Finally - and I conclude with this, Mr President, and I thank you for your tolerance - they are calling for the compensation of public spaces to be deleted for as long as the businesses were closed up, and for which, while the municipalities have agreed, the Minister for the Interior is not taking a legislative initiative. I had raised the matter from the Step of the House when the law on the AAP was passed and the Minister wouldn't even listen to me. He was looking at his cell phone and he didn't give me any attention. I would therefore like to ask you what you intend to do in relation to the demands of this affected sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, the government manages and makes rational use of all available resources that can be used in order to alleviate the effects of pandemic on the economy as much as possible. There is no doubt that the focus sector has been particularly affected in recent years. It is illustrated by data, since this sector in 2019 made a turnover of EUR 6,4 billion and in 2020 the turnover fell to EUR 4,2 billion. There was a 35% drop. Cases vary, of course, as regards the focus that operates with delivery services that operate throughout this period. The government has supported the focus sector with measures of EUR 1.9 billion and will continue to support it. It was Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis who announced additional measures, such as: First, the full discharge from the obligation to pay a rent for the months of January, February and March for businesses that remain closed by government order. The measure, which has already been placed under Article 31 of Law 4778/2021, includes catering companies operating in a package of products and provision of products in a package from the store, hairdressing centres, aesthetic centres, businesses in the cultural and sport sectors, gyms, tourist businesses such as hotels, accommodation and tourist agencies and transport services. At the same time, there is a corresponding provision for property owners, since for the same months the payment of 80% of the monthly rent for natural persons and 60% for legal persons is provided for in their bank account. Secondly, the subsidy for fixed costs. Article 29 of Law No 4772/2021 has been established for companies affected by the pandemic, the grant of fixed costs, which is irresponsible, duty-free and is not offset by any debt. Fixed costs include indicative salaries of officials at the specific operating costs. Thirdly, maintaining the reduced rate of VAT on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages until 30 September 2021 and especially for the tourist package until 31/12-2021. Fourthly, maintaining the suspension regime for workers, which means extremely low wage costs for businesses, since those who are suspended are still compensated by the State. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. As far as the specific funding programme mentioned in your question is concerned, I must tell you that there is already provision for a programme to be activated through the NRP aimed at focusing enterprises, in order to strengthen these enterprises further in the process of relaunching the economy. In the field of liquidity support, the repayable advance 6, as planned, is significantly benefiting firms in the focus. Because, as you know, a return payment of 6 for the first time was planned on a monthly basis instead of on a bimonthly basis. This means that a decisive criterion is the comparison of the January 2020 turnover with the January 2021 turnover. Given that the catering shops were closed in January, you realise that they will be able to raise money more easily than the repayable advance 6 in relation to companies from other sectors. But it is not just these support measures. In my dentistry, I shall also refer to additional measures that will have been activated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u100	Mr Minister, before I answer you with regard to the measures you have mentioned, I would like to ask you the following question: All these requests from representatives of the focus sector are costing how much? I would like you to tell us an exact amount from the state budget that would be channelled for all these support measures and why you are not receiving them. Because so far, from the measures you have told us, we have heard nothing about their debts being cancelled. It is characteristic that when Mr Hatzidakis was Minister, they had asked for a settlement of the debts to PPC not to pay up 30% of the government's demands. Mr. Hatzidakis promised them this and eventually revoked them. They'll have to pay up 30% to get in a settlement. Besides, you are talking about rational management of resources. First of all, whether or not this government has managed rationally we have seen it with the terrible dispersal of public money for direct assignments, for Peshas lists, etc. All this money could really be channelled to these affected companies, which have a loss of turnover of EUR 2.5 billion. You know better than me that six out of ten businesses will put a padlock on. We're talking about over eighty thousand businesses. We are talking about too many workers, about three hundred thousand workers, and we are talking about losing a million jobs. What you mentioned to us is semi-metres and do not save the situation. People are under economic suffocation. They've reached the extreme limits of survival. I will testify to the practical testimony of these people. You do not even support 10% of the turnover of firms that are calling for a very rational demand. They're semimeters. You say you will pay compensation for the owners in respect of the rent compensation. This, in part, is a proper measure, but in any case you told us nothing about the freezing of evictions or the extension of wage contracts or the freezing of auctions. You should definitely adapt to the brave financing measures implemented by other European countries. It is true that this subtle lockdown and the logic of the accord you are implementing, one with the opening up and one with the closure of businesses, could have been avoided if you had taken it - and this has been said by epidemiologists - serious measures in support of the national health system, the decongestion of public transport, the safeguarding of children and teachers in schools, and not the opening up and closing of the 'block' of the economy literally and the Minister of Development has to say that he has no problem with handing over the keys to his businesses. It's not just failure, it's not just irresponsible, it's a cynicism. As for the programmes you have implemented so far, they are loans. Most of it's loans. I have a reply from the Minister for Development, which speaks of a Guarantee Fund. So you want to further tighten up the noose you've put into these people. You should examine their requests in depth. It is rational and has no cost in the budget more than the waste costs incurred by this government. I repeat that I want you to explain why you are not listening and disgusting. He wants more support. All you've done is really humiliation. We invite you to take their requests seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u102	My colleague, zeroing leads nowhere, just like populism. The large majority of citizens perceive the importance of the government's effort, receives this effort and values positively. Significant measures to support the focus sector, namely, the special-purpose allowances, the reduction of rents, and then the full exemption from the payment of rents for the months of January, February and March for enterprises that were closed with a government mandate. This favourable measure includes, as I said before, catering companies operating by distribution of products to a package and supply of products to a package from the store. Aid for the supply of heating bodies to catering undertakings was also activated. We have, in fact, foreseen in Article 55 of Law 4758/2020 that these aids will be inappropriate, tax-free and inappropriate. Other measures are the suspension of the deadlines for the expiry, appearance and payment of cheques, the reduction and in many cases the zeroing of the advance payment of tax, a measure of which 80% of Greek companies initially benefit, the adjustment of debts that provides for payment on a case-by-case basis in twelve instalments of interest payments or in twenty-four instalments at a rate of 2.5% for all natural and legal persons affected by the coronary and for certified debts that are initially suspended until 304-2021, also the provision of a second chance in those who at this time could not respond to the regulation of the hundred or a hundred or twenty instalments or extrajudicial mechanism. All of them are revivaling this arrangement, with all its benefits, such as the release of bank accounts, giving them the opportunity to re-enter it. A further measure is the provision that for debts secured by public financial services and audit centres that are not regulated and for which, as mentioned above, a suspension of recovery has initially been granted and an extension of payment up to 30-4-2021, the period of suspension of recovery is extended until 31 December 2021. These debts, after the expiry of the prolongation, i.e. 31-12-2021, will be eligible for the partial payment arrangement, which will provide for an option between twenty-four instalments or forty-eight instalments at an interest rate of 2.5%. The first instalment of this arrangement will be paid by 31 January 2022 and the remaining ones on the last working day of the following months. Further measures are the extension of the payment and suspension of the payment of the month’s instalment regulated by the tax administration for companies belonging to the directly affected sectors and to the employees of those undertakings whose employment contracts are suspended. Also, according to the data available since March 2020, there have been a suspension of two hundred and fifty thousand employees in the focus sectors, while the corresponding figure in January was ninety-seven thousand workers. All of these receive a special allowance of EUR 534, while others under parttime employment receive the same allowance. Easy solutions do not exist. The Government continues its efforts, continuously updates the existing support measures, plans and implements new support measures within the authorised budgetary limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u103	Minister, thank you, too. We are entering the next question to which the same Minister, Mr Besiropoulos, will reply again. It is the eighth under No 460/22-2-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Refusal to grant a tourist kiosk to the Municipality of Heidari”. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, on central political issues, the distance that divides us is inconsistent. We are trying to find solutions at least jointly to small local problems, which I do not think there is any reason to avoid a common place. I am referring to a debate that we have already had on the holiday stand of the Municipality of Heidari. Why is this pavilion so important? It is very important, because the Municipality of Heidari has itself - and possibly there is much that it can adopt - plans to highlight the narrow distances of the Daphne, the last part of the occult landscape that we have left from the Holy Road since antiquity, which could actually become an archaeological walk and which will be the main tourist destination of every visitor in Athens. Therefore, as you know, in the case of the Municipality of Haidari, the municipalities have seen their revenue collapse - it is a key resource that supports the revenues of the Municipality of Haidari and allows him to implement this Centre's budget, the "Yyorti". We had asked a previous timely question, as we have discussed the Botanic Garden, and you told me that you are positive about EBRD's cooperation, in fact with a very low price, taking the city's space and being able to operate it. However, any attempt by the mayor to the EBRD to implement this work unfortunately finds too many obstacles. And it's not only the mayor's effort, but it's the local society's effort to get that resource in her hands. I would like to remind you that it was granted in 1997 as a loan from the EOT and it has worked perfectly since then. The goal of the loan was to upgrade. It has been fully upgraded, completely renovated, and yet now there is this gap of concession again from ETAD to the Municipality of Haidari, because the twenty-year concession has expired since 2017. I would therefore ask you to tell me why all this is stuck and why you commit yourself to solve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I believe it is necessary to refer to the history of the property that you refer to in your question. This is a property which is not a public property within the Ministry of Finance, but is owned by the EOT, which was granted in 1997 to the Municipality of Heidari without consideration for a period of 20 years under a loan agreement. The concession concerned a territory of forty-two thousand eight hundred square meters, with camping, the tourist stand, their general facilities and mobile equipment. The aim of the concession was to develop and upgrade this area through the operation of a restaurant and refreshment, as well as the possibility of organising cultural events by the municipality. The municipality itself requested that it should be given the right to rent the facilities to a private person. The EBRD in 2003 approved the request conditional on the return to it by the deceased municipal company of 5% on the contractual lease agreed by the renting of the tourist kiosk. The debt should be paid 15 days after the end of each contract year. This obligation was not fulfilled. This is due to the involvement, because when the municipality requested the renewal of the concession for twenty years, the EBRD made the repayment of the debt conditional. In addition, the EBRD requested the municipality to deliver the property no later than 31 August 2017. The municipality did not respond and only in 2019 paid part of its debt of EUR 33,345,90. The municipality’s debt is currently EUR 51.089.80. By letter about two and a half months ago, in particular, on 16 December 2020, it invited the Municipality of Haidario to hand over the concessiond property and to provide all relevant leases it has entered into through its municipal business for the use of the tourist stand with a third counterparty for the years 2016 to 2020. In this letter, the EBRD pointed out that the examination of any request by the municipality concerning the re-purpose of the property is subject to repayment in full of its financial obligations to the EBRD. What some need to understand is that since 2016 the framework within which the EBRD operates has changed. This framework has been changed by Article 184 of Law No.4389/2016, i.e. the Law on the Establishment of the Overseas Fund that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has promoted and voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are talking about an agreement made in 2003. As you know, the economic situation of the municipalities since 2009-2010 is tragic. Their resources have fallen by a huge proportion, more than 30%. Some people talk about more than half of it. They can't afford to pay off. The management's own decisions have led to a reduction in resources. And their own ability to repay has been reduced. Don't you accept that? Don't you understand? Isn't it a reality? Are we moving into different realities? Isn't that the real situation in the municipalities? You refer to the SYRIZA law and the transfer of the surplus, which is why we are already discussing the question together, otherwise we would put it at the Ministry of Tourism. The question is whether we treat municipalities as any other business. Is that how we understand it? SYRIZA has been telling us for so long that the superstition has the majority that it manages the Greek State's privatisation. Do you think the superstition is in Greek hands or isn't it? Tell us. Because if you consider it to be, you are the one who draws up policy, and so this policy should distinguish a business with a municipality. I think we're asking for self-evident things. We would like you to be a little more clear. You know that the Municipality of Haidari - I have brought up to date on this issue - has a difficult economic situation, like most of Greece's municipalities. I think that, as has been done earlier by my colleague on the subject of focus, we should not give the citizens and municipalities who are in difficulty to give them the gift shot. And we should not do this in a local society that has such a critical resource in its hands. I am talking about the narrows of the Daphne, an integral part of which is the holiday centre. Let me remind you that it's between the two gardens of Dimomedus and the Monastery of Daphne. There's almost a huge part of the Sacred Road in front of them. He's a resource for the development of this area. It is a resource for its development as a central archaeological tourist destination by the development of the walk, the last protected natural part of the Holy Road. Give this opportunity to these people to do it. Don't give them the gift shot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Arseni. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u110	Mr Colleague, as you are aware, EBRD is now a subsidiary of the Supreme Fund. By Article 184 of Law No.4389/2016, the Hellenic Company of Participants and Property S.A. was established. We are talking about the well-known superstition, where the entire real estate of the public has been located for ninety years. The EBRD has also joined it, since this law determines the transfer of the full ownership of the company to the supranational, while maintaining its legal status. As you all understand, the company operates in accordance with the rules of the private economy. This means that, for property such as the property at issue, linked to the tourism and commercial exploitation, a concession can in principle no longer be made without consideration, as was the case in the past. There are rules for the functioning of the EBRD linked to corporate governance, the Code of Conduct, the keeping of accounting standards. This issue between EBRD and the municipality must be resolved immediately, especially when there are unpaid municipal debts. The municipality should come in touch with the EBRD, pay off its debt and present an operational and investment plan for the realisation and concession of the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much. We're entering the next question. It is the fifth under No 445/16-2-2021 timely question of the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliardou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Extractive and inadequate compensation for the bad weather "Janus". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much for your presence, Minister. Before I refer to my question, let me ask for your help on a serious issue that has been created on the market with the example of a company producing Greek clothes and selling them on a network of its own retail shops. In the present case, it is not compensated for the rents of its branches closed by the Government because it has been registered as a craftsman and not a retailer. This is how it becomes the victim of unfair competition, which needs to be corrected immediately. Warm request to make sure, otherwise these businesses will not survive. Let us now refer to my question. On 18 September 2020, during the bad weather “Janus”, extensive flooding took place in Karditsi and Larissa, especially in their southern part, in the municipalities of Mousakio, Sofadon and Palama, in the city of Karditsa, as well as in the municipality of Farsalon and Enipea by the Prefecture of Larissa. For all we're saying, we're going to file a document in the Minutes. A similar question about the Farsala was tabled by the President of the Greek Solution without having received an answer. They surpassed streams in the area, resulting in flooding large rural areas. In addition to the destruction of crops, combustible materials included hazardous and toxic substances such as pesticides, chemicals, mud, sewage, etc., which must be cleaned before re-production. Incidentally, we must refer to a new source of possible contamination by the photovoltaics, which are now uncontrolled, spread over high productivity agricultural land, doubting that it is limited to the 1% rate mentioned in this law. We had tabled a question with number 403/12-10-2020 on whether measurements have been made on the escape of dangerous materials containing, in which neither the Minister of Development, Mr Voridis at that time, nor the Minister for Energy, Mr Hatzidakis, answered. The first one declared unauthorized, while the second one was indifferent. At the same time, no damage has been compensated for in vehicles such as agricultural machinery or cars. For example, we have received several complaints about IX vehicles of professionals and businesses declared in the area or found for work in the city of Carditsa from Athens and elsewhere, which were not compensated. We had been concerned at the first moment about whether the insurance companies would compensate them, even if they were insured, which did not happen, so that the time-consuming and costly legal proceedings will be extinguished. As you can see, they cannot or are not all prepared to engage in such processes, so the damage is increasing, especially for communities and for agricultural production at risk of abandonment. Our questions here are as follows: Firstly, how will you ensure the restoration of a large part of the citizens' property, taking account of the movable elements? What amounts have been allocated for this purpose? Why not include the IX cars that were found there, because, obviously, they belong to their fixed assets exactly provided for by the law? Secondly, how will you ensure that damages are repaid by insurance companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, Mr Villard, thank you for the question. I think I'm going to give you an answer to your questions. As you know, the restoration of damages and compensation for 'January' wounded is an issue that the government has dealt with as a top priority. After the event of 'Janu', the Prime Minister visited - as you remember - without delay the affected areas and gave the necessary guidelines for the immediate mobilisation of the entire state apparatus. More than thirty ministerial decisions, amendments, administrative acts for the rapid support of the affected were adopted in the first month. With regard to your specific questions, I would like to inform you of the following: The amount of EUR 60,483,400 has already been transferred to municipalities in Thessaly from the national part of the Public Investment Programme for projects to rehabilitate and address damage. The municipalities of Thessaly have also been subsidised with EUR 9,065,000 for compensation for the first needs of households. In addition, one-off aid in the form of an allowance is now granted to natural persons and firms affected. The aid for affected natural persons amounts to EUR 5 000 for each housing and EUR 8 000 for each business. To date, the sum of EUR 36,493.266 has been paid to affected natural persons and the sum of 41,736,000 to affected enterprises and the grant of allowances continues. With regard to the provision of housing assistance for the restoration of buildings and buildings, the procedure for submitting applications has been initiated and continued while covering the costs of temporary dwellings of residents whose dwellings have been affected, the conditions for granting rent and accommodation subsidies have been laid down by the relevant CFD. With regard to the grant of enterprises affected by natural disasters, which is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, an amount of damage to undertakings for buildings, equipment, raw materials, goods and lorries of public and private vehicles registered as damaged shall be compensated. Regarding your question about IX cars in local companies, I would like to tell you that, since they are owned by companies and are registered in the relevant Commission for the Registration and Assessment of Damages, they are also compensated, provided they are used exclusively for the uninterrupted operation of the company. With the amendment of the legislative framework, we have enabled the grant to be paid in advance in order to provide a substantial amount directly to the affected. More specifically - in the areas mentioned - for Karditsa there are five CSRs, with an advance of EUR 4.348.671 in eight hundred eighty-one businesses, for Larissa four CSRs, with an advance of EUR 494,000 in a hundred ninety-five companies. More specifically for infrastructure, by decision of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, a project was set up with a total budget of EUR 150,000,000 on ‘rehabilitation of damage on roads, bridges, restoration of pragmats and execution of convoys of markings, protection and safety works, drainage of rivers...’ etc., which, as you know, have been caused by the ‘January’ in the Cardiacas Regional Unit on a road length of 50 km. These work includes cleaning up of dirt and rivers. Also, in the context of the counter-flood protection of the mainland motorway and its adjacent areas, additional work amounting to EUR 70,000,000 has been approved with funding from the national part of the Public Investment Programme, so that the most urgent anti-milling projects can be launched immediately. With regard to compensation to farmers, farmers for affected crops and livestock, the payment of compensation to beneficiaries of the Carditsa and Larissa Regional Units of EUR 35,334,000 has been completed. All this was done within four months of the occurrence of the catastrophic phenomenon, as defined by the government directive. Furthermore - and I close, Mr President - these areas are mainly located in stored products, irrigation systems, fixed vegetable capital and an increased capital of losses which are part of State financial aid and which will be supported through the State budget. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] In particular, for the above losses, three thousand seven hundred eighteen damage claims were submitted to the Region of Thessaly. The project is coordinated by local regions after the setting-up of three-member committees and is in progress. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I didn't understand well. Has this money been given, or have decisions been made? You tell me in dentistry. Also, why did you refer only to cars for private use by local companies? It may have been a company, for example, from Athens or from Patras, whose employee was found in Carditsa and damaged his car. Aren't they going to be compensated? Isn't it the same? Isn't it fixed for a company, like, advice, which was found there? Now, with regard to the rest as a cause of the flood, increased flows in the Acheloos diversion tunnel, as we have been informed by our Minister of Infrastructure about the disasters in Mousaki Karditsa, as well as the barrier of the river Enipeas in Farsalon Prefecture. The phenomenon is not new, but known to the inhabitants of the region according to their testimony. For example, there was a danger of flooding in 2015 in the Farsalon Superiority from the Enepea River. The reason for this is that there is no direct obstruction of the events, as in the past, but they must now be carried out by the municipalities or by the central government for the improvement of projects. It is misleading to say that all of this is attributed to climate change, such as the failure of the government's economic policy on the coronary. It's the same. Instead of spending money on lignite and on the RES in order to reduce carbon dioxide by 2030, money should be invested today in voluntarily. It is noted that even after Janus, recently in January, flooding phenomena were repeated in the municipality of Enipea Larissa. In response to a recent question from SYRIZA, it was stated that the final counting of the affected areas was three hundred thousand acres, while seventeen thousand ninety ten declarations of damage to farms were filed. If I'm not mistaken, you said another number. It was also declared by the Minister for Rural Development that 27.6m euros were given to date for the restoration of agricultural land, as well as 3.2m euros for irrigation projects. This corresponds to EUR 90 a acre without equipment or EUR 1540 per declaration, which you understand is extremely low for all this damage caused. In addition, the Ministry of Finance promised some funds to restore infrastructure, such as roads which are also important for the supply of the regions, as well as for the transport of agricultural products and supplies. In relation to the losses to households, according to an assessment by the Association of Insurance Companies of Greece, it is limited only to those insured. As far as all the damages are concerned, we will submit a specific report from the association in the minutes. However, only 15% of Greece's dwellings are secured for fire, theft and natural disasters. Also, the same is true of several private cars. Their real costs will be multiple, reaching hundreds of millions, which means eight to nine times more than the insured. The affected under Law 4728/2002 are only EUR 5,000 per residential and EUR 8 000 per enterprise, and only EUR 600 have recently been approved for auxiliary facilities. There was no provision from the General Accounting Office of the State for the amounts that would be allocated but in the bill 46.9 million had been spent on suspensions of contracts of employment in enterprises, namely the SURE programme you mentioned. Our questions here are as follows. How will you directly repair Thessaly's irrigation system to prevent flooding and restore the road network? What amounts have been specifically allocated? Secondly, at what stage is depollution of agricultural land and how do you support it? What sums have been allocated? Thirdly, how much money has been spent on compensation for agricultural establishments and their financing, perhaps also indirectly, not only directly, by reducing VAT, abolishing the green charge on agricultural oil or the repayable advance rejected by half of farmers? I'll submit it to the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say that, as I said before, the CSMs have already gone through and the relevant procedures are moving quickly. Disbursement goes on and on. With regard to the specific issues of IX, as you have in mind, each time the relevant Committee is judged on a case-by-case basis and examined on a case-by-case basis. That's what's going on. There are some gradual disbursements, but as far as farmers are concerned, we know that crops have already been paid for. In some areas businesses have received huge sums of money from business and from the region. I would also like to say that in the case of the 'January' the state mechanism has moved rapidly, as you know. Of course, not all projects and procedures have been completed, because as I said before, they have started and are moving forward. All state support for the affected 'January' regions reaches 600m euros. These measures do not include suspension of the tax obligations, suspension of the regulation of the credit obligations on customers of the municipalities affected in cooperation with the Union of Greek Banks, the possibility of participating in the repayable advance of the firms affected, suspension for one year of the auctions and seizures of natural legal persons in the affected areas and protection by providing financial support of EUR 534 to the employees who have been suspended. I would also like to point out that we, as the Ministry of Finance, have done what is necessary to improve the institutional framework in order to simplify and speed up the process of granting the firms affected. Firstly, we have enabled the committees of the regions that assess and record damage to enterprises affected by natural disasters and with members of permanent and private law of indefinite duration of civil and public services, as well as members of the Technical Chamber of Greece, the Hellenic Chamber of Economics and the Hellenic Chamber of Geotechnicals. Secondly, in exceptional cases where significant and extensive damages occur both in number of affected enterprises and in the size of disasters, we have enabled an advance to be made against the total amount of the grant. In order to speed up the process, this amendment allows the region to submit every fortnight to the relevant directorate of the Ministry of Finance with firms affected and for which the assessment and recording of losses has been completed, so that the so-called enterprise grant certificates can be issued continuously and continuously in line with the progress made in recording the losses by the Committee. To conclude, I would like to say that it is now necessary for the best service of the citizens to be provided with a certificate of first instance for non-bankruptcy issued in the last three months and not in one month as it was. We have had the opportunity to explain to previous questions and other related issues that significant facilities have been given at the moment through the legislative framework that speed up the operation of the state mechanism, but above all help our affected citizens and businesses in time. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, too, Minister. Will the tenth third under number 464/22-2-2021 be discussed and a topical question by the Member of the Elijah Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Will the guarantors remain hostage even if the debtors repay their loans or liquidate their assets?' The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the question concerns an issue which touches thousands of our fellow citizens throughout the country, but for which nothing has been done in the last eleven years. In a bad position, therefore, the guarantors of the bank loan debtors are located as they remain liable to all or part of their debt to the creditor. This is even the case where the debt is settled, repaid or brought into bankruptcy in accordance with the law recently passed by the parliamentary majority. In order to become more specific on the basis of the provisions of Law 3869/2010, the well-known and law of Katseli, the rights of the creditor to the guarantor are not affected even where the debtor has achieved a judicial decision to regulate his debt, to exempt from the balance of the debt and to satisfy the arrangement until its completion, with the result that the guarantor has to repay the balance of the debt, while the debtor has been definitively relieved. That's unprecedented. But also on the basis of Law 4748, the new bankruptcy of the guarantor and after the bankruptcy of the debtor continues to be liable to the creditor, irrespective of any exemption from the first debtor who has been bankrupt and liquidated in the whole of his assets. At a time when private debt exceeds EUR 240 billion and debtors can be exempted by bankruptcy and liquidating their entire property or by paying off part of the debt on the basis of a judicial decision, the guarantors were, are, and unfortunately will remain hostage since no regulation has been passed on to them. Two questions: Do you intend to release the guarantors when the debtor liquidates the entire property after bankruptcy, or when the debtor has repaid all of his debt on the basis of a judicial decision of the Katseli Act? And the second: will you take relief and facilitation measures for guarantors, in the context of all private debt arrangements? Unfortunately, the guarantors are absent from any favourable regulation that has been taken over recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Katrin, I would like to make it clear that we take into account the citizens' economic potential - and, as we know, they are not all the same - when measures of financial assistance and facilities are taken to further support natural persons, companies affected by pandemic cases. And, as you know, the government is very sensitive to these issues, which are of fundamental importance, to social cohesion and to the social fabric. The Ministry of Finance has carried out - as you know, and we have discussed several times in great detail - targeted actions aimed at addressing the private debt problem that households and businesses have to face, regardless of their status as first-time contractors, contractors or guarantors. I would like to point out to you that the guarantor has assumed responsibility for full repayment of the debts of the first debtor and, therefore, debts are understood to be his, in accordance with current legislation at all times. It is therefore not possible to automatically exempt it from these debts, without being repaid or made redundant or to make use of the so-called ‘second opportunity’. Because the potential debt relief of the first debtor due to financial weakness does not automatically mean, as you know, that the guarantor is exempted, who should prove that he has an economic weakness himself, so that he can be exempted. Otherwise, it will have to repay those debts. Already so far a number of measures have been taken to relieve and facilitate debtors, including guarantors. I would like to mention a few of them: firstly, the suspension of the payment of instalments to credit institutions. With the MAGP of 30 March 2020 on measures to address the COVID Pandemic -19 and other provisions, the possibility of a three-month suspension of payments until 30-6-2020 was granted under the arrangements of a number of laws. Therefore, all natural and legal persons in the cases defined by the MLP were entitled to suspend payment of the instalments of their regulated information debts. Furthermore, the Association of Greek Banks with its Communication of 7 July 2020 notified the decision of its Greek banks to extend the existing support measures to the Greek economy due to the adverse consequences of the pandemic. What did they do more specifically? They went on to all the natural and legal persons who have proved to be affected by the crisis in suspension of the instalments of capital and/or the interest payments of loans initially until 30 December 2020, after, of course, a request by the parties concerned. On 3-12-2020 the Hellenic Banking Association with a new communication notified the decision of its members to extend the support measures until 31 March 2021. Furthermore, with regard to enforcement measures, the temporary suspension of all enforcement procedures, such as seizures and auctions, has been extended until 1-3-2021. Therefore, debtors, including guarantors, are not at risk of seizures and auctions at present. In addition, from 1-8-2020 the GEOFYRA programme was established, which concerns subsidising loans with mortgages at the first residence of those affected by the adverse effects of the coronary pandemic. Of course, this means that there is support for borrowers, including guarantors, in serving their loans so that all of this can help prevent any auctions that could be made at their expense. Therefore, as you can see, a wide range of support measures for borrowers have been taken into account and activated. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u123	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u124	Minister, I did not ask you what measures the government has taken - and to be precise - the measures announced by the Greek Banking Union for Lending Banks in the pandemic period. These are well-known, well-known what the government has legislated and are well-known for what the government has not legislated and decided on by the Greek Banking Union. Because you cannot appear here as a support measure for guarantors to freeze the instalments of debtors or suspend the enforcement measures, which, since they do not apply to debtors, are obviously not the case for guarantors. I asked you two specific questions with two specific cases, which you did not answer. The first was that when the debtor adopts a regulation by a judicial decision, it repays the amount at issue from the court and is repaid for the remainder of the debtor's debt, the guarantor, who is unprecedented, especially if we see the percentage at which the loans are sold to the funds and then the funds come and ask for the full amount to be recovered. And the second is that in the bankruptcy code when the debtor, who will declare bankruptcy, liquidate the entire assets of the debtor, is relieved of the balance of his debts, the guarantor of the debtor will remain liable not only of the remainder, but possibly also of the total amount of the debtor's loan. While the debtor is therefore relieved in both cases, the guarantor remains held hostage. So that's what the state can't see and say, "What can we do? We have enacted a law on the debtor, which we exempt from part of the debt or from the whole either by court decision of the Katseli Act or by liquidation of the property, but the guarantor will pay all the rest." I will read you a case only very soon. I've got all the paperwork here, and then I'll testify. We have a borrower who, in a bank institution in a consumer loan - these, Minister, you know that 4% of the consumer funds are sold - has signed a guarantor's wife to a loan with an addition to her residence. The debtor appeals to the law of Katseli, the court ruling is opening an auction on the debtor's house - it is not the main residence - his house is auctioned and a sum is paid for five years, which the debtor pays normally. So it pays off all the obligations to all banks, including the one to which the wife is a guarantor, it asks for a discharge document from the bank, it does not give it to him in time, it asks for funds, anyway, to be made wrong. While the balances of loans on the basis of a judicial decision have been repaid, in October the bank informs both the debtor and the guarantor that the loans have been transferred to the funds. The debtor has all the expropriations from the other credit institutions in which he has the instalments laid down in the judgment, i.e. the debtor has repaid all of his obligations under the judicial decision. He gets discharge and applies to the court for a certificate of discharge of his own and his wife, who is a guarantor of a consumer loan, which he has repaid on the basis of the decision. The court testifies to the debt relief from all existing debts, but does not exempt the wife, because she was not a party - it says - in the original trial of the Katseli Act. And he sends-- be careful now! - the guarantor owes EUR 45 000, of which EUR 25 500 is the initial capital and EUR 19 500 is the interest. In other words, the debtor has made a court ruling that he has been completely relieved and the guarantor in the amount that was 25,500 euros today asks him to pay 45,000 euros. That is incomprehensible, Minister. A fair solution has to be found for guarantors when debtors are exempted. And especially when the loans on which they are booked have been transferred to the funds purchased at 4% and 5% of the value, they cannot currently demand 150%, 170% and 180% of the initial capital. This must be a solution. It is a serious aspect of debt regulation and you cannot answer me that ‘What can we do? The guarantors shall repay the entire debt.’; Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Catherine. I would like to say that what you requested is a response based on existing and existing legislation. I think I gave you a very clear and clear answer of what is happening. You also know that this legislation has recently been adopted by the National Representation. The fact that you are currently bringing a particular case, which may be about others, is a matter for implementation which the Ministry of Finance will be very careful to see. At the moment, however, the situation that I described is true. I would also like to say on the occasion of my dentistry, Madam President, that measures are still in place which are institutional instruments to regulate debts in support of borrowers, debtors, guarantors, as is, for example, the Code of Conduct of banks, whereby the fixed and definite out-of-court settlement procedure of borrowers' debts, against banks, is always in place, on the basis of their ability to repay them. Also, a revised law, Law No.3869/2010, is still in force to regulate the debts of overdue households. Also under Law 4605/2019, the repayment grant scheme for housing and business loans was implemented with a principal mortgage, where the eligible debtors could apply on the electronic platform until 31-7-2020. In addition, Law 4469/2019 introduced an out-of-court settlement mechanism for the use of which the debtors of certain professional categories could also apply on the electronic platform until 30 April 2020. From the above institutional and legal framework, I think it is possible to see that there is always in the service of every citizen with an economic weakness, whether he is a debtor or a guarantor, a grid of debt arrangements and protection of the first home, on the basis of which the auctions are prevented. Finally, I would like to say and make a separate reference to No 4738/2020, the new institutional framework for bankruptcies of natural and legal persons and their debt relief, the so-called'second chance'. This framework replaces all existing individual temporary debt instruments that existed to date. In particular, the Code of Defaulting and Provision of Second-Term Opportunities, among others, establishes procedures for the early warning of citizens in the context of prevention. An integrated automated debt adjustment framework is introduced through an out-of-court mechanism. The possibility of a second chance is given by rapid procedures, by deleting the balance of debts, by liquidating the entire assets and by controlling the debtor’s assets. Provisions are incorporated to identify the strategic malpractices - which are very important - and to predict their consequences. There are provisions for borrowers belonging to vulnerable social groups. The resolution framework shall be modernised. They are liberated and exploited by the productive units of the country that are committed to endless, as you know, regulation and bankruptcy procedures. And a solution is provided to non-performing loans. Finally, it is necessary to exempt the members of the management of a legal person who has been bankrupt in order not to be enclosed for debts belonging to the undertaking. As you are aware, financial mediation is being promoted. We're reviewing technology by automated processes. We are introducing arrangements for improving the Insolvency Managers' Institution. Therefore, debtors, including guarantors, may deal with all their debts and avoid seizures and auctions through the possibility of adjusting or exempting their debts, as provided for in the new law. As you will see, far too large steps have been taken in this area to modernise the institutional framework with always the aim of facilitating and protecting our fellow citizens. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too, Minister. Let's go to the fourth with number 465/22-2-2021 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Restart the clinical exercise of students in the medical schools of the country". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on the basis of the curriculum of the University of Crete Medical School, students of the last two years should be conducted exclusively at a clinic at the "University General Hospital of Heraklion". There are, of course, other courses in the other six medical schools in the country. The clinical exercise of five-year medical students and pathology and surgery is vital to gain the knowledge and experience that will allow them to attend the six-year specialist clinics that last thirty-two weeks. Any student exercise, either a clinic or a laboratory, cannot under any circumstances be replaced by tele-education - I think you can understand - and it is necessary, typical and essential, for the continuation of their studies. However, students in medical schools have been excluded from clinical exercise since the beginning of the academic year, with the pretext of measures to deal with pandemic. This blockade, however, can lead to an escalation of their studies, loss of six months or even of the year with unbearable consequences for them and their families. Consequently, the suspension of clinical activity poses serious problems as a whole in the functioning of the training process. In particular, students are allocated to university clinics on the basis of the prerequisites which each student has completed in the first four years of study. Thus, unless the clinical exercise of five-year students is immediately reinitiated, four-year students and those who lost the clinical exercise due to the Government's decisions should exercise in September 2021. It is challenging that students who in a year and a half are doctors are deprived of their basic education because over so many months the government does not discuss and return to clinics because it has taken no measure to strengthen the public health system in front of the pandemic, nor has it financed higher education so that universities can safely open up, by meeting these needs, in our view, as a cost. So we ask you, Minister, what measures does the government intend to take to: Start immediately and safely with all necessary health protection measures for teachers and teachers the clinical and laboratory exercise of students in medical schools in the country. Make permanent recruitments of all necessary LPIS members for effective education. Integrate students into the vaccination plan, with free, regular and repeated tests of workers and students and adequate personal protective equipment. Finally, an extraordinary fund for universities to meet the needs of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleague, you refer to a very serious issue, which, unfortunately, does not concern only the clinical exercises of students in medicine, it concerns a wider field of practice, clinical and laboratory exercises in many areas of higher education institutions. When the particular pandemic we are still experiencing broke out a year ago, he said that there would be a committee of experts to advise the government because the first thing we are interested in is the health of the citizens. In this context, the panel of experts was recommended and the Government agreed that there should be restrictions on the conduct of the teaching process in universities. Thus, in accordance with the recent Joint Ministerial Decision, adopted last Saturday, all types of educational process are to be suspended in a natural presence, including the practical exercise of students, with the exception of the possibility of conducting clinical exercises in the last year of the study programmes in the first cycle of classes of health sciences in IEI. On the basis of this suggestion, we are in a process of finding a solution with the panel of experts, in order to find a solution not only to the seniors, as mentioned in this joint ministerial decision, but also to the five-year students of the School of Medicine and not only to the School of Medicine, but also to the other health scientists, such as - for example - the Nursing or Midwives. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] We are therefore trying to find the best solution, unfortunately, at this point in time, the epidemiological conditions are not the best way to deal with the problem. In addition, we have tabled a proposal which will allow other practical exercises to be carried out, for example, in municipalities and in special schools for pedagogical departments. But all this depends on the development of the pandemic. It is obvious that because we are actually "fashioning" the third wave of pandemic, we must be extremely careful not to see situations that have occurred in other countries. In my dentistry, I will deal in particular with the permanent members of the IMPs that you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u132	Minister, because you referred to the Committee of Experts advising the Government, did the Committee of Experts advise the Government that it should not do the clinical exercises in the fifth year, but that it should do so in the sixth year? That's the one question. The second question which objectively arises is why is it allowed only in the sixth year to do clinical exercises and not in the fifth year? You say that you are looking for a solution and even the best, as you say, but it is not possible at this stage. When will it be possible, Minister? When? A week ago, in the debate on a corresponding timely question from the board with Mr. Delis asked you the question, and at that time, why only clinical exercises in the sixth year of medicine, medical schools, and not in the fifth year. It's the same as I'm putting you now. Your answer at that time was: "I must admit that this is a reasonable question. All this will be examined in the next period by the Committee of Experts in order to restore the operation, etc...’; You're telling us the same thing today. Yeah, but that's where the weather goes, and soon it'll be shut down in semester, so where the job goes. You need to take immediate action. In our view, that is not an answer. Since December 2020, the county of the School of Medicine of Crete has highlighted the problem and that all years there is an international practice of dealing with the five-year and six-year-old students of medicine. As seniors, they are allocated to university clinics, in this case the University Hospital of Heraklion, for their clinical exercise for the last four semesters, based on a specific single programme. Secondly, from 19-1-2021 you, as well as from 14-1-2021, have received Mrs Kerameos and Mr Kikilis a letter of five students from the seven medical schools of Greece, as well as a corresponding letter from the Presidents of Medical Schools from 14-1-2021 - I will present them in the Minutes - while five-year student mobilisations were carried out calling for a clinical exercise in the spring six-month period under conditions that protect the health of students and patients with primary vaccination of students. In other words, they demand the replacement of lost clinical exercises and ask you to present them immediately - then they said it - the plan, the plan of government to ensure the teaching process and clinical education. In other words, you are telling us that today is not possible, but you are not presenting us with a plan. What do you have in mind? How, in view of the situation, will you deal with it? And you're answering 'we'll see, if and since epidemiological evolution and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The fifth year students are three months on the margin of education and despite the efforts at both local and pan-Hellenic level, they find closed doors. I repeat that in a year and a half these people will be doctors, while at the same time lacking basic things in their education, while at the same time we see that your main concern is how the police get inside, the MATs. Openly, in other words, universities for the repression forces, closed for their students and their studies. And that goes on. And it's not only the bill you've been through, but there are complaints - I don't want to extend it, of course, but I'm telling you since we're having this conversation - that after this suppression bed at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, police officers in Chania invaded student houses by exercising terrorism and incubating students and in and out of their homes. In other words, even'safety' cars, 'insurers' with political and'safety' cars without distinction exercise a kind of terrorism using methods, let me have the word 'abduction' of students. In other words, they were taken to security for hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u134	So, when we come back to the original question, we ask you this: Is it too much, it is utopian, it is a magical picture of what the university community wants, that is, the self-evident one, to open the universities and schools? Universities, in our view, can, of course, refunction safely and in these circumstances, based on the priorities of the university community and all measures to protect public health. That is what has to be done, that is what you do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u136	Mr Colleague, let me make a very brief comment on what happened at the Aristotle University. I would remind you that that is where we occupied the area. When the university dean found that the arrests had been thrown out of the university and then that they had broken doors and had passed into places that had no direct access, he called the police.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u137	It is now called "supplier" the main dean of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki! That's a characterization he owns from the students, not me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u138	You know what? This for the "supplier" is what creates the problems in the Greek AEI today. The dean who will do his job, suddenly has the title, is a "supervisor", appears with a whipping mustache, because - be careful!, implement the law! That's where we've arrived! Without understanding it, you are playing the role of these extreme groups with which you, in your honor, do not identify yourself and which want the bazaar in the universities. You're playing their game! You called this man a'supplier'. No matter what he did, he was "shoulder". He was the'supplier', he was the 'co-worker'. Don't you realize that you legalize these groups? Now I'm going to the point you asked me about. You asked me if it was utopian to open the EHS. The answer is 'yes'. Under the present circumstances, it is utopian to open all the HEIs, and that is why we have said that all the spring semester will be done by teleworking. Let us see why it was just for the sixth year. Because when the decision was taken, we did not know that a second wave would come, and above all we did not know that a third wave was coming. For this reason, the original thought was only for the sixth year. Since then, we have also discussed the fifth year, namely, for all those doing clinical exercises and we hope that in a short time we will be able to move forward. Under what terms? Under the condition of being vaccinated first. Let me clarify that students of medicine in the sixth year, for example, at "PAGNIS" in Heraklion, Crete, are all vaccinated, according to a text sent to us by the University of Crete. Therefore, our aim is to open up the clinical exercise in the fifth year. But don't stay only in the Medical School, because there are other health sciences. The aim is to open them up too. He needs attention. We are a "three" of success in failure. We see what happens, how easily pandemic can escape. So there is a need for very careful steps to be taken. I wish it were the ideal conditions, so we can move on to everything. I believe in March that we should be able to make announcements specific to all practical exercises, clinical exercises. exercises for both the Midwives and the Nursing, as well as exercises of specialists involved in pharmaceutical schools, educational departments and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Minister. We will now discuss the seventh under No 458/22-2-2021 topical question by the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminas to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Indiscriminate the omission of the use of volunteer fire extinguishers'. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Undersecretary, for ten years with Law 4029/2011, the functional integration of volunteer fire extinguishers was predicted in the operational design of the Fire Corps, which meant a substantial upgrading of the role of the voluntary firefighter due to his practical contribution to the mission of the Fire Corps. However, according to the collective body of volunteer fire extinguishers, but also to individual reports that have come from all parts of the country, this significant human potential remains untapped. This is a worthy example of this independent attitude and the command of the Headquarters of the Fire Corps, dated 3 November 2020, asking not to be part of the planning of fire-fighting stations by the fire-fighting volunteers who are serving there. Although they are a body fully trained, and the omission of volunteer fire extinguishers from the vaccinations is indicative. According to reports, neither were they recently exploited in the face of the effects of the bad weather "Medea", while these people have a total number of two thousand, two thousand, two hundred people across the country and about four hundred in Attica. Finally, since 2011- since Law 4029- the issue of the ministerial decision is pending, which will define the specifications and modalities of these people's uniforms, as described in Article 20(3). So I ask you two questions: Have the volunteer firefighters exploited the recent disasters of "Medea"? If not, why? When are you going to allow them to return to the shifts and when are you going to make the ministerial decision on the specifications for their uniforms? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u141	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u142	Your Honor, the truth is that in your suggestion you have been making a reasonable leap since 2011. You say that in 2011, volunteers' operations were planned to be integrated into firefighters, and you ask us when we are going to proceed. From November 2 - quite rightly you say - there is an order from the Headquarters that actually excludes them from the shifts. There's nothing more reasonable. Why is there no reasonable reason? Our volunteers, who are looking for exceptional respect for what they are doing and what they are offering - are we talking about the volunteers of the Fire Corps - what do they have? Their obligation is at least three departments per month. At the same time, they have the same right of other jobs. Imagine in the midst of a pandemic, two thousand twenty people moving in two thousand twenty business spaces and at the same time moving on the shifts of headquarters or on the shifts of fire stations! It would be a health bomb, which we couldn't manage. For pure reasons, therefore, health protocols have been excluded from shifts. The “Medea” did not show the need to activate the mechanism, because any arrhythmias in the “Medea” were not related to the Fire Corps, how much more so that the Fire Corps, especially in the specific situation that was created, was in the front line of battle. It triggered mechanisms from all over Attica, from all the neighbouring prefectures, so that we can help the work of the TEN and the municipalities, and effectively contribute to the gaps that existed, to the arrhythmias that had been created. Obviously, once all these situations have been completed, which concern the treatment of pandemic, they will return and hopefully be at the beginning of the anti-missile period so that their experience, their strength, the zeal they have shown once again, can make use of it. Now, in relation to the uniforms, it has a value for us, that is, you're saying something quite rightly, that since 2011, the relevant law has been created so far, the costume regulation has not been finalised. Obviously! Because all these years there was no regulation. Who's to blame for not having a regulation? With Law 4662 here we have given the possibility of creating a regulation, which you will forgive me, but you voted against it against No 4662. Where are we now? We are in a phase that we have been mandated for three months, the Headquarters is on course and you can be certain that the regulation will be ready by the end of March. The voluntary firefighters themselves know that, because their trade union organization - worthwhile children, fighters - in consultation with the Headquarters is being informed of the course and have made concrete proposals, so that there is also the appropriate consultation on protective measures and on their own. In any case, I understand whatever anguish exists, but the answers are very simple and are nothing but the defence of public health, in relation to their lack of use on shifts, and the lack of regulation on uniforms, which was healed by the legislative initiative that we have just spent a year here, so that this issue can go further too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u144	Therefore, Minister, I assume that by the end of March the regulation will have been adopted and will provide for the uniforms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u145	It's the rules of procedure for uniforms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u146	Good. So there is a clear commitment on this. Otherwise, let me wonder why so many thousands of people could not be used during the "Medea", as if they were overstaffing the staff. Truth, now making an account of what happened, you sent the "Norway" project almost a year after taking up your duties. You do not ensure tight timetables for its implementation. For example, the Municipality of Mandudi - Agia Anna Lake, where we had two dead, approved the plan, as imposed by your circular, only on January 26, the adjoining Municipality of Diorfos - Messapiononia on February 17. The Municipality of Dionysus in Attica, which was hit to a very large extent, does not yet seem to have approved the plan. Have mistakes been made, in your opinion, during the "Medea" operations? What are the conclusions we can draw? I say this because there are meteorologists now who point out to us that it is not excluded within the next few days, within the first half of March, to infuse a new bad weather in the country. There's another matter. Too many of those who have remained on power for days have been calling the five-digit number of the IEDN. They waited too long for the answer. This expectation was needed and we have people who have not only been out of power for days, but are now being asked to pay an additional account - I have an indicative amount of EUR 32. The Municipality of Brissia intends to sue the DEDENE by asking for the money. And I leave last of the irregular vaccinations that took place in Thessaloniki. Twenty-four people were vaccinated out of procedure and are obliged to resign from the Municipality of Thessaloniki. Have you made sure that justice is informed and prosecuted? We are all assured that there is an electronic management for the soundness and transparency of the whole process. How did these twenty - four suddenly come out? Ms. Vicky Naku, chairman of the board of directors of the Centre for Social Welfare of Central Macedonia, said in this connection that when the process was completed in the two institutions under its responsibility, EGEY found that there were indisposed vaccines and urged doctors to see if there were any others who wish to make these vaccines. He says in a few words that it is the responsibility of the EGE what has happened. Do you share this view? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u148	Madam President, the question has been changed for volunteer firefighters to three other topical questions. I am happy to reply to you, we will simply not be able to have the real debate that it needs on these issues. You are aggressing us for the 'Norway' project. In other words, you are abducting us because, after decades that the country did not have a general plan to deal with and manage a snow crisis in November 2020, the civil protection services presented the first general plan that the Hellenic Republic had. So there was an excellent first step to cover the big question of coordination and overlaps? 100%! But we were not left alone in this plan. We went ahead and made a special plan to help the country's Ottawas because of the lack of money they can have for studies or for specific projects, and we gave it ready for them to adapt their own services, with all our own plans to form an electronic base, the national base, which is provided for in Law 4662, so that we can get electronically and digitally accessible to all project machines, all possibilities, all services, and we can really monitor what is going on in every municipality. In view of the ‘Medea’, has the ‘Borea’ been applied? Did the necessary meetings take place? Have the necessary contacts been made? Has our necessary public reports been made on these issues? Of course they did. I'm sorry to say it, and I'm very respectful to say it. I did not want to open up this issue, but with fruitfulness, we were observing stunning criticism from people who are understood to have an experience. Forgive me, but we even heard about the closure of the national road that they were afflicted - it says - people, truck drivers for hours. No, no, this was happening in the past! What happened with the national road is that in the middle of a snowstorm - because at five and a half hours, I was there - in the middle of zero visibility, with the exits to the country being half a metre of snow, in danger, that any trucks were in there might be bolted and even LEA would close, and we made a difficult decision with the Minister to close the national road, precisely so that no one would be in danger. Why does that make a surprise? Isn't there a world practice? Of course, there is also in northern Germany and Poland and the Netherlands. It is a key tool to tackle this situation. I am not standing in the logic of the criticism that has been made, that the national road may have been closed. Because the highway has been closed before. So, coordinates we went in order not to trouble the world. It was afflicted for forty minutes on the bridge of Kalyftakis, which should be the necessary tracks to allow for reversal. Coordinates! Obviously, it is forty minutes preferable for some to be troubled, rather than entangled hours endless, mileage within the national road and situations that we have lived in the past in many decades back. And you know we're right about that. I will not stand in your unjust communication as to whether we were able to preach the Municipality of Dionysus and if we were delayed, when within three hours and twenty-five minutes of the request our services, which were already at night, made the declaration. I could talk too many hours about it. The question is not if there are overlaps, no overlaps. In the "Vorea" project, the DEDDIE also knew what each municipality had to do and what it had to do. Whether they had the means or could do it is another matter, in which of course we also have bureaucratic procedures in relation to pruning. We've dealt with it, Mr. Kamine, and together. Self-government have been, we know exactly what's going on. Therefore, any criticism sounds - if you'll excuse me, but that's how I get it - is at the limit of the micropolitical approach and it really feels sorry for me. Because these are issues for which we must create a cultural base that will accompany us from now on. It has nothing to do with the government, it has to do with a mechanism, the national mechanism, which our country has for the first time. We will have such issues all the time, and we will have these issues all the time. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So it is not about the curses and curses, about what happened and what happened. The point is to understand that this is all a patriotic issue to which we should all cooperate, because against a climate change that so far, if you want, was a description of what happened away from Greece, now is here. And you see it, we live it very fast.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u149	Minister, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u150	On the subject of vaccines, we're ruthless. The Secretary-General of primary care and head of the vaccination team, Mr. Themistocleus, said so. We won't take a step back. For those who believe that on the back of people who really need the vaccine, they will play their own games, not step back! We're not negotiating this. On the other hand, when we have thirty-five thousand vaccinations and we are discussing three, four, five cases, it is obviously an absolute exception. There can be no policeman or a verifier around each vaccine or about every structure of the hundreds there are. We're watching it closely. Finally, I would like to say this: I understand, especially in matters of civil protection, that there should be anxiety, concern, reflection, because it is about human life, because it is about human presence, and it is about the natural environment. But the answer to all of this is not everyone, through their own time, trying to put responsibility to each other. It's time to cooperate. It's time to get together. All that comes is issues that need to be our joint effort towards a climate change that is irreversible for our children. Greek citizens should be safe and sure of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. I would remind you, however, that your time too is limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u152	I had three issues, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u153	I know, but I can't do any different. Let's go to the next question, the second question under number 466/22-2-2021. Larissa’. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes. Please keep up the time, because there are too many questions left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, before I enter the essence of the question concerning the course of vaccinations in Larissa, I would like, if I may, to ask you a reasonable question - and if you will, answer it. Four months of quarantine, four months in which our fellow citizens have been deprived of basic rights, four months of sacrifices from our fellow citizens, the reason was that the cases were reduced. Instead, they've grown. Two are the answers: It is the citizens' fault, as you usually say, or rather you have not planned to deal with the pandemic properly. I'm thinking about the issue of vaccines. Minister, when this vaccination programme began to remind us that it was very ambitious on the part of the government, that in a few months' time - for example, you said up to the beginning of the summer - it will be vaccinated, if not the whole of the population. In Larissa, for which I am asking today, nineteen thousand of my seventy-three fellow citizens were vaccinated in a total population of about eighty-five thousand. If it continues so, 50% of the population of Larissa will be vaccinated good autumn, late August to September. That is why today I ask you how you intend to speed up the vaccination process, if you have in your strategy to create other vaccination centres and whether there is or not there is availability. Because the phenomenon has also been observed - and the question, the questions from my fellow citizens, whether there is no vaccine available or there is no vaccination centre. Because the dates that are being closed, Minister, are after two months. Thank you and I will wait for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u155	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Before entering into the substance of your question and answering the question, because you have referred to the limitation measures imposed by the government over the last four months and wondered whether these measures have actually been achieved, I will say that the answer is clear. I'm sure they've worked. Under no circumstances will anyone see what is going on in the rest of Europe, see the color maps of the ECDC and compare Greece with the other countries, one will immediately find that Greece is in a very good position compared with the rest of Europe. I wonder if you'd like to tell us we shouldn't have taken action. Because imagine where the cases would have arrived, if we hadn't taken steps. The measures we've taken have worked. It's controlled the management of the pandemic. Our country stands up and I repeat that in relation to the other countries it is in a much better position. Inside this design is the vaccination of the population, to come to the answer to your question. Let me remind you that in the context of the European strategy, we have guaranteed access for all citizens, not only to Greeks, but also to all citizens of the European Union at the same time to vaccines negotiated by the European Union at the cost of which the European Union is involved and we will have vaccines in order to cover the whole population, since all our fellow citizens want to be vaccinated. You were following us when we said that the vaccines would be here at the end of December 2020 - the vaccines - and at the same time all European countries started vaccination, which is developing very smoothly. They are all aware that there are problems mainly with the reception of vaccines in all Member States. This is mainly due to the problems of the companies' production process. These problems are faced by all the countries of Europe and not only by Greece. However, what is going on in Greece, and indeed, our country is from the first countries in Europe to the rolling average of seven days in the course of the vaccines. Characteristics, let me tell you that - at 15: 27 I made an update of the data just before the process of questions to us - eighty-seven thousand vaccinations had been carried out in our country. Approaching one million vaccinations, with 5.53% of the population already made the first dose and 8.58% of the total population being vaccinated. Thirty-four thousand four hundred seven hundred vaccinations are scheduled for today, and the traveling average of the vaccinations is twenty - six thousand eighty - five vaccines, the total of the scheduled dates being one million four hundred eighty thousand closed dates. So you realise that there is a plan, there is planning, and according to this planning, what vaccines are coming to our country. As regards the Regional Unit of Larissa, vaccinations, as you know, started on 29 December 2020 at the University Hospital, with the vaccination of healthcare personnel. There are now nineteen vaccination lines in ten vaccination sites, equivalent to a minimum capacity of a thousand to twenty-six vaccinations a day. Up to now, nineteen thousand three hundred forty-two vaccinations of fellow citizens have been carried out in Larissa Prefecture, and all the scheduled dates are thirty-three thousand six hundred twenty-eight by the end of April. So you realise that the planning we have before the beginning of the summer to have covered at least all the vulnerable groups and the critical mass of the population, which will help us build the immunity wall, since of course the planned deliveries are timely, is well done. I would like to stress that, because you are telling us that there are no vaccines or that there are no fellow citizens on our date for the sixty-four age group at the moment, there is availability of 12 thousand six hundred fifty-two dates for March. I repeat that the supply of vaccines is dynamic and is determined by the planned receptions of vaccines in both our country and the rest of Europe. In the next few weeks, we will also have greater quantities, and we will also have new vaccines at our disposal. You are all aware that other vaccines are in a process of evaluation by the European Medicines Agency and are already scheduled to operate three additional vaccination centres in Larissa. I would like to repeat once again that the more our fellow citizens increase, we will inoculate. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u157	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as far as the first leg is concerned, you dropped the ball on the platform. I have asked you a perfectly reasonable question from the average citizen. I did not understand: When a question has been raised, of distrust to the government, does it mean that we are against the measures? What do fellow citizens ask today? After four months of quarantine, cases have increased and you say 'Look at what is happening in the European Union'. I asked you about Greece. What's more reasonable than that? We are in the Greek Parliament, Minister. The reality of what I know is that it is because the cases have increased. And I asked: What's the matter? Are the citizens who do not apply the measures, or are the government planning? I'm on my way to the vaccinations. You confirmed me when I said that 50% of the population in Larissa would be vaccinated at the end of the summer, because you yourself said thirty-three thousand by the end of April. To this day is 14%. I have the only good thing that three further vaccination centres will be created. But I would like to suggest to you, Mr Minister, that if it is in your design - normally, it should be - that a large vaccination centre should be set up at least at the regional seats, such as here, in Athens, or that you should cooperate with the local authorities for the vaccination centres. It is not possible for both hospitals to raise weight on the one hand, on the other hand, for patients with a coronary disease to be inoculated. This was supposed to be a proper design. Apart from these vaccination centres, which you said would become three more vaccination centres in cooperation with the local authorities. I'll wait for a placement on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u159	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Red, I'm coming back to the first part of the question. Restrictive measures, lockdown, banning or otherwise said, have all the countries of Europe and in all the countries of Europe are increasing coronary cases. All countries have been'red' on the map of the European Agency for Disease Prevention. It is logical to increase in Greece as well. The question is to be able to limit this increase, to increase rate, and, of course, to reach a point where transmission and dispersion are such that together with the immunity wall that we build with vaccinations, we can return to normality. Clearly and I am referring to Greece, yes, I know that we are in the Greek Parliament, when I say that Greece, in relation to the rest of Europe, is clearly in a much better position. As far as vaccination is concerned, I said that three additional vaccination centres would be opened. It is not a matter of spatial planning or infrastructure, of working with local government. There are places. For security reasons, vaccinations are carried out at the health centres and hospitals in our country, and of course there are also large vaccination centres in Athens and Thessaloniki, which fulfil the conditions for safe delivery of the vaccine, so that we can inoculate a larger part of the population. The problem is therefore not spatial or spatial, I repeat that it is about the quantities of vaccines that we receive. There's a delivery planning. Since the quantities are increased over the next period, the flow of vaccines and the vaccination we are going to make will increase. By the way, let me remind you of this. We see what has happened in other countries of Europe and beyond, where many countries, using the wrong tactic, the wrong strategy, have used doses of vaccines without having secured the second dose for the population, taking a big risk, while we and we have kept the second dose at the time the first dose took place in the population and had a specific programming, so that any vaccines are coming to the population. I am sure that, having a good deal of things, because we really expect an increase in the quantities available in the next period and more vaccines, and we will work with other bodies - we have already said so - with the pharmacists and doctors - so that we can see how we can get to our last fellow citizen, who will not be able to come to a vaccination centre. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question, the ninth under number 470/22-2-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA's Deputy Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "There is no vaccination planning in Magnesia". Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, it is about two months since the carrying out of vaccinations for protection against COVID -19 in the Law of Magnesia. At the moment that we are talking about the vaccination centres which serve the population's vaccinations, but also the special categories, professionals, health workers and recruits, are at Volos Hospital, where a very well-organised vaccination centre is operating, at Volos Health Centre, Argalatis Health Centre, Zagora, Velestino and Almyros Health Centre. Only sixty to sixty-four years of age are vaccinated at the Zagora and Velestine Health Centre, while in the remaining structures citizens are vaccinated more than eighty years and professionals belonging to the primary vaccination are vaccinated. What's the problem, Minister? That for about three weeks now, the unique health structure at Magnesia level with available days and hours to vaccinate citizens over eighty years and professionals who are first vaccinated is at the Argalas Health Center, while great difficulties arise in finding available vaccination appointments at Volos Hospital and Volos Health Center, which are the only structures serving vaccination within urban tissue. On the basis of information we have, Minister, at Volos Health Centre, located in the urban fabric and in the hospital, with a population of about seventy thousand people, fewer vaccinations are carried out than the Argalas Health Centre in which more than a hundred vaccinations are carried out in the day. This paradox is explained by the fact that the older citizens of Volos and professionals, instead of promoting their vaccinations in health structures within the urban fabric, are referred to the Argalatis Health Centre, the Almyros Health Centre, in Zagoras, as they have to go a distance of up to eighty-two kilometres of transition and return, thus imposing an unnecessarily hardship. The Department of Health does not provide any clarification so far why other primary health structures within urban areas are not exploited, citing the responsibilities for planning in central government. There is another important issue, which has remained unanswered by the Ministry of Health, what will happen precisely in the planning for vaccine coverage of vulnerable population groups at Magnesia level and also throughout Greece. There are many of our fellow citizens who cannot move from home. Therefore, the questions are many: How will you differently configure vaccination planning at Magnesia level? Do you intend to open up more vaccination centres, using local health units, and of course what will happen with vulnerable groups, which are currently in a really critical state, as they cannot move?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Meikopoulou, let me begin by saying that your title, the title of your question, is a little excessive, 'unexistent of vaccination planning in Magnesia Law'. Planning exists for the whole country and alas if we left behind one area. Now, thank you for the questions, because it is technical of course, but it is good to talk about them in order to see the complexity of the project. We know that we are talking about a portfolio of vaccines that we have at our disposal, three vaccines at the moment and others are coming in with different conditions of movement, storage and administration, which increases the degree of complexity of the whole operation and we must have specific solutions in order to inoculate the population. The Magnesia Prefecture currently operates thirteen vaccination lines in nine vaccination sites, equivalent to a minimum of seven hundred two vaccinations per day. You said, I think, that only the Argalas Health Center can carry out vaccinations on people over seventy-five years of age. From the information I have is the Almyros Health Centre and the General Hospital of Volos, and of course the Skiathos, Skopelos and Alonissos Health Centres, which will carry out vaccinations at the top of the seventy-five years and with specific vaccines. And of course also an additional vaccination line in Volos, Volos serves both the sixty to sixty-four and the people over the seventy-five years of age. Until today, eleven thousand three hundred and forty - nine vaccinations of fellow citizens have been carried out in Magnesia Prefecture, and all the scheduled dates are twenty - eight thousand nine hundred twenty - five by the next month. I also told your colleague, in the previous question concerning the Larissa Prefecture, that the situation is dynamic and has to do with the number of vaccines we have at our disposal. More vaccines at our disposal, more vaccination centres will be opened. And we will also open up more vaccination centres in Magnesia Prefecture to serve all our fellow citizens. One last thing, because you referred to the vulnerable groups. First of all, I would like to say that there is a specific priority definition of who will make the vaccine from the National Committee for Vaccines. The first criterion is ageing, and, of course, the criterion of the vulnerability of each group is that of the population. There is a specific plan for these groups to be vaccinated as well as some of the vulnerable population groups - because there are vulnerable groups where they are moving, because you have referred to our fellow citizens who cannot move, in order to do the vaccine - I said at the end of my previous question that there is a plan, when we will have a easier vaccine at our disposal - and this vaccine is 'JOHNSON & JOHNSON', which we expect to be authorised by the competent regulatory authority, the European Medicines Agency, in March, which requires a dose and is easy to manage and handle - so that with this vaccine we can reach our fellow citizens who cannot move to the vaccination centres. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u165	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u166	Minister, I believe we will agree that every design is judged in practice and, unfortunately, until today, at least as far as the perfect, immediately, effective functioning of the finally automated vaccination system is concerned, I believe that some examples that I will mention disprove you of the allegations you have just made. For example, when blind people are called on to go to the Health Centre for Vaccines, I think it is a typical case. Or the other case, having people from other prefectures, for example from Evia or Fokida, is going to be vaccinated at the Argalaster Health Center of Magnesia Prefecture, this again does not bear witness to a proper design. But let us get back to the point. We are making a concrete proposal to you, Mr. Contozamani. You know very well that within urban tissue Volos has about four other primary health structures. It is the Local Health Unit of Agrias, the Local Health Unit of Nea Anchialou, the TOMY Ioalkos and the New Ionian TOMY. Will you immediately integrate these into the vaccination plan? Why so far, Minister, have these structures not simply been used to make it easier for people? I will give you another example. Ten days ago with the bad weather "Medea" there were people who lost their scheduled date for vaccination, because of the exceptional circumstances and because access to the vaccination centres of Pelion was impossible. And I ask you, humanity: are we luxurious, can we afford to lose an appointment and go back to the vaccinations because you have chosen to show the substance of the vaccination centres up to eighty kilometers from the centre of Volos? How, when this happens, will we be able to create what you are saying, the 'austerity wall' that we so long expect so that the market can function, the focus and tourism can be opened, when the only tool we have so far, namely vaccination, is not used properly? Even the health professionals of Magnesia, even the Medical Association of Magnesia until today, have not understood how this design was made. So this is a complex thing, something unthinkable? If so, explain it to us, to understand it. Or has it been done, Mr Contozamanis, completely disregarding the personal needs and the particular circumstances of each region? In the second part, I did not say that there was no plan for supporting vulnerable groups. I'm asking what this design is. Because today you know very well that there are people enlisted, there are people who have diseases that need mechanical breathing support, there are people with dementia, there are people with a certified disability of over 80% who are not currently prioritised. I ask how you will use this part and what exactly you will do. Is there a word of understanding with the municipality's prosperous and social services? Will you use the 'Help at Home' programme? Will you take advantage of the social welfare of each municipality in order to identify first where these people are? There are people who have no one to take them to vaccination. What about these people? Questions therefore have the character and perfume of specialization. I do not doubt that you have the intention, I ask you what your intention is at last, Mr Contozamanis, and that this is exactly what you will implement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mikopoulou, first of all with regard to those who lost their appointment because of bad weather, this date has been redefined and no one will lose either the first dose or the second dose lost because of bad weather. I repeat that this is a very big project with regard to vaccination. I believe that the vaccination of the whole population is perhaps in the health sector the largest project called for by an organised state to manage. Because you referred to the fact that some of our fellow citizens were moved or given an appointment to another county, I will tell you that it may have happened and it may have been systemic error, because we identified it in many cases. A fellow citizen of ours might have mistakenly put the postal code and taken it out into the next prefecture. There were such cases, but all these problems are resolved. It is not that we are sending our fellow citizens to the next prefecture or to other areas and I wish we had more vaccines and can open up everywhere in vaccination centres. That is what we have at our disposal at the moment, we are doing all the vaccines in order to speed up population vaccination and we are doing so in such a way as to minimise the suffering of our fellow citizens. And as far as vulnerable groups are concerned, there is definitely planning to locate people who can't either hang up or go on their own, with all the services that the state has at its disposal. And as I told you, there's a plan to go to our fellow citizens who can't move towards a vaccination centre. I repeat that we have secured doses for the whole population and already have design so that we do not leave any of our fellow citizens inconvenience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, too, Minister. We now go to the first with number 446/17-2-2021, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Prevention, upgrading and subordination of electricity networks in Greece". The question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Now not to make the great introduction I had made to my timely question, because I tabled it the very next day before even I know exactly whether to keep the suffering so much of a hundred and fifty thousand families. So don't waste time. I want to go directly to the questions that are of interest to the world and say a few details later on in secondary. Will there be a programme from your Ministry for finally substituting electricity connections, particularly in the mountain regions, in the forest areas, but now above all in the urban areas with rich forest wealth? That is why hundreds of thousands of citizens were chosen to live in a human environment. And a second question regarding the same question is: will there finally be coordination between the TEDO and local government, between the TEDO and regional government, between the "terrestrials" in any case that created this whole picture? Because I stress that it was much worse that those in charge came out of here and lay the blame on the others in charge than there, it was much worse this behaviour of state officials, which further aggravated the suffering of people for a week, of the two hundred and fifty thousand families in the northern suburbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u171	Thank you too, my colleague. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Madam President, for the very correct and critical question you have tabled, which gives us the opportunity to highlight what has been done in an extremely serious natural phenomenon about a week ago. With the "Medea", as it was called, we did have for more than twenty-four hours continuous snowfall, which caused huge damage. What was the problem? The problem was that hundreds of logs of trees were cut, broken and fell over TEDO's average voltage and low voltage cables, resulting in huge areas in the North Attica to remain out of electricity, cut off electricity and thus stay the houses without heating, without electricity, without light. Of course, there are families living in these houses with children, with elderly children, with babies, with children who are preparing for the pan-Hellenic exams, and indeed all this has caused a huge difficulty in households but also a great deal of discontent, as was reasonable. On the other hand, however, we must also say that, despite the exceptional vigour and violence of this weather, there were some people who, in one for the size of the disaster - without an excuse - dare to say a short time, who were, of course, twenty-four hours for many families, were able to restore the damage. Who were they? These were the technical workshops of the DEDN, the airline, the technicians. They were the members of the Civil Protection and the Municipalities who opened the way to access the TEDO workshops. They were the men and women of the Fire Corps, the Police, and the Army. And all these people have taken a really coordinated struggle, and I do not want to say again that this is some justification for everything being done perfectly. Because when a house has four and five hours without electricity, no one can celebrate success. But I mean, these people did a titanic struggle, often at risk of their lives. You saw them often climbing the pillars of PPC and TEDO at night. Fatigue, exhaustion, the risk of work itself posed a risk to their own lives. I mean, this whole thing is over having left things behind, which you quite rightly say must be done the next day so that we do not relive that phenomenon. What are we planning? I'll say it in my denture, of course, but as you quite rightly said, we're planning before the disaster. Before that, we had designed and included broad substituting air cables of over two thousand kilometres. The distance of Athens - Lamia thinks it is about 220 km. So, ten times the distance of Athens - Lamia we have planned in the coming years to subjugate. In fact, following a decision we made with the CEO of the UNDDA last week, a prioritisation study is being commissioned of the areas in which the first air cable substitutments will proceed in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Minister. You have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u174	In summary, I had listened to the Prime Minister in any event to have spoken about the forthcoming Development Fund. Two - three months ago, he said that your Ministry would receive a very large proportion. He was mentioned before the disaster in the northern suburbs in the suburbs. I would like to link it not only with the disaster in the northern suburbs and the disasters that I have experienced as a journalist for years from fires in the summer, but I will also set you another parameter, because we are a country that lives - well or badly - from tourism. She, because I'm also a professional photographer and I've also published photographic books, I've always cursed PPC, the DEDDIE, the IPTOE, because in the best shots - how much more of the other professional photographers - you were going to photograph a wonderful landscape, you were going to photograph a wonderful monument and you couldn't because they were hanging these unacceptable cables. And let's just say one example. Bravo in the Municipality of Triphyria because I learned by searching for information on the timely that since June 2020 Kyparissia has been contacted by contract at a cost of EUR 120,000, and removes the cables from the wonderful Upper City of Kyparissia. The same has happened in Santorini and in other countries of particular natural beauty with important tourism. Where do I want to end up? That in general your Ministry must strengthen as much as it can with the Development Fund as the Prime Minister has commanded us to have the combination: the protection of the environment, the promotion of natural wealth, and certainly the protection of families in areas which are dangerous either winter or summer by the overhead cables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u176	Madam President, I think that you have covered them perfectly well and well, because in fact these three criteria that you have said are the ones that we have included in order to be able to prioritise the regions. As you rightly said, there are three categories of priority areas to underpin the air cables of the TEN. Firstly, areas such as peri-urban forests and other forests, through which TEDO's average-voltage lines pass, where the risk of contacting tree leaves in summer and at times of heat with the cables can cause fire. So, areas such as Tatoi, for example, like the Parnitha forest, such as other mountains in Evia, are indeed in the priority areas. Secondly, as the 'Medea' rubbing has shown, we have those settlements, those areas where they are densely vegetation, where they have forests on the substance, such as the North Attica, where snowfall can cause the cutting and falling of trees and thus the cessation of electricity and, respectively, the summer also, these areas have the risk of fire. Therefore, these areas, such as the North Attica, such as regions of Evia, must be said, but also in the rest of Greece, they will also be priority areas where within the year - I repeat - we will fight hard so that we can start subjugating air cables. Thirdly, we have the traditional settlements and the attractive tourist destinations of the country, such as the traditional settlements in town centers, such as the beautiful islands of the Aegean Sea and the Ionian Sea, areas that attract millions of tourists, where there is indeed in a beautiful landscape or picturesque streets we see unspeakable pillars, which do not flatter the general environment. And such areas are areas where we're going to have subsoiled air cables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u177	When are you going to start?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u178	Within the year, 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Minister. We enter the eleventh century under No 462/22-2-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The Board of Directors of the Hellenic Recycling Organisation (EOAN) is involved in the 'Recycling Recycling' against the scientific recommendation of the Greek Recycling Organisation (EOAN)". The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Screkas. Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, it is shocking to see the text of the recommendation of the EEAN Service on 'Reconstructional'. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. It tells us that the body, that is, the 'Recycling Recycling', has failed to carry out the work of alternative waste management. His performance was too low. It did not achieve any of the seven goals of any of the years, except in 2017 that it achieved three of the seven goals due to VES. For the period 2009-2011, no account is taken of its elements as, after an audit carried out by a decision of the board of directors of EEAN, there have been major inaccuracies and inconsistencies in the data provided by the entity, which makes them unreliable and usable. Monitoring and management in practice of "Recycling" has been assigned to a subcontractor and "Relaying" is unable to monitor the work of the system, says the document. The amounts recycled are not substantiated, because the "Reservoir" continues and claims that what it collects recycles 100%, violating its own commitments for a detailed presentation of the data, while although it is symbolized and collects the corresponding amount, 8.5% to 15% of the producers of plastics and recyclable materials, it recycles only 0.8% -4%. As far as economic sustainability is concerned, it has borrowed huge sums. In 2019 only 1,500%. She gives, operates big amounts of her future revenues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Little tolerance, Madam President. It also supplies new equipment in this situation. She doesn't do anything to reduce her expenses. In this negative recommendation, the Governing Council of the EEAN proceeded with the agreement and the adoption of its new ‘Recycling Recycling’ project. And the reason is simple. They are the statements of the Prime Minister, who, shortly before the appointment of the board of directors of the EEAN, started the agreement with Maximos to put the "Realistic" in Maximos for recycling. It was preceded by the cooperation of the central offices of the New Democracy with the "Advocative Recycling", while the statements by the former Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodorikos, in January 2020, were: "I am sure Mr.Mitsotakis will continue to support the programme until the end." Please explain to us what is happening and why all the representatives of environmental organisations have resigned, the board of directors, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, it is indeed a government priority at last to give a solution to recycling in the country. The country is not proud and the years that have passed - and especially the last five years before taking over - have unfortunately gone away, they have gone very far. The circular economy is already at the heart of the European 'green deal', the Green Agreement, when Greece continues to enjoy the sad privilege, Mr Colleague, to bury 80% of the urban waste produced when the objective, as you know very well, is to reach 10% and when other European countries are very close to this objective. So we are far from achieving both European and national objectives. And in this - to say this - ungraceful achievement has all those who are involved today in trying to achieve higher recycling rates. The main objective of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy in the waste sector is finally to enable the country to acquire a modern waste management with increased recycling and a reduction in landfill. The main instrument in this effort is the reform of the legislation. In March, then, we will submit a bill to the Greek Parliament for discussion and we will have the opportunity to exchange constructive - and I hope - proposals and opinions so that we can finally put Greece on the path that we need. We are therefore promoting the recycling bill, which will launch the separate collection of paper, glass, plastics and metals, the introduction of PET guarantee systems, the plastic from which many packaging materials are made - plastic bottles that we use for sodas, drinks, etc. - and the aluminum. It also promotes the establishment of new extended producer responsibility programmes by setting up alternative management systems for new product streams, such as agricultural plastics, medicines, textiles, mattresses, toys, sports equipment and others. Furthermore, the use of financial instruments is promoted to enhance prevention and recycling, to improve the regulatory framework for alternative management systems, for which we are also discussing today and, of course, to strengthen the regulatory and supervisory role of the EEAN as, as you recognise, this is very difficult today. But, in itself, I have to tell you, the legal framework is not enough. That is why if we want the circular economy to help us achieve the objective we have set ourselves, namely to reduce the quantities of landfill waste to 10% by 2030 from the 80% disappointment we are in today, if we want to make real and substantial recycling, then, Mr President, everyone involved in recycling in Greece should cooperate in an inclusive manner. That's the only way we'll succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u183	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you're the only Minister who doesn't answer the questions. Do you realize that the question you have before you - like the previous ones - has specific questions? Did you come here to make announcements? We have specific questions, which are referred to in the written question, beyond the oral question. "Why did the Ministry's political leadership choose to approve the six-year operational plan of the collective alternative packaging management system "Recycling Recycling" despite the negative recommendation of the relevant directorate of the EEAN? Do you undertake to withdraw this approval?’ Are you going to answer the questions? We're not children! Now, I'm going to answer the general accounts you've told me. You mentioned that we need to reduce what we bury from 80% to 10%. Yeah, recycled at source, not combustion. There is no such thing as our obligations. In fact, the plans you are sending to the committee are turning you around and not financed, because you continue and continue to promote models that are outdated in all other countries and problematic. Let's get some of that stuff. And since I have time, I'll repeat it again. Three environmental organisations were resigned by the EEAN, the one you appointed as the government. And you appointed him shortly after the agreement of the Grand Maximos and Prime Minister Mitsotakis to put in Maximos the "Resilience" and manage recycling. The agreement with the "Departmental" for the New Democracy building was preceded at the time in Piraeus. And they say to us as a reason - I repeat the points I have read to you - that the reports from the services of the EEAN show that, apart from one year covered by three objectives, for all the other years, no objective has been reached. The figures for specific years have been considered to be truly unreliable and impossible to use. It also says here that it has contributed to recycling - it is a communication from environmental organisations - to 2% and has received 16% of the contributions. Of course, because Mr Georgiadis told us that a Minister for the Environment is judged by his work if he has the environmental organizations in front of him. That's what your other Minister told us. In fact, I wonder if in the end these announcements from these environmental organizations are annoying to you or are honorary to you too. Is it honorable for you, Minister, to resign the representatives of environmental organisations from the EEAN or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I would say that we should maintain a level of political culture and dialogue here. I tried to be - and I'll be - nice to you. I didn't want to expose you. We're not children, but a child coming here would be read when he asked a question, which you didn't. So when you come to the Greek Parliament, the representatives of the Greek people and ask questions, it is important that you have read a little about what you are asking about. Because according to Law 2939/2001, Mr Colleagues, the operational plans of the Alternative Management Systems, TENs, like what you are asking, are not approved by the Minister but by the EIA. According to the law, there is no possibility of withdrawing approval from the Minister, as unfortunately and incorrectly you are asking. There is therefore no possibility, for which you will know, if you had just read the law. So read what the law says and come and ask a correct question to the Greek Parliament. The only person who is entitled to approve or reject an Alternative Management System, and most of all his operational plan, Mr Colleague, is EEAN, on the basis of a decision of his board of directors, which approves or does not approve the operational plans. As far as I know, this operational plan has been adopted by a overwhelming majority of the Board of Directors of the EEAN. Unless you don't know that too! The Minister for the Environment and Energy is responsible for defining the legal framework under which the EEAN and the alternative management systems operate, as well as for the supervision of the EEAN. Therefore, the approval and supervision of the TADs is exclusive competence of the EEAN. So I have to tell you this. The Management Board of the IAEA has approved that operational plan. That is where we must say that the representative of the CEDEFOP also participated and voted positively. You should know that the JRC is a shareholder in the other alternative management system. The CEDEFOP spokesman also voted in favour of the approval of the operational plan and plan for this system. I told you before and I want you to understand that we want and we will strengthen the EEAN. We will strengthen the institutional framework and call on all inclusive participants to finally be able to do what we need to do, implement national objectives and European objectives as a country. At the moment Greece is talking about burying 80% of the waste it produces. If that's what you think it'll make you proud, it doesn't make us. That's why we're gonna change everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, too, Minister. The third question under number 450/18-2-2021 will be discussed in the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Full unprotected and out of any government provision of food - tourism workers". The third question will also be discussed under No 455/22-2-2021 in the second cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "We need to take care of the Government in order to adequately protect all employees in tourism and food." These two topical questions refer to the same subject and will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, in application of the provision in Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. I welcome to the House Mr Tsakloglou, an old acquaintance and a friend from the difficult times of the first memorandum. Mr. Chacloglu, I imagine you've answered other questions too. It won't be the first. But she's the first one you answer to me. It seems a little strange to me, but I will be very specific, very clear, very focused on the point that I want an answer. For the reasons that we all know and have suffered, especially those who were ill, the pandemic has created obligations on this government to support businesses and workers who have been in the eye of the cyclone. I have been here since the first day of the dramatic phenomenon and I have seen, Mr Tsakloglu, all the relevant legislative initiatives. I have also supported our own legislative initiatives as a party to the Opposition. Many times the ministers told us "if you have something to point out, something that has escaped us..." because the problems were peculiar and peculiar. You were saying to close the "Mall", but inside there was a store that left it open outside "Mall". That's what everyday life tracked them down. And the government was looking for and the opposition was looking for and getting information, and we exchanged this information for the benefit of businesses and workers at times. In my dentistry, I reserve to say what I have. In my prototype, however, along with my colleague and friend George Mulkiotis, I would like to ask you whether you have been aware of a charge that has escaped you and from March 2020 has not taken euros into account, namely the employees in the field of tourism and foodstuff, who are not directly related to their employer, but have found employment through a job office. They have for the last time in March 2020, Madam President, been given the aid as seasonal workers of last year and have not seen a single euro. Has he escaped you as a ministry before you and now that you've taken over? Do you need our memory? Are we helping today, or have you considered that they are fine and do not need help?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the Change Movement has indeed coincided with the same issue in general questions. I should like to explain a few different issues beyond what Mr Loverd has said. From the outset we had given the dimension of structural opposition, not with refusal, but with positions and proposals. Perhaps you know that the outgoing Minister, Mr Brutsi, had recognized here in Parliament, that we had made very specific proposals. The government had adopted over 50% of the proposals we submitted. He had told him in honor. Because we had made proposals concerning workers, they concerned charges which the government had not taken into account in order to carry out the necessary expansional procedures with regard to benefits. Today we are talking, beyond the category mentioned by my colleague Mr Loverdos, about three other issues, Minister, which concern workers in food and tourism again. Firstly, they are the young subsidised workers in food and tourism who, for the first time, have paid subsidisation with unemployment subsidies beyond the 50 brands - which are now in force for the current year - are invited to have done eighty days of work during the two previous years since the start of the subsidy as new subsidized people. This condition has meant that these workers are outside the category. There is no possibility and there was no possibility of having this condition for the additional eighty days of work. This is a charge left outside. The second category concerns food, federation and workers is nightclub workers. No welfare for these people. It's out of total and from the start. Third category are the workers with the famous one-day contracts. Unfortunately, one day contracts were adopted. And these workers, who have great problems, have remained, Mr Minister, in addition to the regulation, beyond what my colleague Mr Loverdos said about workers in the workplace. After that, given that the federation of food and tourism is calling for - because of the difficulties and difficulties we are currently experiencing - and for the wages to be paid to 80% of those who are still almost a year on contract suspension, there to be another care. It's no different. The question is: Does the Ministry intend to take these categories into account which have not so far been taken into account in order to obtain an allowance? Secondly, do you intend to call on the food and tourism federation to make up 80% to adopt it and implement it? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am very grateful to the very good friends, Mr Loverdos and Mr Mulkiotis, for their questions, especially because you are giving me the opportunity to speak once again from the Step of the House on a major issue in the middle of a pandemic concerning the political interventions, actions and measures that the Government has taken and continues to take with a view to the financial support of workers, seasonal workers and the unemployed from the tourism sector. I shall refer to my prototypes in Mr Loverd's question and my denunciation in Mr Mulkiotis's question. Before I turn to the substance of the questions, I would like to point out that, according to very recent figures from the Ministry of Finance, the measures taken by the Government have been disbursed from the beginning of the pandemic until the end of February 2021, a total of EUR 5,27 billion. Of these, it is estimated that the cost of prolonging unemployment benefits was around EUR 1 billion, while around EUR 1.5 billion is the cost of covering insurance contributions. Let us now move on to the questions that have been asked. As far as Mr Loverdos is concerned, I would like to say that in your question - at least in the way he is formulated - there is an ambiguity that requires some clarification. Your question concerns those workers who, as you say - and I quote - 'are offering their services to hotel units, but their recruitment has been carried out by an employment office, to which they have been seeking employment and who, as you say, have not been put into regulation'. In particular, you refer to workers with specialties that are absorbed in each tourist season, such as hotel businesses, cleaners, dressing houses, laziers. The ambiguity I mentioned earlier concerns the determination of who is the natural employer of seasonal workers in tourism with these qualities, namely who is hiring these people. The employment offices, as you claim in your question, which, as you say, have a Code of Activity - the well-known CAR - as cleaning offices, contractors operating under work rental contracts or temporary employment companies? Also, as you mentioned - and again I read from your question - ‘the measure of the suspension of a contract has not been applied to this category, since the employment offices have a Code number as cleaning offices, so that they are not considered to be affected by the State because they have not ceased their operation’. That is not correct, as there is a legislative provision for these enterprises too, namely, purification operations, so that, according to the CAR, they are considered affected, as I will explain below. Mr Loverdos, your reference to employment offices, which, as you claim, have a Code number as cleaning offices, so that they are not considered to be affected by the state because they have not ceased operation, creates a confusion. Why is it confusing? Since, in accordance with the legislation in force, the role of private works offices is distinct and different from works contracts, namely contractors and temporary workers. Let us look at one of these. The private employment offices, in accordance with Article 98 of Law No 4052/2012 and Law No 4093/2012, also entitled ‘Approximate to the Private Labour Offices and their branches’, have as their object the mediation for the conclusion of employment contracts between employers and job seekers. That is what the current legislation says. Private employment offices intercede between those looking for work and those in need of staff. Consequently, a worker seeking employment through the private employment offices and hired by a hotel, for example as a lazier, has signed a contract of employment with the hotel or with the restaurant and not with the place of work. Let us now go to the works contracts, that is, to the contractors. In accordance with the applicable legislation and case law, the contractor has the responsibility of organising work to achieve the result, i.e. work, and can carry out either himself or another that he hires, and the contractual relationship is usually terminated when the final work is carried out. The contractor's staff are not contractually linked to the project owner, i.e. the employer, the hotel in this case. On the other hand, they are employees of the contractor who are engaged in his business and are subject to his management right, that is to say, they are obliged to follow his instructions on how to time and place of business. If workers belong to this category of a contractor operating, for example, in the cleaning of hotels and buildings, then we have a different given. What's that? Even in these cases, as I have already said, there is provision for legislative intervention by the Government for people employed in such enterprises to join the affected companies on the basis of the CAR. In particular, according to the decision of the Deputy Minister of Finance - FEK 1160-2020 - as well as the 25-11-2020 decision - FEK 5250/2020 - there is provision for the integration of enterprises active in cleaning, storage, in the area of general cleaning of buildings, other building cleaning activities and other cleaning activities in the affected enterprises. As regards the third category, the temporary employment companies, there is provision for aid for their workers. Temporary employment undertakings may declare their employees whose contract of employment is suspended either on account of the suspension of the activity of the indirect employer by order of a public authority, or because their business is seriously affected, in principle, or in a specific case, by submitting the special form. Mr. Loverdo, for all these categories of workers the government has taken back-up and support measures. In my dentistry, as I have said before, I shall refer to the specific measures that we have taken to support seasonal workers with the right to re-entry and seasonal workers without the right to re-entry, but also the unemployed in the tourism sector and food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u194	Allow me, it is a little bit of parliamentary experience. My question was clear. Your answer must be decoded and I invite you to decode it. And I'm saying you need to decode it and I'm calling on you to decode it. I am going to help you understand what you need to clarify to us. There are employment offices which, as my question says, have a code as companies, companies involved in cleaning, and therefore the contracts in question have not been suspended. Am I clear? Mr. Undersecretary, am I clear? The workers are about ten thousand and I am being informed by the entire Greek federation concerning food and tourism workers. My evidence comes from there. These services provided by the companies relate to the finding of staff - the so-called 'employees' - which staff offer temporary employment, do not offer fixed and permanent employment. That's why they're rewarded with the minimum, 650 euros get mixed. My question mentions who I'm talking about at the hotels. You have reiterated them, let me tell them more clearly: Working on the cleaning of hotels, cleaning, cleaning houses, cleaning houses, lacquer and other jobs in the hotel area. The relevant conventions of these people, because the contractors, that is, these labour companies, concern cleaning, have not been suspended and the workers since May 2020 have not received either the EUR 534 that they take now, nor are they registered in the Unemployment Fund as seasonal. Nothing! What means of pressure do people have? Anyone who finds out, because they are not members of the federation, but they have informed it and inform anyone who specifically finds it in front of them. My briefing came from Mr. Hondzoglou, but then he came to me from everywhere. Even the workers at the Congregation of Music have been informed. People go and say "Say something about us." I'm very clear. Your answer is a service. It is obviously evidence provided by the agency, which I respect and appreciate, that I have been her supervisor in critical years. I honour the answer given by the officials, but there is no point in hearing us and above all there is no point in the way of those who are waiting for your reply. So I come back and become very clear: Do you intend to help them? Or does the answer you give exclude their help? Let me say - I shall of course read the Minutes, because I do not want to blame you at all, after all, you know what I have on your face - that the answer you gave me is that everything is going well to them. That's the point. I would like you to tell me, without looking at your text, if you understand from the answer you have read that there is a failure or that you have covered it and you do not have to intervene at all. I became as specific as I can. Please be too, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we repeat that there have been government support measures for workers - which we have neither had any reason nor intend to degrade or eliminate - which have been taken. However, there were also categories of workers - in this particular case, which we have mentioned and which all belong to the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Workers in Food and Tourism - who are out of cover. These cases are specific. To date the Ministry had shown as a sign of writing that it was listening and adopting our proposals. And indeed, I said many who hadn't included the Ministry and included them. However, this is a specific issue here, and it concerns young subsidized people in food - tourism, which for the first time, in order to qualify for unemployment subsidy, beyond these fifty trademarks required for the current year, are also called on to have done eighty days of work for each year in the previous two years before the start of the subsidy. This is a great accusation which, unfortunately, has not been covered and we would like you to answer whether the Ministry intends to include them or not. Also, I reported the workers at the nightclubs. I imagine that you understand that this is also a major category and, unfortunately, the Ministry has not taken any care to 'challenge' them in or out of import as well as other workers, as well as workers on one day's contracts. They're completely forgotten! That is what we are saying, Minister, because it is out of order. These are three classic categories and another one, which my colleague Mr Loverdos mentioned earlier, which is completely out of order. Also, in this period, the country continues to be hard-tested by the coronary pandemic, public health is severely threatened and businesses are closing down for a long time with a state mandate, so that they are unable to cope with and meet their obligations towards workers. For this reason, the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Workers in Food - Tourism proposed that this replacement should reach 80% of the wage, so that something can be done and that these people who cannot do anything else can. We heard what you said in the House last week, which was very important, and we do not say a word of insight or not. You said about the difference in the ratio of debt - GDP exceeding 200%. Yes! Indeed, this is a very serious matter. However, can the criteria you have received or will you receive also not include these categories of workers, so that they too can be taken care of? Can the Ministry take a supportive measure for these accusations? How do you see it? What the Ministry has done so far has been to insist on a negative attitude to this day. What was at stake was this negative attitude. So will the Ministry continue to insist on this negative attitude? And of course, Minister, I should like to inform you of a very serious matter. The collective agreement on food law has not been declared compulsory, despite the pressure in the House. You should know that this is a process that has been in existence for a long time, something we have repeatedly pointed out in the House. Unfortunately, nothing has happened. When? At a time when the evasion of this period in these sectors, let me say, 'does' and 'black' work is another thing! This collective agreement, which you have not declared to be provisionally enforceable, as required by the law, even though it provides for conditions to avoid 'black' work and tax evasion, unfortunately continues without any obstacle. Waitresses are not paid, under the law, at rates, but with 'black' pay agreements, the distributors - delinquents with 2,70 euros an hour, while the costs for the dicyclop and all this are theirs. So although the collective labour agreement solves all this, unfortunately the Ministry has not adopted it and has not declared it enforceable, without knowing the reason. These are issues which we are talking about because there is an unfinished situation from the past and we are asking for them to be implemented and settled. It is unjustified that this process remains. Indeed, Minister - and I conclude - the Ministry of Labour celebrated when this collective agreement between employers and workers was signed. He celebrated and made a press release, here's what's going on! Minister, go ahead with the collective agreements!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u198	I shall conclude, Madam President. Today, on 1 March, there is no signature under the responsibility of the Ministry. And I conclude by saying that I will submit an open letter from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Workers in Food - Tourism, which denounces the Minister because he wants to see them, and the Minister refuses to. He refuses to see them for two months and workers wonder why, while all they want is to declare the collective agreement to be enforced. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much, Madam President, for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u200	Thank you again, Madam President. Firstly, with regard to Mr Loverdos, I would like to say that since the beginning of the pandemic we have taken a total of sixty two categories of measures to support the economy from the consequences of the pandemic. Only in 2020 and despite the budgetary constraints we have, the measures we have taken have been around EUR 24 billion, which is 15% of GDP. Over a million seven hundred fifty thousand workers have been covered. This is the vast majority of private sector employees, but also a large part of their self-employed. Our aim was precisely the one I said before, namely to meet the needs that existed anywhere. This is also true in the case of the workers you mentioned to me. With regard to what you have obviously implied, I would like to say that I assume that you did so when you were in the respective chairs. So I draw my information to a great extent from my services.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u201	Wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u202	And because you spoke of decoding, they did help me in decoding, as they explained to me, because at first I did not understand your question. So there are three categories. One is the place of work. That's what happens once, then the contract is signed with the employer, that is with the hotel. They got covered. The second part is contractors, i.e. contractors. And they're covered. Perhaps the third case you will mention concerns those who have temporary employment companies. But even these, when they belong to the respective sectors, which I mentioned, have all been covered by these CSRs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u203	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u204	In any case, this has to do with the other question raised by Mr Mulkiotis. A meeting is scheduled with the federation, and if there's anything there, we'll see. However, according to the information I have drawn from my services, there doesn't seem to be any gap there. We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u205	There's a gap here, and you need to cover it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u206	We'll see. As I said before, the government took measures and strengthened all categories of workers and unemployed persons in tourism and food. I am referring also to seasonal workers, regardless of their specialty, with the right to re-entry, but also to seasonal workers - which I stress - without the right to re-entry, as well as to the unemployed in these sectors. In fact, only four days ago, on 25 February, by a joint ministerial decision, unilaterally responsible statements for the reception of a special-purpose compensation amounting to EUR 534 in a number of specialities, such as tour guides, tourist attendants and other categories of workers, such as workers in winter accommodation and to which categories of workers I shall refer next to. In particular, in order to address the adverse effects of COVID -19, among others, the following exceptional and temporary measures have been taken to support workers and businesses in tourism - food by category of workers. For seasonal workers, regardless of the specialty, with the right to re-entry in tourist accommodation and in the drivers of tourist buses, we have made the following arrangements: Firstly, for those who have been re-elected, the measure has been taken to suspend contracts of employment with a special purpose compensation of EUR 534, insurance cover on their nominal salary, not EUR 534, and a Christmas gift ratio has been paid on the amount of EUR 534. In addition, for those not re-entered, the measure of the unilateral employee declaration for the months from June to October 2020 was envisaged by granting special purpose compensation, namely EUR 534 per month, insurance cover on the amount and payment of a Christmas gift ratio. Exceptionally, and especially for 2020, the required number of marks for the regular unemployment subsidy from a hundred to fifty has been predicted. Secondly, for seasonal workers without the right to re-entry into tourism and food, the first was that we granted monthly exceptional compensation for the months June, July and August 2020 at the level of the OAED unemployment allowance, since they were non-subsidisable unemployed at the relevant time. We have also foreseen a monthly exceptional allowance for the months of January - February 2021 to the level of the OAED unemployment allowance, since they were again non-subsidised unemployed in the relevant period - these days are also being promoted - and in exceptional cases, and especially in 2020, we have predicted a reduction of the required number of posts for regular subsidies from a hundred to fifty. With regard to the unemployed, additional measures are being implemented and the following measures: The first is to extend the duration of a regular unemployment subsidy and the long-term unemployment and unemployment aid allowance for two months for those who have expired in 2020. The second is the granting by the OAS of a single financial grant of EUR 400 per non-subsidisable long-term unemployed registered in the OAS. Thirdly, it is further promoted to extend the duration of the regular unemployment subsidy and the grant of long-term unemployed and unemployment assistance for two months for those beneficiaries who have expired or will end in the first two months of 2021. In addition, from March 2020 until now, the measure of the suspension of labour contracts in the tourism sector and of the focus as affected, except in July or as closed by a mandate from the public authority, shall apply and these workers shall be entitled to special-purpose compensation. In accordance with the provisions concerning the application of the measure suspending contracts, it is clear that they apply to undertakings or employers whose business is suspended by a public authority order or affected on the basis of a CIS designated by the Ministry of Finance. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I have spent my time, Madam President. I would like to say that we have measures for tour guides, those who graduated in 2019-2020 from tour schools, tourist escorts and workers who worked during the 2019 tourist season in specific sectors, travel agencies activities, organised travel agency activities and other booking services activities and related activities. Finally, we also have workers who were employed in winter tourist accommodation and ski resorts from October 2019 to March 2020 and were not re-entered from October to February 16, 2021. Consequently, Mr Mulkiotis, following on from what I said about the financial support for the unemployed, the seasonal workers and the payments of all their allowances according to the OAED, only this week that was launched today will a total of just over EUR 100 million be paid to almost sixty thousand of the beneficiaries of the organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 19-2-2021, a criminal case for the Minister of Health, Mr. Vasilis Kikilia. The second question under number 2984/30-12-2020 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will now be discussed, on the subject: "Following the one-off provision of hotel staff by lifting the injustice committed by SYRIZA against them". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, in order to understand the problem of not supporting unemployed workers, you could make a comparison of the list of people registered in the OAED and those who said that they are supported - and rightly so - by the various measures taken by the government. You'll see the chaotic difference and who stay uncovered. These are about four hundred thousand. I should like to refer to the question which has to do with a question which has been turned into a timely one-off payment of the one-off provision of hotel staff. As foreseen by Law 2768/1999, in twenty years of actual work with an eighty-eight months payment to the Welfare Fund was entitled to receive this one-off benefit. It is eloquent that the institution existed for hotel officials because of the specific nature of the occupation it has to do with seasonal employment - but not only because they are also hotel workers who are constantly working - but also with other particular features. It also comes from their own assistance to the Welfare Fund. With Mr Katrugalos as Minister for Labour, although the institution withdrew the negotiations and discussions with the Troika and the first and second memorandum, he came and effectively abolished it, not explicitly but with interpretation. The relevant provision of Law No.4387 is Article 35. The question is whether the government intends to reinstate the one-off provision to twenty years - all or part of it -, as it had promised during the debate on the bill, where not only had it said that it was voting against the Katrugalos Act and that it would abolish it when it comes to power, but also for this article it was committed to abolishing it by reintroducing it. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The second question is this: there are workers who change their profession and for some reason change their sector substantially. What about them? The third question also concerns cases where they are disabled, but do not qualify for retirement. There are these cases and they are not very few, they are too many. I say this because in the written answer given late, you say that if they receive an invalidity pension, they are entitled to it. But the big problem is for those who fail for formal reasons to receive the disability pension while having an invalidity rate of 67% or 80% or more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These are the questions. In my second speech, the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u209	Good evening. Good week and good month from me! Mr. Chacloglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, first of all, I would like to apologize for the delay in sending the written answer. It wasn't appropriate. In any case, the questions will be answered in detail here. The hotel and tourism sector in general is very important for our economy. The Crisis of the COVID pandemic -19 has hit this sector with particular stimulus. That is why the government has supported workers in tourism and food production with a number of actions and initiatives. From the beginning of the pandemic it is on the one hand to limit the loss of jobs as much as possible and, on the other, to provide financial support for the most affected workers. The figures from the respective services of the Ministry of Labour show that from the outbreak of the pandemic up to last December, EUR 3.4 billion had been paid from the state budget for special-purpose allowances, as well as for their insurance contributions. The question, of course, which you raise in your question is not entirely related to the consequences of the health crisis in this sector of workers. It is about a change that has been made with the Katrugalos Act in relation to the possibility of paying it one-and-a-half-year work for hotel staff, regardless of the conditions for the granting of a pension. Indeed, no claims for the one-off benefit shall be accepted as from 13 May 2016 without precedent for the adoption of a pension act. But let me make a crucial point here. This condition is horizontal and applies to all members of the single provisioning industry of e-ECA without any discrimination. Therefore, according to the current context, hotel staff, like all the others who are entitled to a one-off pension, receive it together with their main pension. In addition, in relation to your question for workers who completed the twenty years of actual service, but have changed insurance, this change does not in any event imply losing their right to a one-off benefit. Therefore, in the event that the hotel staff either leave the occupation, stop it due to temporary invalidity, or change the main insurance branch, they are entitled, after their final retirement, to claim the one-off benefit corresponding to their period of insurance in the former FTL, the Hotel Staff Fund. The period of transition from work to retirement is a difficult financial period for workers and rightly the social security benefits are granted at that time. That has always been the reason for social security benefits, to support citizens when they need it more. Allow me, however, one last thing, Mr Kegeroglu. I think that by your question you are overlooking something important. It is about the single rules and social justice that they bring about. I shall refer more specifically to this in my denunciation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr Chacloglu. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u212	Single rules, Mr Minister, are fair if they apply in the same or similar cases. They're not fair. A uniform rule for both the disabled and the disabled is not fair, because the Constitution demands support for the disabled - it is a part of my question - in order to be equal to those who are not disabled, as it requires the support of the islands to come to an equal degree with the mainland or mountainous areas. Therefore, the general rule in its application also means positive measures to support weak social groups, weak citizens. In the present case, 1999 was introduced for hotel workers who are supposedly workers on a seasonal basis, the characteristics you mentioned, that special one-off contribution being paid to twenty years. It's their money, it's not a gift. So we have this special treatment before L.4387 and L.3683/2010 and before the first and second memorandum. SYRIZA comes with the third memorandum and indirectly abolishes this provision. How's he pulling it down? It reiterates the general rule that all the one-off contributions are paid by retirement. So it repeats this rule and does not explicitly repeal this provision, which Mr Petropoulos - Michael, Petropoulos, Karugalos - the triad of SYRIZA in social security - and abolishes it with a circular. You repeat to me today exactly what Mr Petropoulos says here. I shall submit to the Minutes and your reply, the written reply, and Mr Petroulou. So the question is, first of all, a political one. The commitment of the New Democracy, not only that it will abolish the Katorugalou law in general, but also for that one, to return, does it go for a walk? Is this no longer the case? Or isn't it the time to look into it? The second is: with twenty years under the Katrugalou law - both fifteen and twenty - the right to retire is established. So it comes and strengthens the logic that existed before, that, for this particular category of hotel staff, the one can only be given in twenty years, which is now a charge that is also strengthened by the Katrugalo law that it is retired to twenty years. Of course, what I do not accept with anything is to ask you whether a person who has completed twenty years and is entitled to the single to become disabled from 67% to over 80% or over 80%, to take the extreme case, and for formal reasons does not belong to the pensions, is entitled to take the one which is his own and is guaranteed from the time he has a hundred and eighty payments? It's guaranteed, it's his and you're just saying "you won't get it now, but you'll get it when you retire to sixty-seven or sixty-two with reduced" etc. These are, therefore, issues and policies for which you must tell us whether you are changing your position, but also socially and socially sensitive about the disabled and the people who cannot find another job. There are few people, you think, who at the age of fifty can't find another job and they can never retire? The one single one they have guaranteed in the 20th century, if they never retired, which requires that in the last five years EKA have a certain number of badges, what will they do? What about them? Will they also lose the contributions they have paid for the one-off? I think that your position is needed, Mr Petropoulou's position in fact, because they were the charitable ones who dismantled them. And now you find the easy way to say that after Karugalos abolished them, what are we to do today? In short, I said it, in summary. If that's not the case, fix me and tell us what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The speech is made by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou for three minutes for his second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, you referred to the single rules. In fact, the single rules must cover these two things that you mentioned, namely, either have the criterion of horizontal equality or the criterion of vertical equality. When we say horizontal equality, we mean the same treatment of situations. When we say vertical equality, we mean a different management of different situations. I am afraid that this thing, which you have already told me, simply does not fall into this category. I understand that the payment of the one-off payment to twenty years was indeed a financial facility for the hotel staffing industry, but no longer provided to them. If necessary, this facility could be used by other professional groups with similar characteristics. They did not, however, have the opportunity to take it, because they did not deserve it. That is what I would like to say that we know well where the fragmentation of social benefits led us, based on an old-style syndicated logic of satisfying demands. The single rules, those applicable to everyone, without exceptions and asterisks, are those which can guarantee us social justice. In addition, as I mentioned in my protology, the purpose of the single is to provide additional support for pensioners' incomes. Provide a mere partial or total benefit during working life, simply erroneouss its own feasibility. The combination of all the insurers, which took place with the creation of the ECA, was precisely the aim of creating a single framework for benefits and regulations, a single framework for pension rights, a single framework for insurance contributions. We are all, unfortunately, seeing the problems that have arisen in the issue of pensions by the Danish legislation and the differentiated rules for each insurance sector. Allow me to say one more thing: when a provision is consolidated, a right, a procedure can be done better for most of the things, but for a few, perhaps few, are worsening to a small extent. I think that is the case, which we are talking about now. But the rules are being consolidated in order to serve precisely the principle of social justice and solidarity, in order to deal with these issues as a whole and not in a fragmentary way. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that our country's already burdened fiscal image is likely to deteriorate further from the consequences of the health crisis. I therefore think we should all be very careful about such claims and requests, not necessarily because they are unfair or unreasonable, but because what we have before us in relation to the financial consequences of the pandemic is literally unknown and very likely to be much greater than we imagine. Therefore, the social demands must be read with due care and with the budgetary changes they bring. The role of political leadership is, obviously, to examine all citizens' requests, but always trying to legislate policies that ensure social justice and equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u215	Thank you too, Minister. The next question has the same protagonists. This is the fourth question under number 2971/29-12-2020 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "One has cut off the ESS and the other one has free drugs to the micro-retired people." Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u216	As far as you can see, Mr President, the cuts made by Law No.4387 and the one-off payment of hotel officials and the CSCE were prosthetic because the Minister invoked the pandemic. I come to the question about the ESS, but also about what is envisaged or to be provided for by the small pensioners. The ECHR was institutionalised in 1996 and supported the micro-retired people, because the decent level of living is an obligation for the state and for the small pensioners, especially after being abolished by Mr Haikalis - I made the reference to you - on SYRIZA the lower threshold for pensions. For example, there was a sum of EUR 487 for the pensioners of the IKA, who was abolished by Mr. Haikalis. Mr Katrugalos was also abolished and the micro-retired, who are now a small pensioner of EUR 250, EUR 300, etc., were found at the mercy of God. Let me tell you about the one million who is under 500 euros that the five hundred thousand get an average pension of 368 euros of old, the three hundred nineteen thousand get a pension of EUR 348 because of death and a hundred and twenty-three thousand get a disability pension of EUR 388. This is the average of the micro-retired people. That didn't exist before, when the C.E.S.D. existed. It was much bigger than the average. Today, then, things have deteriorated very much. And what we need to see is a new CSCE and how it will be institutionalised. It is an issue that you need to consider. The second, which relates to medicines, is too serious, because these micro-retired persons are not entitled to the reduced contribution of 10% that was before or zero on the basis of the law. Unfortunately, she is only entitled by name to those who took CSR and cut them. She is not entitled to the person who now takes 300 euros. So, who is in the category now of EUR 348, the five hundred thousand insured and those who have no other income or little other income can tell me what logic they should pay 25%? Of course, I will present the following to you in the Minutes: Prime Minister for free medicines to the low-pensioners and not to their former beneficiaries of CSR. Here he is, he said about the low-pensioners. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Secondly, we had a 13th pension for all pensioners. Mitsotakis announces all the measures at the ICU. I would remind you that by distortion of the decision of the Council of State you did not give the gifts to the micro-retired, who were the only ones cut off. The cuts in the small pensioners were only gifts. So the interpretation is that it is not about gifts. Therefore, the micro-retirements were excluded from the refunds granted to the others. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. That's all we need answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u217	The Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou, will answer you. Mr. Tsakloglu, you have three minutes at your disposal for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President, and you and Mr Kegeroglu. The current government under unprecedented and extremely unfavourable conditions for the economy and society has adopted a web of policies to support the crisis-affected and, in particular, the most vulnerable social groups. The measures taken to support households and businesses during the pandemic show that the government's policy is trying not to leave anyone unprotected at this juncture. Having spent on support measures, as I have said before, about 15% of GDP in 2020 and continuing as necessary in this year's year, we are proving that despite the budgetary constraints that exist, we are doing so, namely, supporting those who really need it. Obviously, these measures and the groups that are supported could not be left by the low-pensions. Their support is a strategic choice of the government and the Prime Minister themselves. For this reason, in 2021 the favourable exemption scheme for the participation in the cost of medicines of those pensioners lost the CSR at the end of 2019 was also maintained. In this way, hundreds of thousands of low pensioners continue to take their medicines without any charge. This support will continue as long as necessary. We are still staying next to the people who lost an important part of their income by gradually reducing and ultimately abolishing the CSR from the previous government. At the same time, a number of policies have been developed in recent years aimed at strengthening low incomes. They also cover retired people. The minimum guaranteed income, which is now also constitutionally guaranteed, in which Mr Kegeroglu also had a very significant contribution, and the housing allowance works precisely with the logic of supporting the lower income layers. Therefore, the first part of your question has already been answered in practice by the resolution of Article 3 of Law No 4771/2021 extending the exemption from pharmacy participation. Not only did the government not leave the low-pensioners unprotected, but it continues to support them in every possible way. As regards the decisions of the Council of State and the matter of support for the low-retiremen through the analogous application of the provisions of Article 114 of Law No.4714/2020, I would remind you that the relevant provision was introduced solely in view of the government's compliance with the decisions of the Council of Ministers. The regulation is governed by the general constitutional principles of proportionality and social solidarity, takes into account and respect the country's budgetary constraints and ensures a fair distribution of budgetary adjustment burdens among all citizens. More specifically, the decisions of the Council of State have been considered as unconstitutional cuts imposed on sums of more than a thousand euros and this threshold has not been set by the Council of State, but by the provisions which have been deemed to be unconstitutional. As to the interpretation that the decision of the Court of First Instance was taken. It is also concerned with supplementary pensions, but also with gifts for main and supplementary pensions, that the Government considers this interpretation to be incorrect. In any case, the relevant pilot trial has been completed and the court's decision is expected. In answer to the substance of both questions you raise in your question, I would like to stress that the exemption from participation in the pharmaceutical expenditure is still valid until the end of 2021, while at the same time what you mentioned about retroactive costs is not the case. The Greek Government must respect the judicial decisions and be in line with them, and that is what it has always done with respect for the country's financial constraints, which we must not forget above all in order to avoid bad past practices. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr Chacloglu. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u220	The Minister reiterated that the Government of New Democracy - if I have listened well - has a strategic choice to support the small pensioners. And I say, think she didn't have it! You're just comfortable with the towel made by the previous government, Minister. The EVR - I told you - was given at a time when the average pension was much higher than the 358 that they give today. According to information from the "Sun" system of the Ministry of Labour, which publishes the results of each pension, we have about one million micro-retired people who average about 350 euros. It is not possible to consider introducing or subordinated pensions in which a new CSR or an independent new CSR is incorporated. Secondly, it is not possible to ignore what was in place and then, which received much more, the lowest possible participation. Then they had 10% participation. They took 600 euros and had only 10% participation. Zero was introduced to those who under the Katorugalou law fell to the ground and had a huge loss. Except they lost it to Genarus. Genarus paid medicine normally because you were late to legislate. On Christmas Eve, the Prime Minister remembered it, after our speeches, and made that post. But until it was legislated - which had no retroactive effect - it spent a month and a half and paid. In addition, we have a problem with those who do not show them the system as beneficiaries, while according to the law they are beneficiaries, who must go to make objections, multi-fashioned procedures and others. And the third and most important is that we have at least six hundred and fifty thousand out of one million not included in the arrangement. These six hundred and fifty thousand, who take 350 euros, with relatively expensive drugs, how do they get it? Survival, rent, food, medicine, tell me how to get it out of 350 euros. So when we were discussing it - since you mentioned it - the minimum guaranteed income, at least in the pilot phase that I had the responsibility and the whole negotiation with the World Bank, but also with the European Commission in particular, we said that we are looking at those who do not have income or who have a very small income, and we are supplementing it so that they have the minimum to survive and with a number of other benefits, such as rental subsidies, care services, basic goods, water, electricity and so on. The great accusation I raise to you about six hundred thousand, because they do not fall within the low limits of the CSCE, which have been adapted to the era at the time for extreme poverty, are in need of their own CSCE. There's no other way. Because the pensioner who takes EUR 350 is the national pension, and is there analogous? Tell me what the part of the analog is and what the part of the national is when the lowest national is EUR 346. Didn't they work at all? They don't retire if they don't work for at least fifteen years. So here we have a problem. It's a distortion. Even the national pension doesn't get the 384 euros. You need to consider it. I insisted on the previous Minister calling me populist. It is a very easy answer to say, as I have said very easily, that you are at the foot of SYRIZA. SYRIZA cut it, and you say we're okay now. No, Minister. You will have to examine them and tell us what is the real will of the government. General declarations on aid strategies for micro-retired people I think they are not actually reflected and you need to see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, too. Mr Tsakloglu has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, support for low pensioners and, more generally, low incomes, is a priority of the government. As I mentioned in my prototype, it is our strategic choice to stand alongside those who are vulnerable and exposed to the crisis, let alone now that pandemic and measures to limit it have created an extremely difficult economic situation. The coronary crisis found itself in the recovery and exit phase of a long and unprecedented crisis, so the next day's design is a great challenge that we have ahead of us. However, I would remind you that in the current phase of the economy and society we must not make a bid, but plan carefully and correctly the next day. In this design justice and equality should be the main axes and obviously we should never overlook the financial constraints of the economy. May 2020 and 2021 be characterised by a relaxation of these restrictions in order to address the pandemic. But even so, we still need proper management of the available fuels in the economy until we reach the end of the health crisis. Obviously, the end of the health crisis does not mean the end of economic problems. Mr Kegeroglu, no doubt during the crisis of the last decade there have been major pension cuts. However, as both the publications of international organisations and the detailed work of the scientific community show, the reductions in pensioners' incomes were lower than the cuts in average incomes of the population. In addition, in proportional terms, the cuts were much higher in the incomes of the high pensioners than in those of the low pensioners. That is why the corresponding studies seem to show that the relative poverty rates of the elderly in our country are well below those of the average population. I am not saying that there have been no cuts or that there are no very poor pensioners. Both apply, but we're all trying to take measures to cover them. At the current juncture, combining the limited resources and the great needs of certain sections of the population, such as the long-term unemployed, who have been particularly affected by the crisis and are the poorest part of the population, require targeted measures with high efficiency. The margins for spending resources in policies of doubtful effectiveness are not there, and I would like that to be clear. If we were to follow the forward-looking support for households and businesses, as the major opposition was, we would soon spend all our powers while the time horizon for pandemic was not clear. Now, with vaccinations under way and, at an accelerated rate, the end is more visible than ever before, it is certain that we have the powers to reach the end safely. And at the end of the pandemic on new, more stable bases, we can implement the project that exists for the political support of the most vulnerable social groups among which, obviously, are also low pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. Have a good day to both of you. Let's go to the next twelfth time question for a second time under the number 471/22-2-2021 of the MP Fthiotis of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Eleipestate the policing in the Municipality of Lokra and Amphiklia of the Regional Unity (P.E.) Fthiotis". Mr. Saraciotis, good evening, good week, good month. You've got two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening. Minister, recent cases of thefts, burglary, but also of bombing, which have taken place in the municipality of Lokres, but also in the municipality of Amphiclia Elias - a neighbouring municipality - have restored the issue of incomprehensible policing in the wider area of Locidas. And they come to confirm our struggles, but also the proposals we made in the previous period, that the fact of the one-dimensional staffing of the two major urban centres in our country, namely Athens and Thessaloniki, is at the expense of and without taking into account the needs of the region and resulting in the abandonment of the region in the mercy of crime with disastrous results. I have asked you such questions both in 2019 and 2020. They've bothered the ministry and the two mayors in the area. You have received letters from clubs, and in all of this you have replied with promises, that you have been working on the most adequate staffing of police services with human resources, and no action, no action has been done for a year and a half. But not to blame you did make an action. You've transferred five people from Lockres, from S.T.A. Atalant's, and I don't know if that's how you reinforced it. It'll be unprecedented. The people of Lokrida are asking for answers. That is why I ask you: What are the measures to strengthen policing in the municipalities of Locks and Olives Amphiclia, which you will receive to fill the existing gaps and why are the two police departments left out of the Ministry's operational planning, Amphiclia and Atalanti? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Economou, good evening, good week, good month. You have three minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good month to all of us. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a time when the crowd and the complexity of the challenges that we have to face are characterising it. Undoubtedly, public order, security and anti-crime issues are at the heart of the priorities of the current government with the results of these efforts to be visible to our fellow citizens. The efforts of the government and the state as a whole are constant and responsible. We are moving with consistent and political dignity which society recognises. Looking carefully at the points raised by the current question, I have seen the need to inform the House on a number of issues and also the citizens who are following us. As far as the strength of several services and the entire Greek Police is concerned, there is indeed a need to strengthen them so that they can be characterized by completeness of human resources. Today's picture, as I have already pointed out in this Chamber, is the consequence of a not so far away period of time for our country where for a decade the economic and budgetary difficulties have led to the reduction of the human resources which it serves in the ranks of the Greek Police. Even the particularly increased needs arising from the need for effective response to migration flows have led to a similar distribution of Greek Police officials in such a way that they respond effectively to both our north-eastern land borders and the Aegean islands. At the same time, it was natural that the withdrawals from the active agency did not cease due to the retirement of police officers. It is therefore clear and understandable that weakening and, respectively, strengthening the human potential of the Greek Police is the result of an equalisation of many variables. In any case, I would like to stress that in the context of the initiatives we are taking, with the aim of strengthening the forces of the body, we are constantly reviewing the data as a whole. At the same time, on the basis of specific service needs, we are taking the necessary strengthening initiatives where local conditions require it. It is this point that I believe that makes unnecessary reference to the services of the Greek Police in the Municipality of Locrates and Amphiclia Elias, as well as any other service of the body, included in the persistent efforts made by the political and physical leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection with responsibility and seriousness in order to provide high-level police services to the residents of every corner of our country. To this end, a number of posts have already been opened in the context of regular transfer applications to fulfil the existing vacancies of Fthiotis Police Department. However, it is worth pointing out that this police department is responsible for quite a satisfactory level. In addition to the existing legal framework governing the functioning of the body, the Director may allocate the police officers to the extent of Officer I who serve there according to more specific staff needs that may prevail in its individual areas of territorial competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Economou. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor for three minutes, so he doesn't have a complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u228	Minister, I asked a very specific question about two specific police departments and I heard even about the Aegean islands. An unprecedented incident took place about a year ago, in June. We had the murder of a professional downtown Atalant. After the murder, you yourself received a letter from the Association of Atalantes, which states: "There is now intense fear and anger among the citizens and visitors of Atalantine. Please, Minister, take immediate steps to resolve these phenomena so that our city returns to normality as from 29 June 2020.’ As a result of the letters and all the actions taken by the municipality and the clubs, what have you done? You weakened by five people the Atalant Police Department. I am very specific and I expect specific answers. The result of your actions was on 31 January 2021, a few days ago, in the center of Atalant "planned with kalashnikovs spread the terror in the morning. Four people with heavy weapons blew up the ATM in the center of the Lokritan capital". In Fthiotida "The raid of robbers at dawn in LARCO. They threatened the guard, blew up with explosives of the ATM located inside the facility and grabbed the cassettes with the money, a month ago. At a meeting I had a few days ago at the Town Hall of Tithorea in the Municipality of Amphiclia Elias, the first theme that the mayor raised me was the issue of policing. And I ask you, because you are aware of the object, knowing the location of the Greek Police, is it possible in a municipality with six hundred and five hundred square kilometres of area the other - and a total of about forty thousand inhabitants - to have a car in the municipality of Locras with two police officers and in the municipality of Amphiclia Elias a patrol with a police officer? Are these the efforts you're making? Are these the high-level services offered? I expect a concrete response to strengthen the two specific police stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr Sarakiotis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Members of Parliament, I understand the increased interest in improving the policing that is being formulated in the debate on the current question for this region. Besides, this is the role that the Constitution reserves to the members of the National Representation, assigning them, among others, to highlight issues and to defend positions and opinions that reflect the interest of the region in their election. The request to strengthen the regional police services of the Greek police throughout the territory, as well as the citizens' interest in improving the level of public order and security, are a strong sign of the confidence with which they surround Greek police women and men. That is why I would like to stress in the most emphatic way that the existing operational planning of the Greek Police is holistic, covering the whole of the territory, while at the same time having the required capacity to adjust in time, and geographically, where and where necessary the local police officer has every opportunity to intervene on it. It is the arm of the newly acquired under the modern security challenges of the Anti-Criminal Policy Programme for 2020-2024, which includes, inter alia, mapping local crime, reviewing existing and when new operational plans are required, continuous redefining of objectives to be achieved, intensification of actions where, and for as long as conditions and local public order and security challenges require. In particular, for the geographical area of the Fthiotis Police Directorate, specific operational plans are currently being updated for areas with increased cases of infringibility. For example, I mention two of them: Plan to prevent and suppress robbery, theft, burglary and the policing plan of the city of Locras. In addition, a mobile police unit has also been planned and operated to respond more fully and directly to public order and security issues, and is being implemented in the light of the instability of the feeling of security for citizens, especially those living in remote and mountainous areas of our country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved a great deal so far in the area of reducing crime. But we don't have any illusions. There is still a lot to be done in the fight against all forms of crime in the country in general and of course in those areas you have mentioned. That is why we continue to work methodically, firmly and with clear targeting for the safety of citizens. In any case, Fthiotis is an area where crime is at a low level, the rate of detection of crimes in local services is satisfactory and, as I have already said, specific guidelines for better policing by moving forces and implementing special projects have been given in this direction. In any case, however, there is no reassurance, only plan, responsibility and hard work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Economou. Have a good day to both of you. We continue with the 15th under No 472/22/2021 topical question from the SYRIZA MP for the Second Cyclades - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Symbleniou to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy, on the subject: 'Will the lifting of the SEA DIAMOND shipwreck finally begin'? Here you go, Mr. Armachyn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, nearly fourteen years have passed since the submersion of the cruise ship “SEA DIAMOND” at the bottom of the Caldera of Santorini. It has also been four years since the final decision 515/2016 of the Ice Arrow, which lists the guilt of the master of the fatal cruise ship, as well as the business manager of the co-manager “Core Marine LTD”, while recognising the serious and continuing maritime pollution that has taken place and continues so far in the maritime area of Santorini, which also makes the need to lift the shipwreck imperative. Despite the lengthy and deliberate delays and repetitions concerning the interpretation of the legislation of Law 2881/2001 which shifts responsibility to the Port of Theras, which, of course, has no chance of achieving the rise today, the Ministry of Shipping is deliberately ignoring Council Decision 1820/2019, which decided that the Ministry of Trade Shipping has a direct and autonomous obligation to initiate the procedures for lifting the SEA DIAMOND. At the same time, there is unjustified negligence and impediment to imposing fines and collecting those already imposed. Then ask: Is there planning and programming to raise the 'SEA DIAMOND'? If so, what is the timetable for these? Secondly, does it intend to apply the final decisions of Greek justice? Thirdly, will you proceed to collect the fines imposed? In closing my prototype, I would also like to ask why you canceled the repetitive international competition of the Public Port Authority for the lifting of the shipwreck a little while ago and, of course, did you also proceed with the abolition of the AAL? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, too. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis, will answer. Mr. Plakatakis, good evening, good week and good month I wish you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all for us the case of the cruise shipwreck 'SEA DIAMOND' in Santorini is a matter of great interest, the successful outcome of which is a primary purpose. However, I would also like to mention that for this shipwreck, as you know, there is a course of long-term administrative and judicial developments, which, of course, have not yet been completed. From the first day of the shipwreck to the present day, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy and the competent Port Authority of Thera have adopted over six hundred decisions and fines totalling EUR 8,238.094 have been imposed. These fines have been established to the competent economic authorities and the debtors are obliged to pay the relevant fines on the basis of the provisions on the collection of public revenue. So I do not understand, Mr Symmoleni, that you should have known that specific fines have been imposed on the shipwreck case. Referred to the recent Decision of the Council of State of 1820/2019, published on 2 October 2019. What, then, does this decision mention? It states that the relevant competence to implement Law 2881/2001, i.e. is the well-known shipwreck law, first it is held by the Thera Municipal Port Fund, but also by central administration as an independent obligation. In this connection I would like to state clearly and unequivocally that the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy respects and will implement judicial decisions. What have we done specifically about it? My own decision has set up a project group of senior representatives of the Secretariat-General of the Port and Maritime Investment Policy and representatives of the Port House in order to examine and deliver an opinion to the Tripartite Council for the Compliance of the Council of State for the two experts, carried out under Decisions 51/2017 and 373/2018 of the Piraeus Tripartite Court of Appeal, as well as to monitor all necessary actions, which will arise and concern the lifting of this shipwreck. And let me tell you, Mr Symphony, that these are no moves, no impressions, nor any moves which you have had on your day, and no legal orientation at all, because you have reached the point of entrusting the effective management of this matter to an irresponsible authority. The Public Port Authority was an irresponsible authority, it had absolutely no competence in administering this shipwreck. So the work is not easy. The technical parameters of this project are complex and of course special. In any case, I would like you to know that in the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy the data are collected from all the relevant institutional bodies, such as the PPE, on the burden of the marine environment in the maritime sector. Finally, you ask me whether there is planning and planning for the lifting of the shipwreck. Mr. Symphony, you should know that there are two experts on this shipwreck. In one of them, it says: 'The lifting of the shipwreck is possible, but it is an undertaking that requires a thorough study by working together different operators, preparation, detailed and complex work involving environmental and human risk and high cost'. And it concludes: 'The conduct of an undertaking to draw oil pollutants also poses risks and a high degree of complexity'. Therefore, we all understand that this company is a difficult one, requires further specialisation for the way, but especially for the cost. We expect the next period of time to determine the technical modalities of lifting this shipwreck and on that basis to determine the actual financial costs. Under no circumstances - and I would like to assure you of that - we are not following a paradoxical policy. We are in close cooperation with the Municipality of Santorini - our legal staff - in direct and lasting communication so that after we have a comprehensive picture, we agree on how to achieve our common goal. My conviction is that the Greek state should exhaust all means in order to deliver a healthy marine environment to Santorini and away from us to endure in any way the economic and social well-being of the island's inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Symphony, you've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u236	First of all, I would like to say to the Minister that I am pleased that he is telling the Ministry that the issue of shipwrecking is a major issue. In relation to whether there is a paradoxical policy or not, Minister, it has been fourteen years. I am not saying that we do not have responsibilities in the four and a half years that we have ruled, but it is now fourteen years. When are we finally going to say that there is no paradoxical policy? All the judicial data have come to an end. As you said, the last decision of the Council of State No 1820/2000 of October 2019 says that the municipality of Theras cannot alone - and because it does not have the appropriate infrastructure and does not have the appropriate means - to go back to this work, in the complex, indeed, of lifting the temple, the central administration needs assistance. And that is why Mr Dritsa and Mr Kourublis later joined the IAL - which you abolished - the problem of shipwrecks throughout Greece. Before you abolish it, it existed in its regulation, in Article 32 - if I am not mistaken, I may be mistaken in the number - of a shipwreck section, which was responsible for the shipwrecks of the whole country. And that's why he proceeded on your days after two competitions. The first competition didn't end. A few days before submitting tenders for the second tender, you abolished the tender and then abolished the AAL. In relation to fines, fines, of course, were charged and charged. The question is what was collected. We haven't seen exactly what has been collected so far. You said 8.2m euros. What has been collected from this money, from the fines charged for pollution, which is continuing? The big issue - as you know - and according to the study carried out by the University of Crete under Professor Yidarakos was found to be a pre-corrosion in the slag of "SEA DIAMOND". There are various materials inside the ship and it's not just fuel. It is an entire hotel equipment with what this implies for heavy metals. So you understand that this nightny bomb might shut up and it'll blow up. The consequences will unfortunately be tragic if it has not risen. We understand that the project is difficult. We understand that the funds are too much. The polluter pays, says the law. Unfortunately, the company has not done so, because the company's interests are very strong and are covered. I think that the Greek State should now bear the costs and charge through the procedure known to the company these costs. There is no other room for delay. I think we're quite late, all the governments and I'm telling you right away. I will simply state in the Minutes the decisions made in the SYRIZA government at that time, to see that political interest and political will existed. Of course, it has not been the result, and this is what we apologise to the beast people, but the question is that there was the political will within the difficulties of the third memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Armachin. Mr. Placiotakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u238	First of all, Mr President, I think we all agree that this is an extremely complex and very specific issue, which certainly concerns the wider region of Santorini. In any case, however, we must act on the basis of legality. That is why I told you before that the initiatives you had taken on your own days were legally waste. And why were they legal mists? Because the public authorities of ports had absolutely no competence under Law 2881/2001 for this shipwreck. That's why it didn't work. The final judicial decision of the Piraeus Court is also pending exclusively for the port operator and I am referring to the Thera Municipal Port Fund. So, since we have the final judicial decision by the Court of Appeal of Piraeus, we have the two experts, which currently exist on the basis of the subject-matter of the work group, which they have set up to decide on these experts, having a full picture of this issue and always in cooperation with the Municipality of Santorini and our legal staff, we will launch the best possible solution on the basis of course of real and realistic objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u239	Thank you too, Minister. Have a good day to both of you. We continue with the first, with number 2956-28-12-2020 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II Piraeus of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Tryphoon Alexiadis to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "Great the suffering of long waiting times that are experienced by the traders, unprotected in the outdoors of banks, savings banks, telephony shops". Mr Alexiadis, good evening, good week and good month, and not only would I fill in your question. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u240	Good month, Mr President, and good spring, and we hope that the real spring will come, beyond the calendar. With regard to the topical question, the whole process was initiated by a simple question that we tabled thirty Members to three Ministries, assuming that we would have an answer to a very serious social problem, which for good reasons is missing from many reports, headlines or live media connections. We understand that advertising sometimes affects and what will play on the news. So what do we say with our question? With our question of thirty Members of Parliament in three Ministries, we ask the ministers to answer us on the issue of the suffering of long waiting times experienced by citizens in difficult weather outside banks, post offices, mobile telephony companies, where they have to go to deal with problems that cannot be solved otherwise, either because they are old and do not have access to electronic and digital services, or because they need a personal presence. So we have tabled the question to three ministries on such an important issue that concerns all of Greece and all the neighbourhoods and especially the old ages. The Treasury has repudiated to answer us. The Department of Digital Governance has decided to answer us. That's why we turned it into a timely one. The Ministry of Interior, while in question (c) we say that if there is a design in consultation with the municipalities, special permits for the placement of temporary roofs and seats are issued to serve citizens, while we ask for this very simple thing, it answers us that it is not in the Home Ministry's package of competences. I am saying this for the Minutes and for morals. So the question is simple and I imagine we will get an answer today: How will you deal with the long and long queues of citizens outside these areas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, Mr Alexiadis. The Deputy Minister of Digital Governance will answer George Stylos. Good evening, Mr. Style, and good week, good month and with the opportunity to tell you courage and iron in your new duties. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will reply as far as the Ministry of Digital Governance is concerned, which is the responsibility of the Post Office of the country. I understand and understand your point. Besides, there is no need for any special knowledge, some more experience. Just take a walk to any city on working days in peak hours where we see tails outside and from the ELTA stores. What, then, is the government's view of managing and dealing with this issue? First of all, guidance is given to the ELTA administration and management of the stores so as to make it easier for citizens, customers, the service providers. As you know, however, we are in the middle of an unprecedented pandemic, we are in the midst of restrictive measures which none of us would want, but public health is forcing us to do so. So we hear the recommendations from experts, scientists. The decisions taken by the public bodies in ELTA, the Hellenic Post Office, followed by the instructions they give, are adapted. What are these instructions? It is the world to enter the store in part, to keep distances as they have been established, to keep the hygiene measures both between and between the citizens, customers and the workers of the stores. We want and want to ensure the best conditions for everyone, for workers, for citizens, for the whole world. In fact, special directive has been given to the elderly and disabled people in particular, to have a special interest and service by the ELTA workers. I want to inform you that there are services provided by ELTAs from a distance. It is the well-known Porta - Porta, where no one needs to go to the ELTA store. He can call and go the ELTA worker to his home and be served there. There are bank transactions that are currently provided by ELTA via Eurobank branches, which exist in several - not all - ELTA stores across the country. Let me inform you that we now have the electronic stamp with which they can be served. This is a stamp that one can use from one's home, from his computer to buy it and then use it. You know very well that we have all been working in the Ministry of Digital Governance and, in particular, the Minister responsible for the last twenty months, so that the country's digital transformation can progress rapidly so that we can provide citizens with tools that can help them to save time, effort and thus avoid confusing conditions and collapsing, which so much need not now exist in the midst of pandemic. That's all I had to say for now. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Alexiadis, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Minister, for answering and giving your duties a very difficult time. However, as a representative of the Government and not as a representative of a Ministry, the question was not answered. So, to the grandpa who gets his medicine in the morning for health reasons and then goes for a simple job and is set up for a couple of hours in a tail and cannot be served because they are closed and everything - I do not want to start saying strange details here - how are we going to answer this man about this problem? And our question was launched by a communication from bodies in Salamis, which people from the Labour Center, firefighters, workers in the Navy and others raise the problem that is very important, but too many actors across Greece have spoken about this issue. You only told us about the ELTAs. We are talking about banks and mobile telephony companies. And especially banks and telephony companies during the crisis are recording over-profit. The banks also record a record of deposits. Let them dedicate little money to putting roofs and chairs on people and a chemical toilet on the outside to be served in elementarily in the many hours they expect. We're not asking for anything terrible. In relation to ELTAs, the ELTAs support them, we love them, and we hope that their privatisation and dissolution plans will not be completed. However, similar actions must also be taken in ELTAs. And with regard to these issues, let me say this: we are talking about digital governance. The public has now become a joke on elementary things. Try the mobile phone company - I don't know who you have, I don't do advertising or defamation - get a simple tip or log in with a representative or the bank you have a card. It has now become the subject of advertising confrontation. One company advertises that "I don't have a robot to answer, I have an employee". It is terrible that the citizen's suffering should receive any information from the phone and people are forced to go there. Well, I'm making a request. We hear about the state of staff, digital governance and everything else. It's very good for some, but a large part of the population is afflicted. And this has nothing to do with natural suffering. It also has the exclusion of many benefits, such as allowances, etc., for which it has to go to these bodies to get something, so that it can move anywhere else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We could also include taxes and other public services in our question. But here, we are only talking about them because - I say again - when banks and mobile telephony companies are currently having such large amounts, over-profit and increased deposits, let them devote a little euros to serving their citizens, their customers. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. Mr. Style, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I understand your point. It concerns private sector companies such as banks and mobile telephony companies. I replied to the post office, which is my responsibility for the specific ministry. Let's make it clear, though, two things. One is the private sector and one is where the state has competence and role. In the private sector, you all understand that we can only give encouragement. I certainly appreciate - and you know too - that this cannot be done by a universal government decision. The local authorities or the first degree of self-government could, in collaboration with private companies, even with ELTAs, see where and how some intervention is needed, of course, following the rules of architecture, circulation and all these rules they know. You understand that a central directive cannot be given, but mayors can take the initiative, along with the directors of some stores and companies, and provide solutions. In relation to ELTAs, I will insist and urge them again, for the first chapter, to do more with greater interest, more directly and more quickly so that they can serve the world, cooperate with self-government and where they can and can exhaust every margin to serve the citizens and the world. I must also say to you, Mr Alexiadis: in ELTA we have the universal service, whose purpose and purpose are throughout Greece, even in the last most remote home in the country, to be able to provide upgraded and quality services, which all citizens enjoy. It is an obligation of our own government, which we are looking forward to better prospects. Because you know that, at the beginning of December, a law was passed in the House on the transformation of the ELTAs, a rescue plan for the company, so that we have a financial rationalisation, that we have a surplus and that we have a more comprehensive reorganisation of the distribution network. In the end this will lead to the benefit of the citizens. Finally, I would like to ask you to help us separate electronic and digital governance, the state, from issues relating to the private sector or to third parties. I'll give you a clue. Recently announced by our Ministry, the Minister responsible, Mr. Pierracakis, said that online transactions reached 90 million, when the previous year, 2019, was 50, while 2018 was around 8.5. What does that mean? It means that many intermediate attitudes made by the citizens - going to the guise - have been abolished. Because with these interoperable features, you get straight to the final service and so you don't have to go through many stages. This is in the midst of today's government, it's a positive sign and we want you to recognize it. Moreover, the evidence cannot be disputed. We therefore want you to contribute in that direction. I understand what you said. The ELTAs will be given a directive and we are here to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. We will close with the fourteenth under No 463/22-2-2021 topical question of the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilias - Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct need for permanent appointments of school nurses". Mr Arseni, good evening, good week and good month. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the cause of the question is the loss of a child, you know it, which is from your constituency, from Volos. A young girl, nine years old, and I would like to take my condolences to her family. I can't even imagine what it's like to lose a nine-year-old child. So children are being lost - and there are many cases, Madam Minister, in our schools - because they eat a school coin inappropriate, which causes them allergy. In case of the child from Volos, as I understand it, she was informed that there would be this treat and she didn't think it would cause her allergy. That is the terrible allergies, Minister, and that is why there must be a horizontal ban on all school curtains. You can't predict what it would cause allergy and loss of the child. I have invited you here, to discuss and to listen to your commitment to two things: one is that school coins will be banned horizontally and, secondly, that we will now have school nurses at every school, depending on the number of students. Some may need more than one. I will also pass on the requests of the parents themselves who have children with allergies. Apart from school nurses at each school, the demands are: adrenalines and defibrillators in schools, education of all teachers, first aid seminars and CARPAs, change of the law to grant adrenaline in the event of life or death, change of way of school excursions, away from hospitals, ban on food off packing in the canteens, ban on edible treats, school pharmacy necessarily at every school. I think all this is self-evident. I would like your commitment to take them into account and to implement them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u249	Thank you. The speech is made by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Makri. Mrs. Macrie, good evening, good week and good month. You have three minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Here we are, Mr Colleague, at our weekly meeting, every Monday. This time we are on an unpleasant occasion, you have also mentioned it, which really happened in Velestino, in my constituency, where an eight-year-old girl left. I also publicly express my condolences to the family, which I know and have contacted her. I believe that we must all commit ourselves and wish at the same time that there will be no further loss to the educational community. We shall therefore speak on this extremely unpleasant occasion for school nursing. I will remind you, Mr. Colleague, because I am sure you know this, that according to v.4186/2013 students who do not serve themselves, attend with the support and the presence of special assistant staff, depending on the type of disability and the specific educational needs arising from it. The possibility of supporting pupils may also apply to a school nurse following an opinion from a public hospital. A Circular is issued each year by the Ministry of Education, including the procedures and conditions for the approval and support of a school nurse, while requests may be submitted during the school year. Only a thousand seven hundred ninety eight requests were approved throughout the territory for this year. With a special cybernical circular of the Ministry of Health for students and students with serious health problems - indicative, cardiological diseases, allergies, neurologics, metabolism issues - the content of their individual health card, with the agreement of the parent and guardian, may be disclosed to the nearest health care school, so that immediate intervention can be made in cases of emergency. The appointments and recruitment of specialised educational staff and special assistant staff are divided into a thousand forty appointments of permanent members of specialist and assistant staff in the framework of the notices for Article 1, Article 2019 and Article 2E of the AACC in the special education and training establishments. Of these fourteen were branches of school nurses, sixty - three for primary school and fifty - one for secondary school. It provides for six thousand eight hundred nine recruitments of alternate members of special educational and special assistant staff under Law 4589/19 for the establishment of school units and special education structures in the country, starting on 26 August 2020. In particular, out of the total of six thousand eight hundred nine recruits of assistant teachers and assistant staff, the thousands of five hundred five are recruits of school nurses and the eighty seven nursing staff in special education and training units, as well as for special support. Of these, three hundred and eighteen relate to recruitment in the context of specialized support. Since the first phase of recruitment, there have been shortcomings in the school care sector due to the limited interest of the candidates. We have said that to another question you asked about it, but on more subtle lines. Now it's more detailed my presentation and I'll do it in dentistry. So we are doing intensive and careful steps to fill gaps. For the education and training of teachers, to deal with an allergic shock event in a student or student, the forms and content of the training have been determined by the provisions of Presidential Decree 250 of 1992. For the design of the training programs a competent body is IPA, and the implementation of the programs is carried out by the Regional Educational Planning Centres, the well-known PCIs, which can also collaborate with the Centres for Sustainable Education, the organization of innovative school activities in environmental, culture and health, and therefore organise and co-organise training programs for lifelong or distance education in order to provide first aid to students and students in cases of emergency allergic shock.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Makri. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Mrs Makrere, you mentioned to me what has happened since 1992, but at the moment we have a tragic event. You said you knew the family. Let's use it, let's not lose this kid. Let's get things changed. There's no point in describing what's already happening to me. I would ask you to tell us what you will do from now on in the gaps that exist to resolve the issues. I'm asking you two specific things. One to ban school treats and the other to hire school nurses at each school, because you know very well that, apart from the known cases, there are many children who have allergies that do not know about it. And the third thing I would ask you to do is to motivate the nurses from remote areas. Even in Agios Nikolaos, Crete, the notice for the position of a school nurse is inappropriate, because no one wanted to go. An incentive should be given to more remote areas, because, as you can see, children should be protected with allergies wherever they are located, not just those close to large urban centres. So I ask you what you're going to change from now on, not what you're already doing. What are you going to do extra. Because what you have already done, they have not been able to function in the case of the little girl. So something needs to be changed, and that's what I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u253	Mrs. Macrie, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to give you this information because, as I have said to you in your previous question - and every Monday, we meet here every Monday, because you have an increased interest, which really moves us to the Ministry on education issues - I understood that some issues you obviously did not know about. I will return to this by publicly telling you that moves are already being made by the Ministry and initiatives, which will be in the direction you want, and we recognise that there is a need. It is simply because these meetings and initiatives are at an early stage, that I am not going to make them known today. However, I would like to inform you very quickly, perhaps next week. However, I will mention - and for those who are listening to us - the elements of the ministry's services that show the limited interest of the candidates in the sector, because that is something the world needs to know about. It's a situation that should be known. Following the reopening of primary school units on 11-1-2021, our services collected the functional gaps and on 15/1/2021 a recruitment flow was made for all the declared gaps. The result of the flow, Mr Colleague, was that only forty alternates of the school care department were recruited, and the twenty of them would not even take up a service. Subsequently, our service requested the registration of the remaining gaps per school unit and issued a special invitation, where, for the first time, Article 165 "Enterprise of temporary subsidized nurses" by Law 4763/20, on the possibility of recruiting alternates for the IP25 sector and candidates for the IP87.02 Nursing sector, was applied. All available candidates, who amounted to a thousand forty-three, were informed by our Ministry by no-reply email for the possibility of participating in this process. The annexes to the special invitation included all the gaps, i.e. those which were uncovered from the previous phase of 15 January, as well as those resulting from the non-commitments. Of these three hundred eighty-four were involved in specialized support from a school nurse. During the recruitment flows on 5 February, seventy-two alternates were recruited, so the three hundred 12 blanks remained uncovered. From these seventy-two recruitments, they did not take up a service of thirty-three, despite the increased sanctions for the non-commitment of a service. That's because you talked about motives. There are also sanctions. However, they do not prevent anyone from coming, who is a lot of them. The Ministry examines various possibilities for covering these gaps. In addition, I would like to inform you that the Deputy members of special scientific and special assistant staff are financed through approved operations, which are entitled: "Specialised educational support for the integration of disabled and special educational students", as part of the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources, Education and Lifelong Learning 2014-2020, as well as the Regional Operational Programmes. With regard to parallel support, for the school year 2020-2021, the recruitment of nine thousand nine hundred sixty alternates is expected, a budget of EUR 146 million from the operational programme I mentioned before, while the recruitment of eight hundred six alternates, a budget of EUR 23.6 million, is expected from the MAGP. Our Ministry has the responsibility of allocating recruitments according to the needs and estimated numbers of alternates per category of region. In the context of these acts, teachers are employed who collaborate with the class teacher. This is parallel support, as you know and only support disabled students or special educational needs. As regards the strengthening of the school units of special education and training and the inclusion sections, for the year 2020-2021, it is implemented through the same programme as I mentioned before, the ‘Programme of measures for individualised support for disabled and specific educational needs’. The budget is about EUR 50 million for the recruitment of two thousand nine hundred alternates operating in general and vocational education schools. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Makary. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-01-S1-commons.u256	(a) Parliamentary control, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
