ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis informs the House that in the context of Parliamentary Control the timely questions to be debated today are as follows: The numbers. 7/4-10-2021, 11/4-10-2021 and 24/4-10-2021 topical questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Athanasios Ploris. The numbers. 27/4-10-2021 and 28/4-10-2021 topical questions, which will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendonis. O.J. No. No. 30/4-10-2021 topical question, which will be answered by the Minister for Migration and Asylum Mr Panagiotis Mitsarakis. No. No. 12/4-10-2021 topical and urgent question, which will be answered by the Minister of Tourism, Mr Vassiliou Kikilia. No. No. 23/4-10-2021 topical and urgent question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Constantine Frangoyannis. The numbers. 4/4-10-2021 and 16/4-10-2021 topical questions, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs Mr. No. No. 20/4-10-2021 topical and urgent question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Constantine Katsafados. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Rapid political trial, adaptation of the provisions of the political procedure for the digitisation of civil justice, other amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and other provisions of the Ministry of Justice". We shall therefore begin with the sixth question under number 30/4-10-2021 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Continuity to the anti-European policy of the Government with the disappearance of refugees'. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we have a new phenomenon, people disappear to Greece. It was the recent event in Vassilici, Messinia, where twenty-five refugees arrive on the shores, probably Turkey, probably Iraqi Kurds, are given assistance from citizens in Vassilici - water and food - then entering the port cars and disappearing, unlike fixed practice, which is as follows: Being on buses, buses are transported for COVID and beyond. These people have disappeared. There are pictures. The article was published on the ERT page, the testimonies for their collection and provision by water and food residents. Nevertheless, the Port denies that these people have been. We are told by the two regional councillors who visited the port and who also the port said they were missing, both Mr. Petrakos and Mr. Katsaris. It's not the only fact. They had preceded the events of Folegandr, where we have eighty-five refugees arriving and then missing, we have Samos, we have Lesvos. A total of four thousand people who survived, but were not transferred to the islands, were not recorded in the arrivals. We want you to tell us clearly what is happening right now in the country. Do people disappear? Are we training security bodies to disappear people? Today are the refugees, tomorrow who? I want you to be clear about what is happening right now with people from Vasilici, people from Folegandros, Samos, Lesvos and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, it goes without saying that this is not the case. It is true that in our country, in no case can people disappear, nor could there be such phenomena in a favoured state as you describe. This particular incident you mention happened in the Peloponnese, I don't find it in our records, I don't know it as an incident. I know, however - and I do not know whether it is connected, and if you like, I say it out of notes - that this year we have very increased flows from Turkey to Italy. In other words, we have flows of vessels that move in international waters without stopping at Greek places to find control items by the Greek authorities or want - which do not want - to apply for asylum in our country, continue their journey to Italy. I think - if I remember correctly - that about seven thousand people have arrived from the Turkish coast to Italy this year. I do not know whether this incident - if it has been - is an example of a life to Italy. I want to tell you that, because our country has recently been under attack on the issue of protecting our borders, it cannot be acknowledged that a 90% reduction in flows in 2021 compared with 2019 has deprived hundreds of millions of people in the poaching industry. It goes without saying that it will create an tension towards our country. We have clearly said that by applying international law, with full respect for the European Border Safety Regulation, our country guards its borders. Greece also has land and sea borders. Recently a letter from a majority of the Member States of the European Union to the European Commission has been tabled - I say this because there were some articles by Members of the Civil Liberation Officers who say that Greece is signing Visegrad documents - countries from the North, the South, from Central Europe, from the point of view of this: as migration is now working on multiple fronts at the same time, as Europe is not bordering on warfare countries and the majority of arrivals are not in danger and the country of transit is not in danger, it is important to redefined how the Schengen Code works, how border security works. So, in conclusion, Greece yes, it guards its borders. But it is always doing so with full respect for the requirements of international and European law and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u5	I would ask you all to be in time, because after the topical and urgent debate there is another procedure. Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'm incompetent. The question concerns Vassilis and you come here to tell me that you do not know what the topical question is, do you come here to tell me that you have not been informed? You came to tell us "I don't know - I don't answer"? And who knows? Is it possible to have a specific question about what the refugees in Vasilici have done and to come to this Chamber to tell us that you do not know what happened and you are not informed? You just don't want to say they're missing. Theater of irrationality are we playing in here? It is not at your discretion to come uninformed for a timely question. When there is a specific question, you are obliged to ask the services and answer them. And you always do. You just didn't have what to say now. We will, however, proceed to see what other assumptions you do not know - you are not answering. Folegandros: Eighty-five refugees arrive in the bay of Agkali on 5 September. The next day, curiously opposite exactly, in Kusadasi, the Turks rescue eighty-four. Samos: Twenty-five refugees arrive on the island. Once they're disembarked, they move towards the villages. They are cured by the inhabitants of the village of Lekka - they were exhausted by a lack of water and food - the police find the refugees there and arrest them. The police then remove all their personal items and when they ask why they do so, they respond "why they will be given back to the CYPD". It never happened. They boarded, on the basis of complaints, in a white van without registration plates and their trails lost. Are you training the Security Bodies to violate the Greek Constitution and the laws? Do you know how dangerous this thing you're doing, beyond the violation of international legality, beyond how inhumane it is? Do you know how dangerous it is to train Security bodies to violate the Constitution and the laws? That's incomprehensible. I call on the Bureau to ask the Minister to answer the written questions of the timely question, as is happening in this Chamber, and they are the democratic principles of this Chamber, which we are trying with nails and teeth, now, to defend.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u7	Mr Arseni, let me tell you that the Bureau does not have such a responsibility. The government is responsible for it, as is not responsible for what you say. So he has neither the responsibility for what you say nor what the government answers. He'll be evaluated for that. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u8	I think that my colleague has had a difficulty in understanding my answer. I did not say that I was not prepared to answer, nor did I tell you that I do not want to answer you. I said to you that I answer: "This incident you describe does not exist for the Greek authorities as a registered asylum case." My answer is clear. You may not like it, but that's reality. For us as a country and for the Security Body, this incident does not exist. I told you a possible explanation - which was clearly a personal opinion of what might have happened if this incident happened. I told you that there is an organised effort from the poachers' circuits to produce material to pressure our country not to guard its borders, to relive the clientele of the previous years, to make hundreds of millions of profits in their pockets, these poachers, who carry people from the "safe" country, Turkey, to Greece in order to take them to Germany. That's human suffering trade, Mr. President. So our country has clearly said that it guards its borders and we train the Security Body to respect the Constitution and the laws of the state. If you do not like border policy and you believe in a different society, which no longer has national characteristics, that is your personal view. But it is not the view of the government majority, it is not the view of the majority of the Greek people, it is not the view of the majority of the Member States of the European Union. Europe has borders, it has procedures, it has laws. And we keep them! From there on, we will continue to confront - and we know - organised propaganda. Of course, as I said on Friday at the Council of the European Union, when there are specific complaints with material, it goes without saying that the Greek authorities will investigate any particular accusations there is. Government control, as you know, is done by independent justice, by the independent authorities, and that in our country is functioning effectively and correctly. So I answered you very specifically in your question. I accept that you may not like my answer. From there on, the government will continue to do what it needs to do: protect the Constitution and the general interest of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u9	We continue with the third with the number 12/4-10-2021 top-level question of the first-round question of the Corfu MP of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "A very serious risk of the suspension of the operation of IKK Tourism Corfu". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your response. The question concerns, as you have seen, the IKK Tourism Corfu. Let me say that we have been talking about an IEK with nine divisions, with five retraining departments, a five hundred students IEK, a IEK operating in Corfu since 1976. This is a school where more than five thousand people have graduated from its departments, a school that is closely linked to the island's tourism economy and not just a school whose facilities and logistics have nothing to be jealous of from the best private education establishments in Europe and not just. An IEK that the local society of Corfu has embraced. An IEK that its workers are very much rewarding for its educational activity, as it is huge to accept in the workplace. An IEK who, besides others, trains professionals in the industry at a time when we so much need them. An IEK which is an example of linking knowledge to practice and education with work. An IEK where teachers have been hostage workers for many years. They're hourly with fixed-term contracts, eight months usually. An IKU that, according to data and figures, should have in its organogram at least six permanent and has not one. An IEK that is an originality for Greece, and not only because it does not have a single employee as permanent staff. What do you have to answer to them, Minister? What do you have to say about the last event, which was the resignation of his director, Mr Bakiras, where he, by his resignation, points out what the training has been aroused and when we talk about Mr Bakira, the director of this school, has been talking about a man who has spent his life in the last forty years in this school. We are talking about a man who has passed from all levels, about a man who has come to be a teacher, director, an administrative officer, who has given his soul, and who knows it, everyone knows it. And he, who may have been the last partner of your ministry that you could talk to, leaves us because he can't stand it anymore. So what are we going to do to all of them? What can we tell hotel owners and restaurants, who are waiting to take staff from the school and do not have that possibility? That is why IEK Tourism is talking about and not about any IEK. I would ask you very much, if possible, to tell us about this IEK and the problems that have arisen, without 'if', without'maybe' and without any escaping. Everyone, people of tourism, students, youths, local society are expecting it. They expect it from you very anxiously. The depreciation and the end of this IEK, unfortunately, seems to be before the doors. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I recognise as being sincere your concern and because I also watch on your social media your sincere interest in the place and through your family, as you write, the sincere interest in children living in Corfu, in the dreams they have in, where there is no doubt that they are connected with the tourist product, I respond directly at the beginning to the question of the operation of this particular IEK and I make it clear that there is no question of the suspension of IEK Corfu. On behalf of the Ministry they are paid - I have asked for the whole history of the services, because I understand that this is a time story and I will explain what I mean - all the efforts and will continue to be made, despite the objective issues that have arisen over all these years and which you are a social person, in order to serve fully, to improve his function and to communicate in practice with any interested party. Mr President, not only do I believe in continuing the operation of the IEKs, but I believe in their modernisation, I believe in cooperation with the Ministry of Education - it is also my colleague, Mrs Secretary here - so that we can upgrade the possibility of training high, medium and low administrative officials for our tourism in our IEKs. We believe that the time has come for us to have a tourist academy, which if you want in the whole function of the educational party in these tourism executives to give more opportunities, to offer more quality services and to give the right to the need that exists in Greece and throughout Europe by staffing, to respond. But you also asked me about Corfu. I'll give you a detailed answer to my dentistry. All I can say is that, with the completion of the procedures - and the procedures are moving forward - the educational units will be able to start the new educational year, where they are expected to come to the end of the month. The usual practice in recent years has been to complete the procedures in previous years and reach the end of November. I will hear your dentistry and answer for Corfu in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you too, Minister. My colleague Mr. Biagis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u14	Minister, with all due respect from the first moment in my position, I have asked you to speak the language of truth. You are talking and planning for the future, when as a government in the last two years you have not shown any interest and have given no solution to the functioning of this IEK. You're talking about something that's going to happen. It's happened, Minister. Right now that we're discussing it, it's Monday. The day is business. There is no time for anyone who has an interest in his file to be hired an eight-month-old as an administrative staff. He can't go to school right now to file his file. The school is closed right now. The school's been locked in the last few days. The last person left was the director, who because of his love for this school also made the manager. He also received the files. Any fronts that existed openly covered by him. So, at the moment, we are talking about a school that does not open. In the morning there is no man to unlock it, Minister. Are you talking about theory and design for the next few months, for the next few years? I'm talking to you right now about five hundred students who have to go to IKK and they can't. The door isn't open, you know? Do you realize what I'm saying? It's not something that's going to happen, it's happened right now when we say it. The assurances, Minister, are coming from you and your predecessors and from the previous ones. The case has now reached its limits. School's not working. I told you before - and I did not say it at random - about those teachers who are working on a fixed-term contract. So, at the moment, there are no teachers in IEK. I spoke to you before about the administration you want to hire, because at the moment there is not one. I only spoke to you earlier about a permanent, director, who resigned. He didn't last anymore. So I told you that with this man you should discuss. You need to leave your Ministries and your chairs and speak, see the problem and come and deal with it immediately. At the moment, the school is closed, Minister. What do you not understand, that is, and you're talking to me about planning? For when? For the next few years? For the next four years? Today you're heard by the teachers. I told you that they have been professors who have been providing their knowledge for the past fifteen - twenty years because they love it, because it is their soul in there. They are these people who will come back now for eight months and will be paid through the hourly fee. There's no one at school right now. If we had the possibility right now, in an hour, in two hours, in three hours to visit the school, we would find it locked. What don't you understand and you don't answer that? I have begged you with all due respect for your face for all the things I describe and you have told me that you have made moves. I don't care what moves you've made but the result. The result is important, Minister. I don't know why this story fits. I don't know if, as many people say, some managers through your ministry block the operation of this school. I don't know. It's your job to find it. You asked for the vote of the Greek people to solve the problems and now they are waiting to get answers from you for five hundred students. They expect you to get your answers from sixteen teachers, whom in the last fifteen years you have been hostaged because they are fit to pay for a fixed -term contract. She is the only school in Greece that does not have a permanent in her staff. Nobody, Minister! You hear tension in my voice, but I assure you she is well-advanced. The whole society is watching the debate today and wants to learn from you about tomorrow. For tomorrow, however, not for 15 days. Today, I would say, not even tomorrow. The school's closed!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u16	Mr Colleague, I am the one who recognized your sincere interest. I am the one who does not understand the designations 'you do not understand', 'what you do not understand', 'you are red'. Please also very much from medicine, collegial - if you want - solidarity to be careful if you have goodness. There is no reason to raise the tone, when there are specific topics that you have known for many years now, in which administrations have tried to find solutions. I, I repeat, went very far back with the services, years, to understand from the times of restrictive budgetary policies because they have stopped becoming permanent recruitment, what is happening with the managers, the teachers who are retired. There are those who in the middle of an educational year eventually made their retirement papers, I saw how it worked. You say 'now, not in fifteen days'. But because there were many like you, who were only saying today, and they were only interested in today, and they were not looking for a radical solution, so based on the intakes, based on the weakness and interest that they did not show enough people who could have signed up and entered these procedures, we have come here to talk about a second-rate IEK. So let's go see. First, the Ionian Islands PYT has already sent an employee under number 4129-8-32021 to IKK Corfu. Secondly, with regard to the recruitment of educational staff, 17229/29-9-2021 was issued. It was published in an FEK and its summary in the press on the 9th day, i.e. a few days ago, in order to initiate the application procedure by the candidates. With regard to the recruitment of administrative staff, I am aware that this body has been approved by the competent body, i.e. by the AACC, under the number 16129/2021/1/20.2021 with its 4-10-2021 document. The other stages of the procedure, namely publication, summary of the notice in the press, receipt of candidates' requests, publication of results, etc., are carried out by the educational units of the Ministry of Tourism. I told you sincerely that, upon completion of the procedures, the educational units will be able to start the new educational year at the end of the month, on average one month earlier than the usual procedure in recent years, which was in November. I also inform you that legislation has been passed on the self-evident extension by three months of all the administrative staff contracts IMPORTATION of the educational units of the Ministry of Tourism, which have been extended since 24 June and have been extended, as have two administrative staff contracts in IKK Corfu, which expired on 25-26 June. Mr President, not only will IEK continue to operate, but I told you that there will be an attempt to settle on the basis of a planning of what needs and permanent staff are and that there will be a discussion with the Ministry of the Interior. That's the one part. Secondly, there will be an extension of the eight-month private-year contracts. Thirdly, it will remain the administrative staff that have been transferred and we will try to find another. And we're not going to move on...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u17	There is no, Minister,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u18	Please don't interrupt me, Mr. President. We will move forward and in such a way as to ensure that IEK operates in all appropriate actions. I didn't come here to cancel the services. I understand that the services are doing their job and the Greek State and the Ministry of Tourism in such a way - and this is the duty of a Minister, to control and ensure the operation - so that the entrepreneurs in Corfu, and the students and the workers and the commercial world involved in the tourism product, can be pleased and function at very high levels. After all, from the result I would say, Mr Colleague, it was and is still such love and interest, based on the coordinated actions that have been carried out by the previous political leadership throughout the last year, in what has to do with tourists and visitors on your island, which can only be good news for next year. So, in the educational section, we are in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, so that the educational programme can be upgraded and quality, if you like, upgraded the way we train those who will be on tomorrow's day, tomorrow, as members of our accommodations, hotels and tourist businesses, in cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism, so that they can be in the right time. I would also like to encourage you - because, as a Member of the island, you have both an interest and a responsibility - when the positions are proclaimed, to help so that you do so on the island and therefore the people concerned - who have many - can be included and able to function in this context. I, in any case, am also at your disposal in the context of parliamentary control and in the context of cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism, so that the appropriate solution can be found, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Minister, I just want to tell you an experience I have. The problem next year will probably be a lack of staff in tourism and focus on very good training. Of course it is not your responsibility or anything else, but if there is nothing to be done about having no staff, there will be a shortage. This year the entire sector had 30% to 40% lack of staff. I think we should all help to discuss this, see how that can be changed, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u20	You do well to put it. I would like to tell you that, because of the pandemic, not only in Greece, but also in Europe, there was an important part of the workers in the tourism sector, especially in the non-seasonal accommodation, that is to say, in the 12 months of operation that have not worked, it has decided to ensure that they live to try to find another way of working. We expect that a part of these workers will return back to the tourist product. Nevertheless, I am telling you that the need for young managers to train staff is acknowledged, attracting a profession which, in my view, in the coming years will be able to offer quality work, very well paid and high standards. But I repeat - I am now the new Minister of Tourism - that I believe that this can only be done on the basis of a serious plan, with a programme that is both sound and sustainable, so that we do not need the fellow Member and every fellow Member who has the sincere agony for his place to come here and seek to find out why two administrative officials have resigned, because two have retired and what are the cries of an IEK director's agony. That's how we've learned to work. I understand that there may be a lot of bad texts that come from the past, but I think that we can only take them seriously and with a plan, not with vocals and not - if you want - with communication wards that last one, two or five days. The matter is being temporarily resolved for this year, and it is being rediscovered the next day. This is not the right way of implementing a policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u21	I wish, Minister, I wish! We continue with the fourth with number 44-10-2021 topical question of the first-round question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Fastoid Fortification in the 1st and 2nd PAAL Stavroupolis of the IP Thessaloniki". You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, the facts are well known, they are very recent and they have even been seen by all Greece. A school building, which houses the 1st and 2nd PASALs of Stavroupoli in Thessaloniki, for two days fascist, Nazi groups with hoods attacked with stones, cadrons, with flares, molotovs against students, students, parents and teachers. We've seen this. The attacks of these fascists were not only taken out of school by cruisering, but also by means, where two students were injured. One, and one, she's a 15-year-old student, who had the courage and the old lady to protest about all this and beat her up. As all of Greece saw, these fascist groups, Mrs. Minister, for two whole days and without at all, the addresses of these schools were being annoyed, mourned at school and going out undisturbed in front of the police, which has also been recorded by the journalistic lens. And not only that, but since the second day, Wednesday, when that day we were just talking about another question, at the very time of a new attack on these fascists, the MATs were throwing chemicals, you know where? Against the parents, against the teachers and against the students. It is clear that these hooded gangs, which for two days turned a school into a feminine moratorium, are organised right-wing fascist gangs, which are far away, are, better confronted with the problems of youth and students. These groups, by definition, oppose the demands of the people and their children. They're not hiding it, they're saying it openly, they're announcing it with their statements. The Golden Dawn youth itself, the criminal organization that a year ago was convicted as a criminal, welcomed these attacks. The next day, this continued on Thursday, September 30th. She continued in the Erosmos PSA, where there the police shone in her absence, and these fascist gangs came to hunt up to journalists, who were desperately seeking protection. On the basis of the above, of course, Minister, what will your Government do best, since it is not a question of your Ministry alone, in order to address the criminal activity of these Nazi groups, which seek to terrorise the student movement, what will you do to identify and punish the roots of these murder attacks and to investigate, of course, and the responsibilities of anyone in the state mechanism, from the police to anywhere else there are?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall reply, Mr Colleague, on behalf of our Ministry, not because our position is different from that of the other ministries, but because that is our area of responsibility. As you say, we were in this Chamber about ten days ago, it was the second day of the incidents at the Stavroupolis, and we all condemned, but among them I was answering to your question, violent behaviours. Colleague, violence, incidents, Nazi greetings are out of place in our schools. It is quite clear and we are saying this once again that we have zero tolerance to such criminal behaviour. We have zero tolerance to those who wear hoods, to those who have shaved heads, to those who fly molotovs, to those who have a shave and think that they can impose madness, paranoia or fascist ideas. Of course, it does not mean any room for the promotion and transmission of fascist behaviors of any color. Our care and care is to protect our children and not allow anyone to poison their minds. Our reaction and condemnation was immediate. Minister Niki Kerameou asked for the intervention of the Prosecutors' Prosecutors of Thessaloniki in good time, beyond its essential importance, and very symbolic, since as you know, the prosecutor of such offences intervenes on his own initiative. From the first moment the incidents took place, the Regional Director and the Director of Secondary Education of Western Thessaloniki was convened by a school council, in which representatives of the School Association of Teachers, the fifteen-member board of students, the Parents and Wardens, participated the school advisor and the coordinator of school life in order to deal with the incidents related to the educational and school process. There is already a sworn administrative examination to identify, if any, omissions, omissions and responsibilities of our relevant institutions and the behaviour of both pupils and students. And of course - I repeat - we will be vague about any type of violation and activity. Schools, yards and spaces around them are not battlefields. They belong to students and students, parents, the residents of the areas that host them. The Greek Police, with whom we had close cooperation, had taken the necessary steps to prevent a new conflict in PAAL Stavroupolis and intervened decisively when necessary. The forces that had been pushed on the spot have suppressed the escalation of tension, made more than fifty-nine incubations of people, of whom ten were arrested for violating the Arms Act. It is worth noting that within the school there were a group of young people with black clothes and covered persons who flew, among other things, four molotovs. They are practices that are violent, foreign to the school space, the smooth functioning of which they are blocking, and will be dealt with in accordance with the laws and democratic principles. Once again, we repeat that the government condemns violent behaviours such as those at the PESA Stavroupolis from wherever they come and makes it very clear that they will not be tolerated under any circumstances. It is not possible for any individual groups, right-wing groups or anything else to stand in the way of the progress of our children, to tarnish our schools, which are spaces of knowledge, creativity and free thinking. The gangs will not prevail over the laws of democracy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u26	Yes, the condemnation of violence 'from wherever it comes' is repeated in one way and today again. You know, in this particular issue of violence was a unique source, it had these fascist, Nazi, criminal gangs, which even had the origin of school itself. That's where they set up their men, their band. In any case, with a sworn administrative examination, Minister, we do not think that the government's responsibilities are spreading, as well as what may be done, unless all the appropriate measures are taken. Because the responsibilities of the state mechanism, I beg your pardon, are very severe and I will mention them, and the police, which has shown a characteristic tolerance to the criminal activity of these fascist groups, as well as of the administration of education itself, from the base to the top of it. The responsibilities of both schools, as well as of secondary education, Minister, are enormous, which is literally a breath from this school, the 1st - 2nd ESDP. Because with their tolerance, with the tolerance of these addresses, the school was turned into a banquet of fascists. Days were being prepared, and the students who went to school this morning were finally found locked in it. Apart from molotovs, wood, cadrons, and everything else, which for days had been picking up and collecting the school, and which made the school a proper storeroom of such warships, with the tolerance of the addresses, unfortunately, of the schools, are typical and the findings of the police in the home investigations where iron-bred, knives and a bunch of murdering instruments were found. Let me remind you here, Minister, that last year's address of one of the two schools in last year's occupation - because there was no occupation - had even called for the counterterrorism to deal with the mobilisation of students. In any case, because you described the actions of the government, what did the government and the Ministry of Education do? You said her actions were immediate. No direct ones were and they were, above all, unacceptable. By official announcement, the Ministry of Education itself, but also by statements on the other day of the State Secretary of Education, Mr. Syrigos, instead of condemning unequivocally, clearly and unequivocally the fascists, made dangerous, unacceptable setbacks and, behind general wordings, practically simulated the struggles of young people against fascism with fascism, with these crimes. Indeed in the same announcement - a monument to your Ministry, they referred to 'individual groups' and, if I am not mistaken about 'individual groups', it was the defensive line of the Golden Dawn in court while its criminal activity was being tried. Only you know, Minister, all these theories of both ends and netting is finally the best forgiveness for these fascists and it's the air in their sails for their criminal activity. But these reflexes of the government and the Ministry, which were very late, are suddenly activated, as you well know, when they are faced with the mobilisation of teachers. It's the Department. Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs? Should we call it a ministry of lawsuits and authoritarianism? Because that's what this is about. Every day the Ministry of Education makes a lawsuit, also prosecutes teachers who are struggling. You know this fight of teachers, Mr President and Minister, is not against evaluation. It's against categorisation of schools, against those who're working plans to keep children from forming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u27	Please, Mr. Comrade, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u28	This is a fair struggle, and this fight in no way can be illegal nor abusive. He's fair, he's required, and today you'll get a taste of this fight in the trial that's taking place at the courtroom.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u29	Please complete. No more, you've been in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u30	One more phrase, Mr President. Don't exhaust your rigour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u31	You should have told her earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u32	These struggles of the people are fair and why they seek to solve the problems, but also why they remove the ground from these fascist events.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u34	All matches are fair when law and judicial decisions are applied. I don't think we're far from that, or we need to say something more. Now, of course, I would not like to respond to my dentextology throughout education policy. In terms of evaluation it was a government programme, it has become state law, it will obviously be applied and in any case it neither categorises nor penalises nor does all that you have implied in your denunciation. But I will stay on the question you're asking me and I will tell you that if you listened carefully to what I answered in my prototype, you would see that I spoke about fascist behavior and condemned them unequivocally. This will not prevent me, Mr Colleague, from telling you that we in the government, in our Ministry, but also in my interest, condemn violence wherever it comes from. I don't know why it bothers you. I shouldn't, in my opinion. So, in my dentistry, I felt personally - all of us in the Ministry, but since I'm answering, I'm also going to make a personal mention - a disgrace when I saw the images of the young people who were greeting Nazis. What happened emits a hazard signal to everyone. The effort to decapitate young people from extremist and fascist groups should be intensified both in school and in society in general. Human rights and mutual respect, which exist in the skill workshops which have already started and are in place and operate globally since this year's school year, will be helped in this direction. We are showing zero tolerance, as we owe, to any fascist behaviour that threatens physical integrity, human lives, which devastates dignity, which imposes unacceptable anti-democratic behaviour outside the framework of the law in a number of activities. Our ministry's cooperation with the police was continuous. The police, as you can see, have the operational responsibility for preventing and dealing with violence. If you have objections and objections, I'm not in charge of answering them. We have proved, not only now, but also in the past, that we are firmly opposed to fascist attitudes, such as the criminal organisation Golden Dawn. With a government of our own party, Mr. Colleague, the proceedings for her prosecution as a criminal organization and with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis ended the trial with the conviction of independent justice. Of course the New Democracy, our party, had set the elections in 2019 as one of its objectives the political isolation of the form of Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u35	We continue with the fifth under the number 16/4-10-2021 topical question of the second-round question of SYRIZA MP Ioannis - Progressive Alliance Mr.Iropis Jufis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Thousands of gaps in parallel support." Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, Madam Secretary, before I begin with the question I have asked you about the serious problems of special education and training and the shortcomings in parallel support, I cannot help talking about today's great strike mobilisation of teachers and teachers. I call for your tolerance, Mr President. It's a matter of time and time. People are watching us and waiting for answers. Minister, for the last two years you have been opening a war with teachers, with those who have been holding the public school standing, with those who have actually left helpless during the pandemic that is still going on, and with tele-education. Now you want, supposedly, to assess them, but to pave the way for sanctions and redundancies. You call them lazy, inadequate, drag them into the courts to declare the strike - abstention illegal and abusive. And when that's not enough, the MATs beat them and spray them with chemicals in their national protests. You're isolated, Minister, from the educational community. But teachers with their mobilisations and today's mass strike teach a lesson of dignity and democracy against the repression, your false evaluation, but above all against the deterioration of public education. So we tell you to retreat, don't get the situation out of the way. Any retardation you take will be in the interest of public education. And I now come to my question, on the occasion of the hundreds of letters from parents and the publications that have been released - you know them, I can also present them to you - for the thousands of gaps in parallel support. A month after the beginning of the school year the Ministry of Education has a serious problem meeting the needs of children, and even there are parents who, by reaching the limits of desperation, speak, of course, to meet these needs at private expense. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam Secretary, the complaints of parents and teachers stress - one minute, Mr President - that neither in the first or second phases of recruitment you could fill the major gaps. In fact, according to information you are pushing to fill gaps from one teacher every two to three students, violating the basic principle of the institution and questioning its effectiveness, to save resources and personnel. Gaps are recorded in the Integration Departments, since after the recruitment of permanent teachers you have not appointed a single alternate. And in special schools we have subsidization issues in basic skills without which, as you know, these schools can't function. So I ask you, and please answer me frankly, what is the coverage rate at the moment? Will you meet the needs of all students entitled to parallel support and when? What about the gaps in the integration sections and the critical specialities in special and general schools? Finally, have you ensured the appropriations so that the institution for the support of disabled or special educational needs can continue uninterruptedly? I hope, Minister, that you do not reply to us like Mr Gerapetritis in the Pensioners' Federation, 'Would you like retrospectively or should we take wells?' ‘Do you want appointments or we get Raphah?’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u37	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Just because the question is really important, I will have a bit of your tolerance in time, because I have to respond with concrete elements, which unfortunately I cannot confuse any more. I shall avoid responding to my colleague, who has consumed more than half the year in which she is entitled to make reference to other matters regardless of her question, which she herself described as important and sensitive, and I come to the point. In recent years, my colleague, the Greek public education system has supported the education of disabled people and people with special educational needs and is implementing the teaching of integration. All in this Chamber I want to believe, but in particular we in the New Democracy are extremely sensitive to the follow-up of pupils and disabilities and special educational needs, and we are doing this with the institution of parallel support and of inclusion departments in all general and special education units. The sensitivity of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is demonstrated by the four and a half thousand appointments to special education in the school year 2020-2021, the first in the course of the training process. So each year parallel support and training by teachers in special education and training, when required by the type and degree of specific educational needs, is provided to students with appropriate individual support to attend the classroom training course, to students with more serious educational needs when there is no other specific training and education framework, i.e. a special section or part of inclusion, or when parallel support is necessary on the basis of the advice of the relevant CEDASH, because of their educational needs, which are specific. Applications for parallel support shall be submitted to the school’s directorate and via the training department concerned shall be forwarded to the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs Directorate for approval and planning of execution. The time to submit applications for parallel support is fixed from the date of registration at school until October 20th of each school year, as mentioned in the relevant circular of our Ministry. For the current school year 2021-2022 the department responsible issued the following approvals to requests submitted by June 2021. At the primary education ten thousand forty-seven approvals for support from teachers in parallel support and follow-up. In the secondary two thousand tenths of approvals for support from teachers in parallel support and follow-up. Also a thousand hundred and seventy - five approvals for special assistant staff in primary and secondary school students and a thousand seventy - five approvals for support from a school nurse in primary and secondary schools. Unfortunately, as you know, Mrs Scrivener, scientifically but also practically, we cannot know in advance the annual number of diffuse development disorders as well as all the other evolutionary development disorders causing learning difficulties for students and students. Five years ago, that is, in the school year 2016-2017, children who proved to be in need of parallel support with diagnosed learning difficulties amounted to five and a half thousand. In the current school year 2021-2022, 12 thousand fifty-eight. The increase is slim, i.e. almost 125%. I would like to remind you that, unlike our own increases in approvals, the percentages of approvals of parallel support for your term of office have been extremely low. I say that for the teaching year 2015-2016 approvals to parallel support for primary and secondary education were four thousand eight hundred seven and in 2016-2017 were five thousand six hundred. For the year 2017-2018 there were six thousand six hundred ten. For 2018-2019 there were seven thousand five hundred twenty-nine, because that was an election year. For the year 2019-2020, approvals were launched at nine thousand four hundred forty-three and for 2020-2021 at eleven thousand four hundred eighty-seven. Equally low were the rates of recruitment of educational staff for the years of governance by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, since they amounted to less than half of them than the approvals of requests. For example, for 2016-2017 the recruitment of teachers for parallel support reached about two thousand six hundred forty-five, for 2017-2018, about three thousand ninety-six, while for the school year 2018-2019; for the election year, some six thousand three hundred sixty-six.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u39	You have your dentistry too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u40	I have other elements in dentistry, Mr President. I asked for your tolerance. You saw that I rarely misuse time, and I apologize. For the school year 2018-2019 we had seven thousand eight hundred sixty-eight, for the school year 2020-2021 nine thousand eight hundred seven recruitments. In this critical period, then, I think that our Ministry, the Minister, has been trying to actively raise the educational stage in special education in the past two years, and I will say the figures so that I do not get any more disturbing over time. Six thousand six hundred ninety-nine teachers were recruited at primary level in special education and training, of which five thousand sixty - seventy - seventy - six for parallel support. In secondary school, a thousand seven hundred sixteen teachers were recruited, of which nine hundred six secondary-education disciplines for parallel support. In the second phase of recruitment, a thousand sixty-two were recruited in special education and training, of which nine hundred four for the programme of parallel support, two hundred ninety-nine in special education and training, one hundred sixty-nine teachers for the programme of parallel support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u41	Mrs. Jufi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u42	Madam Minister, I would expect an answer on the very serious issue of today's strike and abstention of our teachers. I think you are having trouble doing so because you know very well that teachers' participation rates are too high, because everyone together is concerned about the way they can work from now on in public school. I ask you personally: do you think that improving the education of our children - which we all want - goes through the courts? Do you think there can be an educational reform through the Hatzidakis Strike Act or any dialogue on education with the police clubs? Teachers therefore know very well what you are going to do and what applied to this day. The government of SYRIZA had established a grid of democratic participatory processes for the collective evaluation of the educational project, focusing on the teacher and teacher association itself. Unfortunately, you abolished it. You have chosen the frontal conflict with the world of education and of course you will receive the answer. I now come to the part of the gaps that exist in special treatment and in parallel support. You repeat Mrs Kerameos' monotonous arguments, while you know that the approval of the four and a half thousand permanent recruitments was made by SYRIZA and was, indeed, the first by the establishment of the SAPA. In the past few years, your political party has been responsible and I do not think it has done anything in this direction. Nevertheless, permanent appointments are important, but there are many more needs here. Many of you have recognized them. I don't disagree with the numbers you gave. There are indeed significant gaps. At primary level, they touch the three and a half thousand, in secondary terms, and if one puts the shortages on specialist staff and school nurses together, we reach five thousand four hundred gaps, that is, in deficits of 36%. Of course you know the desperate calls of parents. You referred to comparative data. Here I remind you that in 2016 we were the ones who incorporated special education and education into the MySchool system, to know what the real needs are. Indeed, these needs are growing. You wanted to talk about the 2016 figures and not 2018-2019 and 2019-2020, which were indeed an increased demand, but which was much smaller then. Of course I have the numbers, but I don't want us staying in them. I also want to tell you that it had been for the Circular Integration Departments to submit requests to open accession sections and freeze it, but you also froze your invitation. So I say that the needs are too great. We have made an effort to establish dozens of special schools and hundreds of integration departments, and now this has been frozen and I would like a concrete answer to why. I told you that at the end we had achieved higher coverage rates in parallel support. In particular, I would like to say to you that - I do accept that development needs are increasing, because it is an epidemic, particularly the autistic spectrum disorders - a serious debate had begun on early intervention in two-year pre-school education. In fact, you have legislated it in one last law. What have you done in this direction, so that there is actually a record of the needs that exist and that we can, in a time of time, make the appropriate decisions, which will result not from an opinion, from an ETUC, but from a team of scientists who will be able to know what the real needs are? So I ask you to take immediate action. Let me know if you can answer the questions I have raised. Administer schools, integration departments and gaps in parallel support. You know that students and families are asking for it and they need it. Please make a commitment from the Ministry's immediate response to the dozens of requests from pupils and parents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u43	Look, when one of the two speakers takes the time up, you understand that the Member or the Minister is following. That's why I'm asking you to be inside the box. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u44	Thank you and I apologise. That is why I shall avoid any response to the evaluation. Here is Parliament, you can come back with a question, we can discuss it in detail. I am pleased that you did not reject the figures I mentioned, because they are absolutely revealing the lack of response in your period. Now, as far as your intentions are concerned or what you have tried to do or the two-year pre-school treatment, let's not talk about it, because you also announced it, but you still did not have time to do so. We, as I said, have done twenty thousand five hundred sixty-seven recruitments of temporary substitutes for full-time or reduced working hours for a fixed-term private service in primary and secondary general education and special education. It should be borne in mind that all recruitments of assistant teachers by industry, specialty, educational structure and level of education are carried out in accordance with approved appropriations and operational gaps declared. With regard to the appropriations for the programming of recruitment of deputies and payroll teachers in primary and secondary education under a fixed-term private law contract for the school year 2021-2022, the appropriations are from the use of resources of the co-financed Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for the recruitment of four thousand seven hundred alternates and hourly teachers, as well as of special educational and assistant staff. To meet the needs of school units, there are credits from the National Strategic Reference Framework. I will avoid other detailed references, but I would like to tell you on the basis of your question about qualified educational support from a school nurse and special assistant staff. The approvals by our Ministry's Special Education Department throughout the year from 4-10-2021 have been recruited as a total of two thousand eighteen substitutes for IT25 school nurses and IE01 special assistant staff, with a coverage rate of 79% for the first and 68% and the second. In the first phase of recruitment there were ninety-two additional gaps in the school nurses sector for recruitment, but no candidates were found. In the second phase there were thirty-five gaps for school nurses, also no candidates were found. The Deputys did not submit a request to fill the gaps in the general invitation of August. We will issue a special invitation to specific school units, addressed to all those listed in the ADP tables. In order to remove these specificities and difficulties and weaknesses in general, our Ministry, with an amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, will allow for the recruitment of temporary alternates included in the AACC rating table of the nursing industry, since the operational needs of primary and secondary school units cannot be met by stakeholders due to the exhaustion of candidates. And permanently the intention of our Ministry is the sum of the declared and confirmed by the regional directorates for training operational gaps to be covered. I am not saying any more, Mr President. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Now we will discuss the seventh with number 23/4-10-2021 appropriate question for the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company S.A. - "ENTERPRISE GREECE" has been left to its fate". Please have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u46	Minister, ENTERPRISE GREECE is indeed the innovative extroversion body responsible for attracting investment, promoting exports and promoting our country as a strategic partner abroad. After the July elections you carried it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you are supposed to implement the new extroversion model - which your Government was preparing before it became a government - and two years now it has constantly declined and I can say that it is also deceived as a public body. And I'm explaining: Firstly, it has financing problems and its approved budgets are not being implemented. It has not collapsed until now financially, and this is due to the fact that there was cash balances before 2019, when it was still part of the Ministry of Development and the fact of pandemic, in the sense that the large exhibitions and major events abroad were deferred and replaced by cheaper online. He's got a great deal of staff shortages. Forty people are all. The 10-1-2020 competition was abolished, cancelled, recruitment of staff to meet the needs of sixty-two people, because you considered that it did not serve strong and current service needs. You have made an invitation to show interest jokes and to make it even worse - to attract people from other public bodies, of which we do not know what its fate is and you have recently declared that you will be serving with private sector officials. What exactly do you think, only God and your soul know, because it is a general government body whose officials are paid, paid, from the state budget through the single payment authority. What's the result? On September 30, the exhibition took place in Dubai, Expo Dubai 2020, postponing a year, which is a leading exhibition event where there is representation of countries. Mr. Smyrlis feasted from the Greek kiosk in the exhibition, declared our country's participation in it, but this was an empty kiosk and even today, in the sense that after the announcement I made last week, you sent an official from ENTERPRISE GREECE to recruit the staff on the ground. The on-site staff have not yet been hired, the restaurant has not been opened, and despite the fact that there should be thousands of visitors there - 100 thousand is the visitability of the exhibition - the Greek stand is still in operation. But where to prevent, Minister, since ENTERPRISE GREECE deals with the competition for the recruitment of the company "EDELMAN" and through the communication of Stan Greenberg from America, in order to build the Prime Minister's communication profile. So tell us, Minister, 'ENTERPRISE GREECE' is the country's innovative body or is it the government's tool to build the Prime Minister's profile?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to answer the timely question that the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs has put before the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for the democratization of Greece and foreign trade and for the Pellas of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Theodora Jakris. First of all, let me point out that I am pleased that the issues of investment, foreign trade and economic policy and diplomacy seem to be of concern to SYRIZA and their relevant department. And I am glad that at last the Party of Officerial Response recognizes how important all these areas are for its country, economy and foreign policy. Unfortunately, however, when SYRIZA had the country's governance in its hands, it had not understood their importance and so the results we had in the field of economic diplomacy were from pitiful to nonexistent. And, of course, it raises questions and concerns that the Party of Officers has decided to deal so critically with issues relating to investment in the country's extroversion, when it is more than obvious over the past three years that Greece has been able to make Greece one of the most popular investment destinations with the clearest policy of the government and the concerted efforts made by the ministries and all the relevant bodies in Greece and abroad. As it also raises the question that the "ENTERPRISE GREECE" is the target of criticism, an organisation that has managed the New Democracy to play an important role and action, which SYRIZA has not provided it with in the absence of any investment plan and planning and has achieved a significant and effective task. I am presenting in the Minutes of the House the results of the actions of ENTERPRISE GREECE for 2020 as a response to the claims made by SYRIZA that clearly appear to be the multi-level and important work carried out in the organisation. Here are the minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Constantine Frangogiannis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, I am pleased that the submission of this question gives us the opportunity to show you, ladies and gentlemen, and also to the Greek people the great work that has been done in recent years. The recent presentation of the National Strategic Plan Extrovert is the culmination of the work done and already delivers fruit with the country as a serious investment interlocutor, as well as the investment choice of large companies and business patterns. Following good practices in the most developed countries, in February 2021 with the new organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we created a single coherent structure under the supervision of the General Secretariat of International Relations and Extroversion, a structure that incorporates all the organisational units, which have the responsibility of economic extroversion and constructively integrates the handling of bilateral and multilateral relations. Ladies and gentlemen, in the new shape of economic diplomacy, ENTERPRISE GREECE responds, on the one hand, to the needs of exporting enterprises in the post-COVID era and, on the other hand, to the country's effort to attract investment. At the same time, despite the unprecedented effects of the COVID pandemic -19 on world economic activity, exports, excluding oil, increased in 2020, while the data so far show an impressive rise in exports and investment for 2021, 24.7% for exports in the first half of 2021 and 34% for foreign investment. The new "ENTERPRISE GREECE" actions, which supported and highlighted new productive sectors, promoted new channels for strengthening extroversion such as large electronic platforms, adopted new digital tools for promoting extroversion and trained Greek exporters in the new digital communication modes in the business. At the same time, in the investment sector from September 2019 until today, ENTERPRISE GREECE approved projects of strategic investment EUR 4.8 billion, Ms.Jakris, compared with EUR 1.3 billion only in 2015-2019 against the government of SYRIZA. This brings about the substantial strengthening of ENTERPRISE GREECE to attract investment in Greece and the promotion of exports. After all, the substantial strengthening of ENTERPRISE GREECE began to take place on the first day of the current government's taking office, as the main election announcement was the attraction of investments, as well as the stimulation of exports to existing and new markets for Greek products. And that's what's going on. The actions taken so far by ENTERPRISE GREECE demonstrate this: Firstly, the adoption of a budget of 2021 in pandemic conditions with an increase of about 50% compared with the approved budgets of the previous government period. Secondly, the adoption and implementation of a new Rules of Procedure in 2020, which solves key issues of the functioning of the Agency and of the safety of workers, which were created under the SYRIZA Government. I am very pleased to report on the question of worker insurance in third countries abroad that did not exist to date. A new establishment plan tailored to the requirements of investors and exporters for modern and efficient services. ENTERPRISE GREECE was ready for distance work on the day following the announcement of Lockdown in March 2020. Digital transformation that has proceeded with the digitisation of its internal procedures, thus saving workers and more efficient and faster processing of tasks. Finally, wage enhancement of the organization's executives by around 17%, Mrs. Jack. As far as the design and staffing of the company with additional staff are concerned, I will return to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u50	Minister, what you've read to us is nice, but I think we're living in a parallel universe. First of all, the 2020 ENTERPRISE GREECE budget was approved in May 2020 and has never been disbursed in cents and the 2021 budget has been approved in May 2021 and so far no amount has been disbursed. These actions, where did you see them? How were they implemented? I told you it has not collapsed so far because you found cash balances in your fund from the previous government while this agency was still in the Ministry of Development. And because you want to deceive, I'll talk to you with numbers. In 2016, 2017 and 2018, ENTERPRISE GREECE carried out targeted events related to investment events abroad, informing investors and businesses, concrete actions related to the reception of foreign business missions, evaluation of fast track projects, which are investment projects, with the special investment law, organised stands in international exhibitions and, in particular, supported, to say it in this sense, attracting investment in the areas in which we have comparative advantages, I refer to tourism, property, rural food, medicines and health services. The results are tangible, namely, as the figures are spoken, Minister, and not the papers you have read to us. In 2018, we had an increase in foreign direct investment in our country which amounted to 3.6 billion, i.e. an increase of 12.5% compared to 2017. To tell you, too, that 2018 was the third consecutive year that we had an increase compared to 2017 which was 28.3% and 2016 which was 116% since 2015. Also, exports actually increased and are in a rally from 2015 onwards. They're on a rise rallies. We have even managed to curtail the trade deficit. Do you want me to tell you these figures today, how much is the trade deficit? Our country's trade deficit, Minister, is now 15%. This first half of the year 2021 has been widened by excessively burdening GDP. From January to June 2021 we have a primary deficit of 10.26 billion. That, Minister, is a decade's record. These achievements of your Government in terms of investments and commercial balance? But above all, Mr Minister, these elements remind me of the first quarter of Greece. This situation existed just before we entered the Memorandum. And above all, let me tell you this, this trade deficit seems to deteriorate as long as your Government opens up to international markets. In other words, we have a productive model, what he knows to make a democracy, with only imports, minimum production and reduced exports. The deficit, Minister, must be addressed immediately. And in what way can this be done? It can only be done by boosting exports. That is to say, first of all, by maintaining the existing markets and by investigating the opening-up of new markets. From there, however, it seems that your Government is probably not interested in the "ENTERPRISE GREECE", its works and days. You are not using it, as I have said before, as a mechanism, as the official national extroverter. You use it as a mechanism to be able to build the communication profile of Prime Minister and government against the amount of one million, I told you before, which Stan Greenberg took through the company "EDELMAN". That is why you are using the 'ENTERPRISE GREECE'. And, of course, I would remind you of the failed EOT campaign in 2020, where you have also used ENTERPRISE GREECE with the awesome 'State ofmind' that has been a complete failure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u52	Our God and our soul. "A parallel universe", Ms.Jakris, and "Promote the image of the Prime Minister". I am really impressed, Mrs Jackson, by your word which is based only on consistent impressions. Can we see things in this universe, Mrs. Jackie? In this universe, therefore, I would like to tell you that, from what I have mentioned so far, only in its fate has the 'ENTERPRISE GREECE' not been left. On the contrary, with methodical and well - studied moves and decisions, definitive problems and nursings of the past are solved. The company has already carried out a support plan for the organisation to be integrated into the potential of talented private sector executives through recruitment and also from the wider public sector through secondments. The selection process will be carried out with the help of known prestige advisers on global markets and will guarantee the adoption of best practices. The first stage of the process has already begun and what is more normal than starting with the world you already have within the "ENTERPRISE GREECE". It follows a hundred and seventy-nine CVs in the wider public sector that may wish to be seconded to ENTERPRISE GREECE. After the completion of the secondments, the Agency will proceed to an invitation of interest to private workers. The process will be completed in December of this year. The human potential of the organisation will be more than doubled with fifty-six new executives. Now, with regard to what you said, Mrs Jackson, why is there the 'ENTERPRISE GREECE'? To promote the internationalisation of Greek businesses and not just exports. However, in exports we have an already 30% increase in the first half of 2021 compared with 2020. And if it's your pandemic, let's see it with 2019 that's 18.8% and if you want to make the oil oils that are commodity and affect statistics again it's too high. The image of our country has also improved. It is in the first ten countries of Europe as an investment destination. Whatever research I have read in tens of thousands of media around the world Greece is far ahead of the point that was three years ago. As far as foreign investment is concerned, we are at 4.8 billion. Are you questioning this number? These are twenty-four huge investments which have brought about three and a half thousand jobs. We called about a month ago, Mrs Jackri, for the first time in our country, the Prime Minister, all foreign ambassadors from all the countries of the world in Greece, all our diplomats from all over the world online, even our Minister of Foreign Affairs from New York who was at the United Nations General Assembly and who was connected via the Internet and presented the National Strategic Extroverty Plan with four hundred and fifty three actions, Mrs Jackrey, - I would be happy to give you to the Greek and English - which presents what we are doing. So what exactly do you want? Do you want us to stand up to accounting standards? What if the money went into November or December? The money that came in is 16 million, which is much more than what you had. We have better people, better people, more money, more actions. We have an increase in exports, an increase in foreign investment, an increase of 4.8 billion from strategic investments. What else do you want? Isn't that ENTERPRISE GREECE? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. We continue with our second question with number 11/4-10-2021 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The immediate need to strengthen the EKAV Corfu". Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will not be impressed - and thank you for coming to answer me - because the fact that I will describe is impressive in itself. That is why I have asked my parliamentary group to set this topical question as soon as possible. We are talking about 15 September, it has not been completed a month since the loss of a man, a well-known trade unionist in Corfu, because of the fact - I ask a question there - that the EMCDDA ambulance for a distance of a thousand metres, from its seat to the event, took thirty-five minutes, say some, or forty-five minutes, that others say. The coroner's report confirms that if the ambulance and rescuer had come back, perhaps the life of this new man could have been saved. That's what I wanted to say. Secondly, several times the Members of Corfu ask questions, letters and so on. We pointed out the need to strengthen Corfu's EMCDDA, which with a capacity of six ambulances, three of which are permanently for repair in Yannina, so with these three ambulances it must cover a huge area with permanent residents of over 20 thousand, where during the tourist season there are three hundred and thirty-three thousand. And everyone knows that every ambulance serves a maximum of twenty-five thousand people. So this is the situation that I could describe for hours. And take note of something else, Minister. Since 2018, the former district manager has committed 750,000 euros to buying ambulances. The invitation was made in July 1919 and despite the protests of all the bodies of Corfu, the MPs with questions that I mentioned earlier, EKAB was not appreciated by your Ministry, which I have sent a letter, it was not aspired to initiate a procedure to buy ambulances with EUR 750,000 committed money. Is Corfu's public opinion, which is completely alarmed in many cases, and is it also terrified, cannot have a policy, a bureaucratic movement to strengthen Corfu's EKAV with equipment? If there was a motorcycle with a rescuer upstairs and a defibrillator could have been saved. The next day another foreigner died in northern Corfu, because the EKAVites have asked to build a station in northern Corfu, because he went after an hour and had already lost his life. What is the picture of the tourist Corfu? So don’t keep saying that we ask these questions for the sake of impression. This is Corfu's big problem and I want answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u56	Mr Colleague, I would obviously never think you would ask such a question for the sake of impression. You see that as soon as you've submitted it, without delay I wanted to come and answer, because I, too, have read the articles, I have seen your statements and I have been in touch with our own local parliamentarian, and I have also been in touch with the EAW. I'll tell you in particular how the situation is, which you know, but I have to answer the National Representation so that it becomes known, as well as what we intend to do. First of all at the moment, as you said, in the area of the EKAV Corfu, there are six vehicles and a rescue staff for for forty-one of them, but from forty-thirty-one of them are on duty, because there are four people suspended because they have not been vaccinated and six others who are either in health problems and are on sick leave or moved to other sectors. Nevertheless, the EKRD and in contact with its President over the last two to three shifts in the morning, and two at night, we have three to four shifts in the morning and two shifts in the evening. At the same time, you know that - and I will return to my dentext - that there is the design to establish the area of northern and southern Corfu to strengthen the operational force. For the particular event you are referring to, and obviously I also express the condolences of the state to the family, the information I have from the EKRD is that they attempted four ambulances that day. All four ambulances were on other occasions. They've just been released immediately went to this particular event. The time they arrived was the thirty minutes that the operation took place with that man. They served four ambulances, and the four were in other events called. Therefore, the EAW on the basis of its capabilities reached the shortest time it could have been possible since there were other events in which they were attempting to do so. In my dentistry I will come back to tell you after the incident and in communication that we have come with the President of the EMCDDA what extra can be done and I will answer the questions to which you are referring both to ambulances and staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u57	Here, Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, if it were six ambulances, as far as the capacity of the EKP was concerned, and it was not in Yannina, then surely there would be an ambulance going to save this man, as we should have anticipated there would have been a mobile workshop, a motorcycle when the road network of the city was loaded up to help this man, like others. It's infinite. I will present to you, Minister, a multitude of protests through the media of various operators in Corfu about this unacceptable situation. It was three ambulances, in any case accepting that they were four ambulances. Why so long - you haven't answered me - the administration of the EKA has not taken the 750,000 to buy an ambulance? Why have the Corfiots not placed defibrillators on several parts of Corfu, resulting in their dolphin over the last time buying defibrillators? These questions, who's going to answer them to me? So when such an important question is well-founded and not for the sake of impression, I filed a complaint asking why did the ambulance not go there and whether there is a causal link, a causal link between the failure to provide assistance and the death of that man? Why didn't they go to the man who suffered a heart attack, the tourist in northern Corfu? Why didn't he take Foxu to a short distance? We are talking about a distance of a thousand metres. You heard - you heard, i.e. walking could have gone a rescuer. I am not saying that death has arisen because of this omission of death. This is to be found scientifically and in any case in the context of a pre-examination. But tell me, as an organized state, what do we answer? Your answers are not convincing, Mr. Plearis. It's not convincing. There are responsibilities, which have been created by omission. Such inertia from the EKT? And let me tell you something else, let me tell you, if you will answer, the first signature to an amendment you put it the next day you were appointed as Minister. Let me tell you among other things what he says, what does he define? It has become the law of the state and says that health regions can contribute with clinics and ask for a rescue project. A few days ahead of Corfu’s clinics and other contractors bought ambulances. This has been done throughout Greece. Tell me, is there a connection, yes or no? Do you intend to privatise the EKAB? Let me ask you something else. Is it possible for an ambulance who has a problem with its brakes and wants a change in his thighs to leave an island of three hundred thousand and upwards and go to the Yanna to be repaired? Have you understood that? And you're answering me? Two months, three ambulances are in Iannina to be repaired. Anyone who wants to go out publicly and tell the prosecutor why they're going there and why didn't they come, who didn't repair them? They wanted tacks. And I'm sorry to yell, but what about a man dying? Can't we buy a 15,000-euro machine with a rescuer to get in the streets of Corfu? And we're not ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u60	I will answer the questions as you have raised them. You see, Mr Colleague, that I did not tell you that you have made any stunning action, even as far as the complaint is concerned. You have a right to do it. It will, of course, be judged there, because the complaints are now addressed and impersonated to natural persons, whether they have been inactivity or have been exactly as I describe them to you, that is, all the ambulances were in another event. Half an hour has arrived again. You are linking the distance to where the ambulances were, you are right to do it, but on the other hand, when the ambulances are in other events, it is obviously not where the NSA is from. Half an hour was the time it took to go in. From that point on, I'm not going to enter the reporter's conversation. I'm coming to the question. First of all, what are we going to do, answer the policy that you said. We have already put the suspension measure in place. We have already made it possible for the Ministry to contribute to a number of issues either when it comes to diagnostic examinations, whether they concern personnel or privately-provided patients with such companies, in order to be able to function precisely, Mr Members, because with the suspensions there may be some malfunctions. I don't understand why you consider that negative. For three months the contract will be extended for another three months. Many times from this, the Step forward has told you not to connect this amendment with action taken by the government, as the government has clearly said that it is in favour of public-private partnerships where these will be needed. We do not need to bring an amendment that you present to SYRIZA that it has come. We will bring the PPPs, which we believe in, and in our programme we have them, we will bring them, we will vote, we will discuss them. But what you're saying is that it's about covering the malfunctions, and instead you should support it. Because if you are interested in covering, the possibility of covering anything from a private ambulance what is bothering you? The cover again is what you're interested in. So let's go see what happens in Corfu, to which you're referring. First of all, as you know best from me, because you have dealt with this issue, like the Prime Minister of New Democracy, there is the design to establish the north and south of Corfu and, indeed, in southern Corfu, the sector of Lefkimi operates from 12-2021. At the same time, the EMCDDA has asked us to become permanent appointments of twenty people, rescuers and crews to Corfu. I cannot tell you whether it will be the exact number, because we receive requests from all over Greece, but the EAW has requested the same people and directly, that is, the next few days or weeks that we will know what the number will be for Corfu. With regard to what you said, which I have asked for from the first day and for which we have been in contact, at the end of October there will be the possibility that you will be able to move to Corfu from another part of the healthcare district of a motor-vehicle and defibrillator, in order to support this period of time. What you are saying, the possibility of transferring, I tell you from now on in answer to your question that it will be the end of the month, as I have been assured by the EAW. In other words, at the end of October, at the latest, there will be a machine with a rescuer to assist. From there on, I answered the wider political issue. On the subject of the complaint, it is your right, as is the case with everyone. The information I have is that with the possibilities of EKAV on this island, Corfu, your homeland, that is, at the time the vehicles were on duty, so you understand that if everything is on duty, no one can at all. All the vehicles that were in service at that time, so there was no inertia and in any case the time was thirty minutes. I cannot know whether this time under the Treaties - as you quite rightly said, this will be judged scientifically - is too much or too little. But there was no inertia, that there was something and he didn't go to rescue. As soon as the opportunity was given, it went right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u61	We continue with the third with number 7/4-10-2021 topical question of the second parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "At the same time, we address the problems of the Ikaria Hospital and the other health structures of the PK. Ikaria-Fortress." Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u62	Minister, we are once again coming back to the issues of the state of Ikaria Hospital and the other structures of primary health care that are called upon to cover the population of Ikaria, Forens and Thymana, which is truly tragic. After all, since the implementation of the Ministerial Decision on the disposal of health, the final blow to the otherwise problematic operation of the health structures of the islands was literally granted by the suspension of twenty-three health workers who have not been vaccinated for several reasons. You understand that while structures are long-established they are at least criminalised with such ease of being made available necessary for the operation of hospitals and healthcare facilities. The Ikaria Hospital is now unable to deal with the majority of the incidents, so that it is daily. It was typical of the incidents that took place last 20 days, where the surgery and pathological clinic could not work yet for routine tests, resulting in the withdrawal of parental leave to return a surgeon and return for just a few days the seconded to another island pathologist. But you understand that these are temporary measures that do not solve the problem. And all of this is not overthrowing the overall picture, which is really revealing, if not disappointing and dangerous, when in a number of specialties it is permanent that there is only one doctor, when in a number of specialties there is no doctor, pneumonologist, ophthalmologist, neurologist, etc. Also, although the hospital has a modern CT scanner, it has not yet been appointed a radiologist. Of course, the Artificial Neafro Unit, which, after many years, has finally been created, is still out of service. In view of the fact that a large number of workers are also contractors who end their contracts by the end of the year, you can understand that the problems will arise. That is why we are calling on you before the conditions for Ikaria become more dangerous, but much more so for the Forens, which unfortunately are in a much worse state, to take all the necessary measures to strengthen the structures of health that are still understaffed. So we ask you what you intend to do to ensure safe operation in the daily newspaper of the Ikaria Hospital. We are also asking you to return the suspended workers, to make all the necessary recruitments of permanent staff of all full-time and full-time qualifications and, of course, to increase the state financing of the hospital so that its logistical needs can be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, from the second HR I have in relation to the Ikaria Hospital - I would like to tell you the data relating to your question - the workers who are suspended from the HR data are eleven and not twenty-three. The surgical clinic is working properly. The incident you mentioned with the documents we investigated. There is no lasting complaint about a specific incident that you refer to in your question. As to the existence of a cardiologist, as you say, he was appointed Director of Cardiology on 15-4-2021 and therefore now serves two cardiologists. Gynaecologists are serving two after the transfer of Director of Maiatic - Gynecology from the General Hospital of Kalamata. The skills that are not available, the neurologist and the psychiatrist, are covered by Samos, Samos Hospital and Samos Psychiatric Health Center, where telemedicine is dated, but there are regular attendances of these doctors in Ikaria. From there on, a position of director has been approved for the position of radiology, while with regard to nephrology, for the problems you mentioned, he has been appointed Nephrology Director on 23-11-2020 with this document. Also, there are three and two high flow respirators. Also, because there was a report, Ikaria Hospital was not a CIVID -19 reference hospital. From there on, in general matters related to the financing of this hospital, a total of EUR 1.123.277 for the Ikaria Hospital in 2021. Overall, for hospitals, the state budget provides for 872,600,000 euros. That's the money for disposal. The General Hospital of Ikaria will be allocated EUR 431,000 to cover the money. 1.123.277 is the budget approved. The money is the money that's been made available, 431,000. To date, a total of 636.20,000 euros have been allocated to hospitals. At the Ikaria Hospital of EUR 323,250, the last dose is expected to be given to reach the amount I mentioned to you, as well as to have, as soon as approved by the KESYPE, the overrun of 8% for the hospitals. In my dentistry, I shall return to how the positions have been covered, Mr President, and what further positions are planned to cover for the even more orderly operation of the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u65	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u66	Minister, as I told you in my initial position, the operation of the surgical clinic was achieved by the withdrawal of a surgeon's parental leave. It is well known that the few in hospitals are being exhausted and the necessary leave is lacking for their rest and for the rest and, indeed, for such a sensitive issue relating to parental leave. Also, is it true or is the return of a pathologist seconded to another island, and for how long will that be? Because what I know about Ikaria Hospital is that it concerns a few days, not more than a month. Does this staff say that they are on parole - do I not have this information, perhaps do other health structures and not just hospitals - do they have more than a hospital that actually operates in huge gaps and shortcomings in the previous period? And if the picture is different, why are the basic needs constantly being covered with aerospace, even with the solution to transfer doctors from one island to another? These options are that create even greater problems for doctors to choose to be appointed to the health structures of the islands, when they know that their appointment there will also mean moving them from island to island as required. These, of course, are not new data that have been created now because of pandemic conditions nor because of suspensions. It was a situation where there were both movements and the patching of gaps with such movements, much more the temporary employment of workers with subsidiary staff and not permanently. So, how many of these posts you announced relate to permanent staff, how many posts remain empty on the basis of the needs of health structures and hospitals, as well as health centres and regional hospitals in Rahes and Evius? There are these specialities that we refer to in the question, so that I do not repeat them. Of course all this when a year ago your predecessor at the Ministry of Health, with a statement to Samos, talked about the islands that are very important to the country and how the remote islands should be supported. But the reality that islanders experience is really quite different. As I do not know - I have heard your previous position - if you consider the choice of PPPs to be a solution, I should like to inform you that the Santorini experiment has really transformed medicine into aero-medical medicine, because there is not even a sample for essential medical needs and essential material in hospitals, so that medical is provided only on order and with very accurate payment. In view of the fact that, Minister, public health needs are and remain increased in the conditions of the pandemic - do not be lured from the recognised, confessed, level of well-being of the Ikari people - they are also ill - in order for them to continue to be long-term, they really need to be staffed, to strengthen public health units and not to take advantage of the necessary vaccination as a tool for the labour relations of workers in health structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u68	Ms Konnakas, with reference to staffing, certainly in Ikaria, as in many other islands, there is a problem with the fact that positions are being proclaimed and positions are not necessarily covered because doctors - and it is reasonable, perhaps, - choose areas that are closest to their homes. That is why the Deputy Minister, Mrs Gaga, is working on a plan to encourage even more of what is being given, so that the notices made on these positions do not come out unfertile. But especially for Ikaria, I would like to tell you - you will know, but the National Representation will also be informed on the basis of your question - that the notice of AAC 2K/2019 provided for the possibility of covering two staff posts in different sectors and the procedures and recruitments have been successfully completed. Similarly, there are five permanent posts in the notice 6K/2020 - we are always talking about permanent posts in this case - and the procedure is now under control of the AACC. There are two more notices on the whole territory of nine hundred and ten posts of different branches and specialties, four thousand permanent staff of nurses, and five hundred and thirty-four posts for permanent posts of doctors on the way. One for doctors has moved forward and the other two will be launched in the next few months, while assessing the fact that special conditions must exist for people who worked throughout the pandemic. With regard to ancillary staff, we are informed by the 2nd Ministry of Health that a position of TSE and three posts for ICUs - nursing assistants have already been adopted by decision. Therefore, at the moment, an effort is being made to cover the Ikaria Hospital with permanent staff and subsidiary staff so that it can continue to operate. All the efforts that are being made, which you have also referred to, show that we have also tried to solve the problems which exist and have probably worsened since the eleven cases we call inhibition. However, it was a central position that anyone who has not been vaccinated has made his own choice and cannot provide these services. However, we have also tried to cover these positions by internal moves. Similarly, because you are also referring at primary level to a number of health centers, there is an update of what personnel are serving in each area. From there on, because you are again coming to say about PPPs, as my colleague said before, yes, we have a different understanding here. I am not referring specifically to Ikaria because we do not know where the PPPs will work. But I answer you directly: if we could also solve issues of the Ikaria Hospital with great pleasure, we would solve them. We really believe that wherever there are gaps we should cover these gaps with the permanent recruitment we do, which is most of the other time we have done in the health sector. The positions taken together relate to thousands of posts and doctors and nurses and other staff. But, yes, we are not dogmatic, if we believe that one can come and solve issues, and he is from the private sector, of course, and we will proceed to any partnerships they need. It is not specifically about Ikaria, but, if there were - and I wish there was - such a proposal, and someone was interested in taking part in order to make it a partnership in Ikaria, we would definitely adopt such a position if it were for the benefit of the patient who would receive services.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister. Ms. Gaga makes a bill, but if you do not have a co-operation with the municipalities that can help - I was talking to Santorini, Mykonos - there are doctors and teachers and they can find a home to sleep with their children, very difficult will be able to take a place. So, basically, this bill must have incentives to give, how much more rich islands they can build houses for teachers and doctors. We continue with the eighth question under number 24/4-10-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Iropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Extension of movements of medical personnel from health centres to hospitals". Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, primary health care has been severely affected for a long time, because many doctors' movements from health centres are being made to hospitals to meet the needs of the pandemic. And if this at the initial stage could be understood, it has been over eleven months since then and has been a little staffed in several primary health units, especially in the Law of Ioannina, which is a mountainous and difficult prefecture to cope with in very difficult and exhaustive conditions. I asked about this in July 2021 precisely because there was a letter from the 6th RC, which said that the movements of medical staff were protracted, again in its thinking of meeting the needs of the pandemic. Unfortunately, this question has not been answered and I am coming back. After meeting with the representatives of the Association of General Doctors of the ESY Ioannina, as well as local visits to health centres, I was informed that their afternoon work was not compensated for in the vaccination centres of health centres, except Saturdays and holidays. Again, the 6th RCF is reintroducing a new document with an exceptional urgency which allows it to remain in hospitals until 31-12-2021. Look, Minister, primary health care is something that is very important, because it can take care of the citizens' medical situation as a whole, but also play a crucial role in the vaccination of the elderly and people with serious motor problems, where you know very well that there is a very high risk of morbidity and death. Therefore, the movement of doctors from health centres is crucial in tackling this very serious issue, which should be part of the resumption of the new vaccination period, because they only know the specificities of each patient, they have more chance of being persuaded and systematically cared for. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So I ask you if you intend to take action so that doctors of health centres return to their organic positions. I also want to ask you what you are going to do to strengthen health centres. Needs are growing. It's autumn, it's winter and we know that this whole period is accompanied by increased morbidity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u72	One last for the vaccinations. What are you going to do, Minister, for people isolated in villages with serious motor problems, to which doctors of health centres can effectively help and, of course, for the serious issues of compensation for doctors who offer these services?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u74	Mrs Jufi, it really is important to ask you, and I must say that when I read it, I first asked for full information on the last point you raised, namely by paying the newspapers to people who have worked, because I am sure anyone who works should also take the money that they represent. I shall therefore start by saying this: Since the information I received and after certain legislative issues that were dealt with by Law No 449/98/2021 concerning participation in the vaccination programme, we are now ready in October - the information I had from the service is specific - the payment will be made, which will cover retrospectively between January and August. So with regard to what you have put to your question, and quite rightly you put it, I have been informed by the services that after all the procedures needed to be regulated, we are now ready to pay and cover this issue. We are now coming - because your question is perhaps a very interesting broader debate - on the primary level and the problems it faces. You are aware - and you are saying this in your question - that, in fact, during the treatment of the pandemic and because the whole framework worked as a health region, automatically and primary, to the extent that conditions of COVID should be met, in addition to the very important work done by the primary school in terms of vaccination centres and covered a large gap, it should also be made available to the wider ERAS, especially to hospitals that had to deal with cases of COVID. So there were personnel movements mainly of general medical expertise. The choice - as I am informed by the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs to answer your question - has been made mainly by health centres with a greater number of doctors, so that there is as little pressure as possible and as smooth a function in health centres. Movements have continued over this period, and now it has been pointed out by the 6th HR, that there is an assessment and hierarchy for this world to return to its organic positions. However, this will still be done with an absolute assessment of the pandemic conditions and the needs of the system as a whole. But there is the philosophy that they are slowly able to return so that they can find themselves in their organic positions. As far as the wider debate on the notices is concerned, and on what the President has raised, I should like to answer this: yes, there are several empty organic positions. Indeed, Mr President, we are in agreement with local government too. There are parts of local government - you know that better, as do SYRIZA's colleague dealing with the subject, much more - there are municipalities and regions that really contribute very much to the part of the dwelling. What we want is in agreement, apart from residence, there should also be additional incentives. You have already seen that we have also brought a bill on anesthetics, where there is a great deal of trouble, in order to be able to do on-calls - whether private anesthetics or public authorities - in other parts, by taking compensation. However, on the subject to which my colleague refers - and I will come to my dentistry - on vaccinations and what can be done with the remote areas and the plan that we have, in fact, also the part of the newspaper section on payments we believe is being solved in October and beyond, the smooth operation will gradually be restored, as required, people will have to return, because primary school is very important and must also work in the pandemic era.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u75	Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u76	Minister, thank you for the positive news of at least the compensation of people who at this particular stage have given themselves the best and it is very critical. Already there is a very serious delay. I have to say some things, though, more. I think that this story, that is to say its continuation to people coming from primary health care to meet the serious needs of hospitals, is about the fact that your Government has seriously delayed existing permanent recruitments. And before, in your reply to the honourable Member, you said that they would start when we were two years at the pandemic and when there were those funds and you should have done so already. And I say this because there are very specific examples. I don't think you have any good briefings. But you are not responsible. There are colleagues seconded by health centres, without the necessary staff, over eleven months ago, resulting in regional hospitals covering groups of villages - I can tell you, for example, the Upper Ravenna Regional Medicine - that they are not covered all this time. And I have received many phone calls from residents in these areas, who have lost their doctor for the essential and necessary services. In the second part I can tell you that we had urged you as SYRIZA very early - since last December - to use health centres to become the part of the vaccination. Here I would like to tell you that three of the six health centres in the county have been very late in the vaccination programme. But, as I said before, and when they came in, we hadn't taken care of what was going to happen to cover their doctors' allowances. On the other hand, you referred to what you say, your favorite PPPs. They cannot solve them in too many areas of our country. Let me remind you here, Minister, that you invited individuals to meet on-call needs in early 2021 and then you invited them in July to carry out home vaccinations. In fact, you had given them the possibility of the Johnson vaccine. Obviously, this cannot be done in our area. Colleagues have tried heroicly - because they did not have a single vaccine - in difficult areas to respond. And, as you know, the Pfizer vaccine was not easy to carry and it has two doses. And in their question about the possibility of using the ambulances at the health centre for transporting occupied patients to the vaccination centre and returning them home, the answer was negative. I want a concrete answer because I have the specific documents that say that the EMCDDA ambulances cannot be used to do this work. What does that mean? Destroyed patients - those in these villages isolated - are invasive. And you know very well that this proportion of patients is fuelling invasions and deaths, in which, unfortunately, we are champions from the end, third or fourth to mortality at European level. I think you should change your direction in this direction. Yesterday - I do not know whether the question was raised - a directive was made by the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities to respond until Monday, in cooperation with the mayors of the regions, to see what needs the individual communities have for vaccination centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President. Allow me, because it's critical. I think that's the direction you need to move. Patients with chronic health problems have been neglected, they have been deregulation by the absence of doctors, and that increases - and you know that, Minister - mortality from other causes. It's not just our phenomenon. It's a very serious thing. The doctors of primary health care must return to their mission. Only they can offer these services in difficult, difficult and remote areas, as is the case in the county where I am elected a Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u80	Madam President, first of all - what you say is logical - the doctors must find themselves where their organic position is. In pandemic conditions, the changes you mentioned have been made. The briefing I have is that it was done in the smoothest way that the primary school could work. In any case, especially for primary school, it is a whole debate and I think that in the next few months we will also be able to bring in a comprehensive bill that will strengthen existing structures, but will also give the whole lead for the role it must play. Because at the moment much of the primary - you know that much better - it is actually covered by the national health system, although it is not its mission, so there must also be strengthening the existing structures and synergies that must be done in order to operate the primary one. It's a lot of talk with the family doctor, and whether there's any possibility of getting into the system without having his own doctor who's sending him. There's gonna be an entire conversation. I think in the next few months we will have the primary school bill in combination with the reform we want to do at the EEA and we will discuss it. But now we are going to ask the questions you say about vaccinations. There has also been the possibility for the regions of vaccination at home. Most of the population has now been vaccinated with the possibilities available to vaccination centres. You have seen that there is a targeting, which has been a strategy since the beginning, on the one hand, to allow private doctors to be vaccinated, who can to a large extent cover the audience you are saying, and, on the other, to children when we are dealing with categories of children. At the same time, the DPR's mobile units have seen that especially in areas where we have low vaccination coverage are already moving in order to cover and be able to be in remote areas to have vaccination. Already in the four lower regions are currently the mobile units of the DSO. We believe that there should certainly be a possibility for people who are in remote areas. The effort is, at the same time, to convince people who do not want to be vaccinated but also to have access to people who cannot come to either health centres or to vaccination centres that operate. So we think that in this way, to a large extent, we will resolve the problem. You are right to say that the over sixty people who are a sensitive audience who can produce too many nursing and special hospitalizations in ICU have 80% vaccinated world but remain 20%. In fact, over eighty are less. That's impressive that while in total it's 80% above eighty it's - if I'm not mistaken - with a reservation of around 76% with 77%. We want this world to be persuaded, but also to be able to be persuaded by those who cannot. For this reason, both home-to-house vaccination and mobile units have also been available and all private doctors who want to contribute to the vaccination programme have also been able to do so. That's where I answered you. And we said about the on-calls how they will be covered and what any malfunctions have now been addressed. And on the major subject you raise, yes, depending on the course of the pandemic, the doctors of their primary organic positions will now be transported. But you realise that in crisis conditions the whole region is a health region without essentially separation of direct primary and secondary, as there was a basic enemy of the coronary. We believe that this winter will also have the conditions of pressure, but with a basic weapon that has 70% of adults and 60% of the general population being vaccinated. We call on the citizens - as you personally have done - to be vaccinated, because at the moment in mathematically no one needs to be a doctor to understand it and I conclude, Mr President - areas that have greater vaccinated coverage are producing fewer cases and, above all, fewer nursings and heavy nursings as opposed to those that are in low vaccination coverage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. We continue with the fifth under number 27/4-10-2021 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Department of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Anachronistic exclusion of the Scientific Body for Vlach Culture from the Ministry of Culture". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, we have something unprecedented about modern data, get back funding from a scientific body for dealing with the Vlachs. A deposit was made to finance logging of Vlach language monuments. In fact, the president of the body that presents for the funding is also the director of the Folklore Museum in Thessaloniki. It is true that it has been targeted by the Golden Dawn for its action on the historical heritage of the Vlach language. And you give him funding with praise that the proposal he has put forward in a systematic way contributes to the promotion of the pluralistic nature of Greece's intangible cultural heritage through the promotion of oral traditions of the Greek Vlachs, highlights a participatory concept in the design and implementation of actions to preserve the intangible cultural heritage and is supported by a group of experts. And suddenly two months after that, you do the right repetition and you get it all back. Mr. Nitsiakos himself in the "The Authors' Newspaper" denounces that this is all due to the involvement of the country's secret services and patriotic atrocities. He's obviously talking about those Golden Dawn circles that had targeted him. Is it possible to have a Vlach issue in Greece in 2021? Is it possible to function on such terms? And anyway, explain how after so many praises you got the funding back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, in January of this year, the Ministry of Culture and Sport published a call for expressions of interest in the grant and aegis of actions for the study, preservation and promotion of intangible cultural heritage. The invitation was addressed to legal persons of private or public law with public interest or cultural purposes with the exception of legal persons supervised and subsidised by the Ministry of Culture systematically. In order for the proposal of the above legal persons to be assessed, it is necessary that the latter be registered in the Ministry of Culture and that they submit their proposals to the portal of cultural institutions. The registration of a body - I would point out - is in no way a recognition of any capacity or action of a body. It merely enables the institution to apply for a grant to the Ministry. Therefore, registration in the register shall not constitute recognition or acceptance of the purposes served by the entity concerned. That's all. Now, the "Scientific Society of Study of Vlach Culture" is a union with the aim of researching and studying all forms of Vlach culture with emphasis on the language and geographical varieties and is registered in the Ministry's register. Therefore, it could typically be subsidised. But I think it is important to inform you that there have been many clubs, unions and Vlach fraternities in Greece for many decades. A significant number of such collections were formed by the Panhellenic Federation of Cultural Associations of Vlachs, which currently has numerous members of associations from all over Greece, with a growing trend. All these clubs, like the federation, have a lot of activities to do. The Panhellenic Federation of Vlach Associations representing almost all the Vlach clubs in Greece as a cultural entity is of the opinion that Vlach is the whole of the local dialects of an unconsolidated and non-consolidated oral language and that there is no common form accepted by all the groups of Vlach speakers in both Greece and the surrounding Balkan countries. In this context, the scientific company's proposal to create a digital monumental database of the Greek Vlach speech is one aspect of the subject. However, in view of the fact that this digitisation aims to be, as the representatives of the scientific company themselves say, the first systematic recording of the intangible cultural heritage of the Vlachs and thus constitutes a reference point both scientifically and educationally, it is appropriate that it should be a product of extensive representation of the Vlachs through joint acceptance procedures, committees and methods and that it should be a scientific self-determination of the whole of the Greek Vlachs. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Approximation of the issue by a section alone and with a State grant involves the risk of intensification among most associations, questioning scientific methods and conclusions and more general polarization. The non-subsidisation of the proposal was the assessment of the insufficient representativeness of the "Scientific Society of Study of Vlach Culture" in relation to the multitude number of Vlach clubs and unions which was considered necessary for an issue of such importance and sensitivity. The fact that the study company was not in the end subsidised does not seem to suggest that the scientific adequacy of those involved in the company is questioned. However, for the first time the systematic recording of the intangible cultural heritage of the Vlachs must be legalised through their participation in and broad representation. The company's proposal did not guarantee the representation of the multitude of Vlach clubs, and in no case does the entire Vlachs have anything to do with the Golden Dawn. Be a little careful when using terminology and correlations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I would say that I am shocked, but we have discussed this Parliament many times, so I am not shocked. You want to tell us that you do not want to induce tensions between the Vlachs and that you took the funding back two months after you gave it, why was the shape of the "Scientific Society of Study of Vlach Culture" not sufficiently representative and did not express all the Vlachs? I would first repeat the reasoning of the approval: "It helps systematically to highlight the pluralistic nature of Greece's intangible cultural heritage through the promotion of the oral traditions of the Greek Vlachs. Secondly, it shows a participatory perception of the design and implementation of actions - participatory perception, but exclusion you complain of - 'to safeguard intangible cultural heritage. Thirdly, it is supported by a group of specialist scientists." Tell me which body officially objected to you and you needed to overthrow that thinking? So, what's your thinking? For the sake of the Vlachs, will the recording of intangible cultural heritage be rejected? Is it or isn't Mr. Nitsiacos targeted from Golden Dawn? Is it true or is it not that his complaints that they actually intervened with the Ministry and forced you to change that funding? Place on this. Speaks clearly the director of the Folklore Museum of Northern Greece in Thessaloniki that secret services, which have been pressed or accustomed to by nationalist elements, are the ones that led your Ministry to get this case back. You tell us, really, what it was that did to you after you rewarded this proposal to get it back. You tell us, indeed, which vector of the Vlachs objected to you. Because that is what you are describing, that there was a dispute between the different organizations of the Greek Vlachs and you, what to do, take the proposal back and do nothing wrong. Tell us the truth at last, Minister, why you had withdrawn this proposal after you had given it the credit, you said it was an excellent proposal and two months after you took it back. What for? This is why the pressures from the extreme right against an alleged danger of creating a Vlach language and danger, as various ghosts imagine, which promote hatred and intolerance in Greek society? Do you contribute to this hatred and intolerance, Minister? That is the question today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u87	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let's get a couple of things straight, Mr. Congressman. No funding was given to get it back. A financing was approved by an advisory body. So there was no money that was for disbursement and stopped disbursement. It's two different things in administrative practice, first. Secondly, let us not confuse the status of any chairman of a scientific company, a association of private law with the President of an official state body. Maybe the face is the same. This does not mean that things are confusing among themselves and I mean the Folklore and Nationalistic Museum of Macedonia Thrace. It is two distinct, completely irrelevant things if there is a common president. So let's go down. The Vlachos are one of the population groups that shaped the modern Greek consciousness, maintaining their own special features and contributing substantially to the formation of the modern Greek state as an integral part of the Greek society. According to experts in science, it is not necessary for everyone to agree with everything. But here we have special scholars - obviously on a scientific level - that the Vlach idiom is a secondary neo-Latin oral idiom used exclusively in a narrow, family, friendly, professional environment, while the main language of the Vlachs, used in education, administration, worship, has always been Greek. This particularity of the Vlach idiom, which is purely oral, is the cause of the acronym of the Vlach language and its non-existence in an independent language, not even in a dialect. Any approach to how rather the creation of a digital database of monuments of the Greek Vlach speech by a single club that does not represent the totality of the associations and associations of the Greek Vlachs poses the risk of heterogeneous identification of the latter even if scientifically documented methods and techniques are applied. The acceptance of the proposal of the scientific company would become a operative cause for tensions between the totality of the unions of the Greek Vlachs. In support of what I tell you about the Minutes of the House, the letter sent to me by the Panhellenic Federation of Cultural Associations of Vlachs, which represents a hundred and twenty-one club on the subject "Information on engraving the Vlach language". So we don't have to try to find ghosts about what he broke through, etc. It's very simple. There is a reaction from the Vlachs themselves and indeed from their pan-Hellenic federation, I repeat a hundred and twenty - one association. It is obvious that I do not need to analyse the undeniable fact that the Vlachs are an integral part and a major chapter in modern Greek history. By respecting the history and culture of the Vlachs, I do not want the Ministry of Culture to be a cause for the polarization of the Greek Vlachs. It's one company, one union, and it's a hundred and twenty unions on the other. The contribution of the Vlachs as a whole to the construction of the modern Greek state is crucial while their benefits dedicate Athens and therefore every day allow us to remember them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u89	I should like to ask for a favor if both the Member and the Minister can do. Mr Loverdos asked me to precede - one question is - and immediately afterwards you will continue. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u90	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u91	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u92	Continue with the second timely question of a second-round question, number 20/4-10-2021 by MP B1' North Athens Department of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled 'Small frontier islands'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask you for a second favor and thank you for this facilitation. If I can talk without a mask. I didn't have a mask and I put the one I had in the office. I can't open my mouth. If you'll excuse me, I'll get her out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u94	Take it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Minister, I have studied very much the subject on which I am addressing you today and addressing you to the Greek delegation and to the citizens who are listening to us. I'm not bringing a random question here. I have also seen, on the European Union's side, what programmes are there and I am very - very specific and expert in what I will tell you in the few minutes that I have. The problems with island Greece know them better than I do. You are also a minister from Piraeus, you have islands in your region, I do not need to add any more than you know. However, apart from the privileged islands the great and the other least privileged - this debate has been open to Parliament for years - beyond our obligations, there is also a special obligation of our own - from the Constitution, which comes - on the very small islands, and I am very specific, I am sitting in my seat and waiting to hear from you. I am referring to very small islands, which are also at the border as we call it, in relation to Turkey in Psrimo and the Arquis and in relation to Albania in Ereikosa, Mathraki and the Ottomans. I have - at least in the last cases - spoken with local government people who naturally do not have self-government on these islands, but who are subject to and have seen the enormous administrative problems they have, as well as the enormous development problems they have. I have an experience as Minister of Education, where in the very small islands of the Aegean I made sure that there were teachers and teachers and I went there on the first day to see if what my associates tell me has been done and I understand that if we do not strengthen these very small areas, we will eventually pay for it. Nobody's gonna stay there and have a problem, and the country and the people who are forced to relocate. I would like you to tell us what your policies are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u96	Minister Katsafandos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that this is an issue to which there are no conflicts between us. I think that from all the wings of Parliament it is a clear need to serve as best as possible all these locusts who are on these remote islands of the border. For us, Mr Colleague, these islands are Greece! I think that the question of the development and strengthening of all these border islands is a common understanding, so that we can find out how we will help these islands and their inhabitants. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy has tabled two laws, Law 4770/2021 and Law 4832/2021 on integrated maritime policy in the island area. The code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the island area was ratified by Law 4832. The legislation included, in addition to the formulation of the framework of island policy, management and governance and connectivity to the equivalent of transport, concerns an integrated maritime policy. There are in these two bills concrete packages of measures to promote island entrepreneurship through a specific aid and restructuring programme for the productive development model of island regions. There is the financing of actions to develop and promote innovative entrepreneurship in the marine economy and in particular in the blue economy by adopting a specific programme including actions, studies and actions to strengthen institutionally the institutions of the maritime economy. Here I would like to open a parenthesis, because the question you have normally asked us should have come to other ministries, so that the government can answer why it has health, education, public administration, the Ministry of Digital Governance, basically the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy - what we are doing is to create - and that is what has been introduced as a new culture into the Ministry of Shipping - financial instruments so that we can support island businesses and provide them with funds through leverage in European Union programmes. However, our main task is to lay the foundations for maritime connections. So, with regard to the islands' ferry connections, I would like to tell you that we have managed for the first time, taking European funding, to raise a sum of more than EUR 540,000,000 for the next four years and through this procedure, when we have guaranteed all this money, to be able to make competitions where the ships that will be involved are even more of a quality. Setting up A-type tenders so that the ships from which they were used so far are much younger. We have therefore managed, Mr President, to have a fairly satisfactory maritime interconnection of all the islands with mainland Greece even during the krone that you know the particularities and limitations that existed. Obviously, and we believe there will be a splendid field of glory and through the Recovery Fund. There are several actions that we are planning and are in the implementation phase so that we can give all these locusts a chance. The most important thing, however, is to be able to reverse the flow, because you know that the biggest problem is demographic in these regions. To be able with the infrastructure that will be created to convince our fellow citizens to go and settle there, so that they can develop any business.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u98	My colleague Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u99	It's good to close your position, because that's the goal, how we keep our fellow citizens from leaving there, and how we'll urge our fellow citizens to go. In order to do this, however, Minister, the general framework that you have adopted is not enough. Specially targeted policies are needed, and I shall mention them. Nor can I always provide medicines that will cure all sorts of disease, but I also work with a particular partner and my friend Mr Kehagioglou has informed me of the special programmes that the European Union has in this regard, and I propose that we legislate in these five cases on island communities - only in five cases - which will have their own income. In other words, they will have a self-government small self-government, compulsory JEPs with two employees and one technician and certainly no matter how many students are an educational unit and a health unit. Finally, to legislate that some small, but of great importance, projects which make these islands will provide for a special legislative facility. Don't get involved with bureaucracy. These are policies aimed at the very small atrocious island, and the reasons are human, the reasons being related to the citizens who live there, the reasons for unemployment to a very small extent, but the reasons are national. I don't think I need to argue on this. Desertification there is not harmless from a national point of view. It doesn't cost anything. I have a specific study. It doesn't cost anything at all. Whatever I suggest is free of charge. Minimal attention is required, understanding what exactly happens and separating these five small islands from all the rest. Will anyone be wrong? Is this a discriminatory attitude in favour of other islands? Oh, no. Every Greek woman, every Greek will understand the special significance. So, to close, I am not concerned with the adequacy or inappropriateness of the general legislative framework you have tabled. My colleague, Mr Biagis, is following these from the side of our party, and he is a remarkable colleague who makes his speech. I am not interfering with his work, but having identified a small one, but a crucial issue concerning my homeland, I am tabling my proposals and waiting for your comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u100	The Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Katsafandos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u101	The proposals are welcome, Mr President. I must, however, inform you of what is currently happening to these islands. What did we do? We have achieved a great deal for the current traffic season and we have succeeded first of all in adequacy of routes, because you realize that the most important thing, when we talk about an island, is its ferry connection and then all the other things come. So, what did we do about the Arquis? The Arquis are served with the Pythagorio line as Kos and return, with an obligation to reach the Arquis twice a week. On the line of Patmos as Pythagorio and return with two routes per week. On the line of Patmos as Leips and return with the execution of a route a week. On the line of Patmos as Leips and return with two routes per week and on the line of Kalymnos as Pythagoreos and return with the performance of four services per week. As to Pserimos, on the Kalymnos line as Mastichari - Kos and a return with the execution of three routes a week during the summer season and on the Kalymnos - Pserimos line and a return with the execution of three routes a week during the winter season and five routes during the summer season. As far as the complex of the Diaponding Islands is concerned, the Corfu line - Ereikosa - Mathraki - Othos through the port of Abruzzi and return by the execution of three routes per week throughout the road period and an additional one during the summer route. On the line Agios Stefanos - Ereikosa - Mathraki - Othos and return with the execution of three routes per week throughout the road period. So you understand with the data I have given you and the routes that are being carried out that there is an adequacy and it is certainly much better than any other time the maritime interconnection of these five small islands. At the same time, I would like to tell you that we are studying other models, such as that of aquariums. I have to tell you that with Law 4663/2020 the way in which water is produced was simplified in relation to the previous scheme and that it was also possible for individuals to do so. I would like to inform you in this respect that, as far as it relates to the transport link between the islands of Ereikosa, Mathraki and Ostens on the border of our country with Albania, applications for licences for the establishment of a water service have been submitted to our service, which are currently being studied for approval. Because you have put in your timely question and what we can do in connection with the taxation of all these residents, in order to be more friendly and attract more citizens, I will have to inform you that since 2011 with Law 3986, people who are free or who have commercial businesses from the trade fee on these islands, as well as being excluded from the payment of HISA. In any case, however, this is a matter which is related - and the services of the Ministry of Finance are being studied - to social justice, to sustainable development, to equal tax treatment which must exist between the citizens and the necessary budgetary objectives that the government must take. With regard to the broadband link to the small border islands, because you have also set this, the design of the Ministry of Digital Governance for the islands of Ereikosa, Mathraki, Ottomans, Pserimos and Arkis is reflected in the new UFBB programme which is toward the implementation phase and includes areas that meet the eligibility criteria in them. The competitive process of this project is under way through PPPs with a budget of EUR 800 million. Of course, there will be subsequent political initiatives in the Ministry of Digital Governance, which will be in a more general context and will be announced by the Ministry. Everything you said about the JEPs, let me inform you that two positions, one position for the IC Class Enlargement and one position for the IC Class Cover. Furthermore, the statistics kept by the competent authority do not show a particularly increased flow in terms of the submission of requests for citizens and handling through JEPs from these border islands. According to Law 3852/2010, the known "KALIKRATI", the islands of Erikosa, Mathraki and Othos are island municipal communities as well as municipal units of the Municipality of Central Corfu and Diapondian islands, in each of which is defined as a competent vice mayor. According to the Hellenic Statistical Authority, in the census in 2011 the islands of Pserimos and Arkis have been recorded as autonomous settlements, the village of Pserimos as a self-catering settlement of the Municipality of Kalamni, and the Arkias as an autonomous settlement of the Municipality of Patmos. Recognising these autonomous settlements as municipal communities, in accordance with Article 283(6) of the 2010 KALIKRATI Law, the relevant municipal councils and the issuing of a Presidential Decree by the relevant Minister of Home Affairs are required. In addition, I must inform you that for this year alone by the CFPs were allocated to mountain and island regions EUR 24.300,000 to support projects and local economies. As far as health is concerned, since 29-7-2021, a CSR has been issued on the establishment of the regional doctorate in Pserimos. Since 1-5-2020, a regional medical office has been established in the Municipalities of Dodecanese as a decentralised unit of Patmos Health Center. Since 1988, regional doctors have been set up and run in Ereikosa, Mathraki and the Ottomans. As for education, in the islands of Ereikosa and Mathraki of the Department of Primary Education of Corfu there are school units of primary school, and for the school unit in the Ottoon there is a suspension of service due to a lack of students for 2021-2022. As regards the Arkios Islands and Psrimos of the Dodecanese Primary Education Department, the school unit operates in the Arquis, and in Psrimo since the school year 2013-2014 the unit has been abolished. The Arquis operates a primary school with two students and a teacher. In Pserimos it has been a primary school in the past, but since 1997 it has been without students. As you can see, Mr Colleague, efforts are being made. Health centers and regional hospitals exist on these islands and where there are students we try to have school units so that we can serve and serve the right that each child has in education. If you ask me if it's all right, I'll say it's obviously not all right. If you ask me if there is room for us to be able to do much more things, obviously there is space and it is our obligation to do much more things, but here we are to try all together to achieve even better results.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. The fourth question will be discussed with number 28/4-10-2021 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Nicro and Stavra Evia: Aiolic in archaeological sites”. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, at the polypath Evia in the Municipality of Karystos there are already four hundred thirteen wind turbines and there are applications to increase this number much longer in the eight hundred forty-seven. We hope that we will all agree in this Chamber that it is good luck for this place to have so many archaeological sites and most important areas that, unfortunately, the unregulated installation of the winds is seriously affected. We've got three sites that'll be hurt, three hills. One already had a quarries that practically entered the winds some years ago, without surveillance from the Archaeological Service. We have the Acropolis of Irons that will suffocate again - because they are already near wind turbines - by wind turbines. Alongside the monumental gateway, the substation will enter and Mr. We have Niborio, a major archaeological site, a Roman quarry, published since the 1980s. For twenty years the Archaeological Museum of Chalkida has been excavated from columns taken from the quarry of Nikos, which have been devoured by the Archaeological Museum of Chalkida and yet has not been proclaimed with the oligopoly of the Archaeological Service. The question is: will we have something else than crimes against the archaeological sites that we have seen in the past? Will this space be declared, will there be a negative opinion on the installation of this industrial wind station in Styra and Niborio in southern Evia? Will you proceed to the necessary steps so that the hill of Niborio along with the hill of Agios Nikolaos will become a model visiting archaeological site, an archaeological park that will demonstrate the exploitation of the stone from ancient times until the middle of the last century? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u104	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you have avoided using in the oral question what you have said in the written question, but because the writings are left, you will allow me to comment that in your written statement you are asking me to give your opinion, that the Minister should give a negative opinion on the construction of this industrial wind station in the area of Nice and Styria in southern Euboea. Here, then, we must make it clear that, fortunately, no Minister - not today - thinks of anything, but of the services and councils of the Ministry of Culture and Sport as a whole. What I can tell you is that all the relevant requests from wherever they are made, whether they relate to wind stations or anything else being examined by the Archaeological Service with a view to protecting the archaeological sites and the historical sites of the ancient and newer monuments under Law 3028/2002. On the 13th of September of this year, the Department of Environmental Licensing of the Ministry of Environment and Energy was sent to the Ministry of Culture's services a study of the environmental impact of the project on the construction and operation of five wind power stations in Tsuka, Demeniti, Pyrari, Lucas, Chrussis and the accompanying works in the municipality of Stavra Municipality of Karystos. The Evia Antiquities Department has informed in writing that, not to say that the tax office is slowing down - it has informed the company concerned in writing that it should be precedented by its officials in the above positions. In the introduction of autopsy tax will obviously be considered - under the archaeological law - the proximity of monuments and archaeological sites. The monuments and the preached archaeological sites in the wider area of Styra are on the hill of Agios Nikolaos, the acropolis of Styra, known as the Castle of Armenia and on the slopes of the hill eight groups of Roman imperial quarries from which the extraction of the Styria stone took place. In 2012, six ancient buildings known as Drakostata were declared at Palli - Lakka, Kourthea, Port Capsules, Ilkise, Nikos Tower and the dragon house at the crossroad Velandhi, Haraka, Kopria. For the antiquities that extend to the area of Niborio and Agios Nikolaos, Evia Antiquities Department has shown special care in recent months. Since 2020, the process of rescheduling the boundaries of the archaeological site, which extends to the hill of Agios Nikolaos, has already started, and has already sent a file to the central services of the Ministry with a proposal to reschedul and extend the boundaries of the characterized archaeological site "Dracosio" on the site of the Tower of Nikolaos, due to the identification of newer elements. In addition, last July’s fire, having disintegrated the hill of Niborio from vegetation, brought to light for the first time the extent of the quartz facilities that occupy many acres. They are small and large fronts of ancient quarries which join lithium routes which are even kept in excellent condition, some of which go beyond six kilometers. In this context, Evia Antiquities Committee submitted a proposal for the delimitation of enlargement, i.e. the limits of the declared archaeological site "Dracosytos" at the Tower of Nikos, as I mentioned earlier in the redefinition of the archaeological site on the hill of Agios Nikolaos in order to enclose the findings that were recently identified with a view to better protection and promotion. It is clear from the above that the protection of the archaeological wealth of the region is a priority for the emancipation of antiquities rather than oligoria, as you said. The examination and the relevant opinion on the requested placement of a wind power park in Styra will obviously be carried out by the relevant bodies of the Ministry, i.e. the services and the central archaeological council, which will be called upon to give a legal opinion on the location.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u106	You have the floor, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, here you represent the services you are supervising, that is your role, so of course you are giving us their opinion and we are asking you for the services' placements on your behalf, so that is why we are asking for the opinion. This is a regular procedure. I think you know that. There is oligoria, of course, and there is oligoria because at the moment wind parks are located throughout Greece at a distance of archaeological sites that are less than one and a half kilometres away from the spatial planning. Have you ever filed a complaint about this? Have you asked for anything to change to the Energy Regulatory Authority? Have you spoken to the Ministry of the Environment on this matter? Licences shall be issued on a regular basis at distances such as this. The RAE has given a producer's license. He has also given permission to install and wind turbines have entered a shorter distance than one and a half miles from the declared archaeological site of the acropolis of Styres. What have you done about it? Isn't it blemish? But I want to be a little more clear about what you have asked, to make it a little more clear for the people who are listening to us. When will the archaeological site of Agios Nikolaos be rescheduled to include the hill of Nice? We agree on one thing: the archaeological site of Nice is very important. You said that after the fire the roads that connected and allowed the transport of mineral products were revealed, whether they were stone and other material. This whole network that is unique many times to be maintained in such a situation will be protected? What's the timeline? What will come first? The proclamation or installation of winds? That's what we're asking for. We are asking you to commit here that the archaeological site of Nikos will be protected, that no one will think that it will be declared, no one will think of installing wind turbines at least at the distance provided for by the spacebase of the RES, one and a half miles from them in a straight line. Corresponding to the Styre Acropolis, which as you know at a shorter distance than a mile and a half, they plan to put the substation in front of the Acropolis Memorandum Gate. Already have become the archaeological sites in your area zebra from the streets, two hundred meters below the acropolis site of Styra is the road from the existing wind. Will you continue to be inactive when there is so much desecration in the archaeological site by wind turbines against European legislation and against the space of the RES? We ask you to make your obligation to claim the integrity of our archaeological sites.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u108	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u109	As much as you are trying to convince us that the Archaeological Service unlawfuls you, I say, that it does not unlawful and keep and maintain absolutely - at least this service has not given any sign of illegality - what is imposed by the archaeological law and international conventions. With regard to the obvious question before us, I should like to say that, of course, administrative practice takes the view that when two dossiers relate to or coincide with their theme, and in this case the authorisation and re-orientation are at least normal to consider. The services of the Ministry of Culture are managed by scientists dedicated to the protection and promotion of cultural heritage. What you adopt in the case of Nice is the ones published by various associations and collectives of the region, who blame without having any specific public officials, the Archaeological Service and the Central Archaeological Council. These claims are insulting and serve some purposes so you can be sure. Because everyone knows very well that antiquities found during the installation of wind parks have never been destroyed. The opposite has happened. Where antiquities were found, even if the wind parks became, they were maintained and emerged at the expense of the master of the project, as foreseen by archaeological Law 3028/2002. I think you have a sensitivity to the stirring up of the climate crisis that is the greatest challenge of our time. With the European Green Agreement and the twenty-seven members we committed ourselves to turning the European Union into the first climate neutral continent by 2050. To achieve this, Member States have committed themselves to reducing emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. The government therefore supports alternative forms of energy. At the same time, however, the government is fully interested in saving the environment and the cultural landscape of our country. Be sure, Mr Papoutsis, that the competent bodies of the Ministry of Culture, whether they are services or collective opinions, will ensure that there is no discount on the protection of archaeological sites and monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. The first, with number 26/4-10-2021, is a top-stage question from the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Recommendation of a Technical Council of the Ministry of Education", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Member as he is on a mission of the Parliament. The first, with number 13/4-10-2021, is a topical question for the SYRIZA Deputy Laconia - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Application to the competent services of the European Union for the recognition of adverse weather phenomena in 2021 and for Community support for the agricultural income of the affected producers', will not be discussed in consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to the House that the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Civil Protection, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, Deputy Minister for Economic and Investment and the State, as well as the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, submitted on 8-10-2021 drafts of the Act: a. Repeal of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part, b. Repeal of the Partnership Agreement on Relations and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part, c. Repeal of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, d. Repeal of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. There will be a short break here, and after the interruption we will continue with legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: “Right political trial, adaptation of the provisions of the civil procedure for the digitisation of justice policy, other amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and other provisions of the Ministry of Justice”. In particular, with regard to the organisation of the debate, there are proposed in addition to the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Parliamentary Representatives as well as the Ministers, a first cycle involving a speaker from each parliamentary group, as well as a twelve-way circle of speakers each: five from the New Democracy, three from the SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the KKE, one from the Greek Solution, one from the Mer25, who will participate in the discussion in a natural presence. Likewise distributed in a 12-member cycle, it will be the Members who participate with a teleconferencing or physical presence. The draft law will be discussed in a single sitting on the principle, articles and amendments. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. For the four amendments which have been tabled, the Ministers responsible have been informed in good time to present them so that they can be taken into account by the Members who will take the floor. I think there is no objection to the basic suggestion. Therefore, with the agreement of this House, we can start with the general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Efstathos Konstantinides, for 15 minutes. Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these days a hundred and nine years ago the Greek liberation forces fought strategically with the Turkish army on 9 and 10 October in Sarantapro, which eventually took over a severe conflict with an opponent with a strong and geographical advantage. The price of victory, however, paid the martyr Serbs with the massacre of a hundred seventeen civilians, priests, teachers, protagonists. One day later, as today, under the sounds of the bells, the Greek army came to Kozani, opening the way for Macedonia's liberation. In its celebrations, then, the capital of Western Macedonia today honors the fighters and struggles for independence, democracy and justice. The good of justice and, in particular, the area of justice policy, as well as the draft law that I have the honour of presenting before this House today. Civil law, both material and procedural, is a sector which regulates the cases of individuals who arise in the context of their family, social and professional life, as well as the rules for the judicial resolution of such disputes. It is therefore obvious that quality in the administration of justice policy affects the lives of all citizens and is a democratic, living, social and development indicator for each country. However, it is an important condition for the proper functioning of justice that it should be given a reasonable time, as the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights demand, which, unfortunately, has not succeeded in achieving our judicial system to the desired extent, despite numerous efforts in this regard. It is clear that speeding up justice is a complex issue and requires the upgrading of infrastructure, the modernisation of systems, the strengthening of human resources, the simplification of legislation, the rationalisation of procedures and the improvement of other parameters affecting the various stages from the birth of the difference to the performance of legal protection, including the culture of each society. Systemic data monitoring and targeted intervention are therefore needed to address weaknesses in the system. The draft law is also under way in this direction. Six years after the extensive changes of Law4335/2015, the Committee established for this purpose, made up of judges, teachers, lawyers, assessed its results and recommended amendments to improve problematic provisions, resolve discrepancies and fill gaps in the Code of Civil Procedure. On the basis of this processing, the draft law introduces major innovations, extends critical deadlines and rights, reintroduces remedies that had been abolished, simplifies procedures and increases digital applications in civil justice. During the parliamentary process, representatives of counter-population and bodies recognised the shortcomings and were drawn up with the objectives and provisions of the draft law and, of course, expressed their concerns and opposition to specific issues. The provision, however, which brought together the greatest interest, is undoubtedly the introduction of the pilot trial to civil justice, an institution that has been applying for ten years to administrative, with great success. The aim is to resolve, in a uniform and secure way, cases of greater interest which cause congestion and delay in the administration of justice, employment of a large number of judges and officials, suffering and spending on citizens and often lead to conflicting decisions and the challenge of legal insecurity. We meet similar or similar institutions in French law, in German law, in the ‘Control - with a recent law - and similarities exist in the pilot trial of the European Court of Human Rights. Thus, it was considered appropriate to extend the institution and the political process to serve the same objectives of decongestion, acceleration and legal certainty. The opposition parties invoked functional and constitutional objections, without being able to explain convincingly why they consider the institution to be acceptable and effective in the administrative trial but not in the civil service. Furthermore, the alleged abolition of the right of each judge to the diffuse and indirect control of constitutionality is also unstable since the relevant judgment of the Ice Board in the pilot case is a strong case-law but will not bind other cases, other trials. At this point I am forced to return and emphasise once again the unjust, and dangerous position of the representatives of the Representation to work on the political trial affecting the authority of the judiciary when it places political and economic interests on the Ice Bay's Plenary Assembly and on the judges of the other grades that they will not have the stature to express their free and independent judgment. But this undermines the sense of citizens' confidence in the institutions of justice as a whole. Another issue that raised reactions from part of anti-population is the new simplified procedure in micro-differences. But the objections here are also unexplained, given the delay in these cases. What happens is that the micro-differentiated arrangements which have been tested in other cases, in particular procedural acts and deadlines, are also adopted. Moreover, it is contrary to their objective to govern their judgment in a strict and formal context when other proceedings have been simplified in an unequivocally greater manner on the subject. Thus, neither the taking of an oath of assurance without the call of the other party nor the assessment of evidence, in addition to those provided by the law, nor the submission of claims and evidence by a simple document - a memorandum or an electronic platform really undermines the level of legal protection. On the contrary, yes. The same applies to the joint declaration by the parties for representations in the specific procedure of the presentation to the second degree and to the consensual preambles, which certainly do not affect the principle of orality, since they are likely to be of a nature and in cases where the presence of the parties is now given procedural, formal and procedural character. The partial reintroduction of the right to suspend the opposition to the auctioning for the properties, which was also accompanied by a strong dose of excess. This is because, on the one hand, regulation is an improvement on the present situation and, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the grounds that property can also be suspended, but on the other hand, it can also be requested from the court of the court of appeal. As a result, property is neither devoid of legal protection. There, however, where hypocrisy really hit red was in the regulation for automatic gradual reduction in the auction price after two fertile auctions at 80% and three at 65%. This is because everyone knows that, after two and three fertile auctions, no price increase is currently decided for the day either. In fact, commercial interest and competition are the ones that determine the price. In addition, electronic procedures provide strong guarantees to prevent co-operation, while the conditions on the property market have changed significantly. Thus, the new regulation helps to decongested the courts which, under the current regime, would have to intervene to change the price. An objective criterion is therefore introduced, which leads practically without unnecessary procedures to the same result as the judicial decision. However, giving us special notice of Acquisition for facilities in the forced execution process reminds us of a patronage moistened for the orphan. On the matter of entrusting the judge responsible for drawing up a certificate to prevent the communication of the child with the parent, while listening to the reservations, I asked for replacement in the relevant article of the term to be established. The proposal of the Officerial Representation and the other representatives of the other parties was similar. The Minister has already agreed to re-examine the wording in question. However, from the committee's step, it has still been noted that the concern is unjustified, since either the court or the court has established the obstruction, the court will finally judge the court. However, because there have been even more severe criticisms on this matter and Article 931(2), which provides for a report by the judicial curator on every criminal offence committed in the enforcement process, that is to say, that is to say, the judiciary assesses the criminal offence. Strangely enough, the Qualifying Opposition also expressed its opposition to an issue outside the matter, limiting the witness proceedings to civil courts brought by Law No.4335/2015, i.e. the law of SYRIZA. Mr Lappas spoke hard against him, even said that blackmail was imposed by the institutions on the government, and that the then Minister for Justice was unable to change one and, not a single party in the text and that he was a failure and has to change. On the same subject, she was critically raised but not self-criticically, Ms. Jack and even more carefully, Mr. Xanthopoulou. However, other parties in the Opposition seem to be compiling. We therefore expect to hear the position of Officer Expression verbis and not halves, as well as why SYRIZA has not changed the arrangements for three and a half years since the implementation took place during the term of office of this law or even has not committed itself to doing so. I guess we wouldn't have done that either. Finally, all we caused was to tax. But you are now being cut off, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response, for the interests of justice professionals, but the strangling 'tax' and 'persistent raid' you have made in your term of office in the 'professionals of the tie' has remained monumental. Turning back to the draft law on the extension of deadlines to tactics, I believe that the attitude of counter-population was a mixed one. Others have written, others have said it is not helping, others have said it will be burdening the process in time. I think that what is happening is that it is in the right direction, and it is right to regulate that which facilitates the parties and the process as a whole. With regard to the provisions reintroducing legal aid and generally widening procedural and substantive rights of the parties, it is understood that no one can object. However, the fact that there are several such provisions - the number of articles in the bill is twofold - answers in the best way that the draft law allegedly sacrifices at the altar of speeding up justice. The truth is that the acceleration is being pursued by focused interventions that do not affect the quality and the guarantees of the process, and they restore rights that had been abolished where this was deemed necessary. That is why I think it is right that it is characterised as a well-balanced piece of legislation. However, the digital interventions contained in the provisions of the draft law will also be made available to professionals of justice, making their work easier and efficient. I think they also rightly received approval from the opposition parties, with the exception of the Greek Solution, which said yes to digitisation but not to excessive ones. Generally the excess damages all things. Finally, the well-founded judge will find many other practical solutions in the draft law, such as the possibility of taking a jury of lawyers, the home definition of courts for reasons of force majeure, the clearing of legal expenses where there is reasonable doubt as to the outcome of the proceedings, the addition of psychologists to the exceptional witnesses, the limitation of cases for essential errors not taking into account the validity of this agreement, the competence of the courts and tribunal in the main proceedings, the abolition of unrealistic deadlines for the legal proceedings, the suspension of proceedings of the court seised second in cases of arbitration in order to leave the court first seised to judge the validity of this agreement, but also other arrangements for the highest judicial boards, for judicial officers, for the Rhodes Court, and the extension of the possibility of practicing in criminal proceedings and unpaid proceedings. There are therefore sufficient reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for the parties to overcome their reservations and to vote in favour of the whole draft law, because it is useless and hypocritical on the one hand to record and agree on the chronic diseases of justice and on the other not to dare to support tested and successful solutions. Minister, Mr Secretary-General, thank you and your group for their excellent cooperation, and you, ladies and gentlemen, for your quality dialogue and attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u113	Thank you. Mrs Theodora Jakris, the general rapporteur of SYRIZA, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go into the legislative debate, I would like to make some points about the functioning of justice in general. According to a table of the results in the area of justice for 2021 presented by the European Commission, which the Minister accused me of presenting them unilaterally while I presented them unilaterally, Greece still has one of the highest times when the cases are dealt with, whether in civil and commercial matters or in criminal matters, while the number of pending cases is also high in the courts of the country. The results of the survey are also disappointing in relation to certain aspects of the quality of justice, especially in terms of digital justice. Let me remind you here that, in the days of the SYRIZA ruling, the integrated judicial affairs management system for civil and criminal justice has been received on which all actions have been based during the pandemic in terms of digital justice. Nevertheless, while you have a very important digital tool in your hands, it is the area of justice that has evolved less during the pandemic than in other public sectors. This demonstrates that you have no vision of the functioning and modernisation of justice as a whole, and that has become clear for two years now. From the beginning of the pandemic and to this day justice has been failing. For many months only urgent cases were dealt with, and citizens' claims and rights were suspended. For two years you have not taken any steps to ensure that justice is given timely and securely as in other countries of the European Union. But even after your celebratory announcements about the opening of the courts, the situation is still tragic. The famous opening took place without substantial measures and is essentially a sideline of the opening up of public services. Lawyers are set up for hours at the entrances of courts, secretaries, mortgages and public services with the consequence of unnecessary waste of valuable time. Deposits of the pleadings shall be made when the ending number of the pre-concession note expires and when the registration number is due. But justice, as I told you, Minister, is not a lottery. The large gaps in the organic positions of the judicial officers further make the problem of the proper administration of justice more difficult. Let me remind you that only in the Athens Court of First Instance 43% of the posts are vacant. But the indifference of the government in terms of justice has also been apparent from the treatment of lawyers throughout the pandemic. So the scientists of the tie, Mr. Constantinidis, as you reminded us, although the entire affected sector, received only 600 euros throughout the pandemic, and this after the scandal of the "helicopterate". Of the repayable advances, the vast majority of the industry was excluded. Even with regard to the evolution of the NSRP programme for the digital upgrading of legal offices, there is no new one, despite the fact that this tool is useful much more to upgrade digital justice. Unfortunately, the government does not identify justice as a pillar of democracy but as a field of private interest and I am explaining. Ladies and gentlemen, in this environment of the complete dissolution of justice, a bill entitled 'Rapid political trial, the adaptation of the provisions of the political procedure to digitize justice policy' would seem to be very promising. It is undeniable that speed in the administration of justice is demanded over time both for the officials of Themida and for society in general, as it is an important factor in economic growth and then social prosperity. The speeding up of the administration of justice policy, however, without combining it with its effectiveness, is a letter of content, because it is not ensured that it is given timely and validly, as stated in Article 6 of the ECHR on a fair trial. So the question arises as to whether the bill under discussion serves these objectives, namely the rapid and effective administration of justice and the unprotected protection of the weak citizens? The answer is, no, and I'll explain why. In Article 2 of this day, the institution of the pilot trial and in the civil courts in an unprecedented and unprecedented form in world law. This means that a new, completely experimental institution will be applied in our country with consequences, however, for the majority of citizens. In accordance with the provisions of Article 2, any legal aid or instrument brought before any political court may, by a simple act of the three-member committee, be introduced in full plenary session at the request of one of the parties or at the request of a preliminary ruling by a Judge when a new problem of interpretation is raised or a question of general interest which has implications for a wide range of persons. In other words, it is possible for the Areo ice to deal with an issue even at an early stage, before this issue becomes even more widespread with the triggering of the public debate on what is usually caused by its passage from the first and second degrees of jurisdiction. It is also worth pointing out that the draft that was put into consultation provided for the question to the full plenary session of the Ice Arena to be introduced by a simple act of the three-member committee following a request for a party, a judge or the Advocate-General of the Ice Bay. However, in the case of a bill the question may be introduced directly into the full plenary session of the Ice Bay by a simple act of the prosecutor of the Ice Arena. I asked you, Minister, and in the debate on the articles, and I ask you now: why did you give the prosecutor of the Ice Bay the opportunity to circumvent the three-member committee, which is composed of the most experts, and what changed from the time of the consultation until today to give this direct authority to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay? In addition, the courts are not advisory bodies. The fact that a party claims that a question of general interest is raised by the legal aid or instrument of a more general interest does not mean that the resolution of its own legal instrument depends on the solution of that issue. So why, with the institution of the pilot case, do you allow the request to be made to the three-member committee by parties and not only by the judge of the substance, as is the case, for example, in the Court of Justice of the European Communities? Thus, the maximum cancellation will be imposed with the obligation to respond to the conditions which make or not any question of more general interest which has implications for a wide range of individuals in many requests. The Marios Ice, however, is not a court of substance to deal with such matters. Therefore, this provision affects the separation of functions. General judgments about the law can only be made by the legislator. The judge is in dispute. In many cases of power this will be an advisory procedure which will be burdened with the Marble Ice. Who is more competent than the ECJ to judge whether a dispute is difficult to resolve? Why does no other country of the European Union allow a party, an Ombudsman, to address the highest judge? Also, if the issues of constitutionality of the laws are included in the general interest, the pilot trial will function in the matter as a quasi-constitutional court, which does not exist in our jurisprudence and in fact will limit the diffusive and incidental constitutionality of the laws from the primary and secondary courts contrary to the provisions of Articles 87(2) and 93(4) of the Constitution. Furthermore, this provision will unduly restrict the free judgement of the judges of the substance by affecting their independence, will lead them to suffocation and to mobilise justice, making the ordinary bureaucrats. The pilot trial, ladies and gentlemen, to remind me of the history was first introduced into the German judiciary in 2005 with quite a different target, however. It concerns only differences in capital market issues in order to facilitate access to justice for those who have been harmed by similar illegality or methodological practices in the cases of TLECOM and CHRYSLER in order to ensure that their claims for damages against those responsible are legalised. This group of proceedings, which has been specifically concerned with the liability of public limited liability companies, financial institutions and investment institutions and companies, is to be heard at the court of appeal and is to appeal against the decision adopted. It's not once, as foreseen here. In addition, the judge who has the case at the court is judging the case as a whole and all the other plaintiffs are waiting for his judgment in order for their case to be tried. Your goals, however, are completely different. Who are these? To serve the interests of banks, funds and major business groups. What is actually intended is to introduce to a first and last degree trials, such as those of the Swiss franc, borrowers, general trading conditions relating to a large proportion of citizens and any positive decisions in favour of them would cause triumphs in the financial system. In addition, proceedings relating to labour disputes such as those of the Contracting Contracting Parties to the Civil Service when it acts as fiscus, local government bodies and legal persons governed by public law which are either held in a labour hostage with several contracts, and cover fixed and long-term needs or do not pay them any remuneration and allowances paid to their respective employees in an organizational position, disputes between workers in large enterprises who wish to qualify as freelancer instead of employees with a dependent employment or bloc whose employers refuse to convert work contracts into an indefinite period of work, thereby escape the payment of insurance contributions, gifts, allowances and the granting of days of paid leave. It is well known that lower courts have adopted decisions that conflict with the great interests by protecting workers. That is what you seek to do, Minister. These decisions you seek to overthrow. You're telling us you're following the example of S.H.E.L.D. But you're obviously forgetting that the S.H.I.E.L.D. the main object of the appeals for annulment, i.e. it is a court of a substance which is at first and last instance, is not a Martian Ice which judges appeals, particularly in the S.E. the legality principle applies to administrative law, and not private law, which depends on the circumstances of each case. Finally, since you wish to enter the pilot trial into the private differences at least to put security controls similar to those in force in the Court of Justice of the European Communities, so that the new incoming institution operates in favour of the majority of citizens and so ensure that the Areos Ice does not act as a quasi-institution. However, it should be laid down that only the Judge and not the parties will be able to submit his question to the full plenary session of the Ice Arena, having examined the admissibility of the case on the one hand and, on the other, whether the order for the action or instrument in question is crucial. In any case, however, it is necessary to remove the possibility for the prosecutor of the Ice Arena directly to introduce to the full Plenary Assembly of the Ice Arena the present legal aid or means if you want the Ice Arena Prosecutor, Mr Minister, to make him a member of the committee. It is equally problematic that Article 3, which abolishes the principle of orality in the civil proceedings, is also deleted. Orality is now maintained only in insurance measures and matrimonial differences. In fact, in Articles 24 and 25, testimonial statements are limited to what is strictly necessary, in micro-diversities, by completely changing the way in which the treatment is exercised and discussed. Article 41 provides for the possibility of a joint declaration that the parties will not attend the hearing, and it says - to include their objections in the minutes. I also pointed it out in demand on the articles. There is a reasonable contradiction here and you must resolve it, Minister. Affidavits which may be obtained under the provision of Article 22 of the bill by five with the proposals and three with the addition now become three with the proposals and two with the addition of each degree of jurisdiction. And while this regulation is moving in the right direction, you do not at the same time strengthen the oral examination of witnesses before the seat, which alone leads to good judicial decisions. The provision of Article 62 in the event of the parent being prevented from communicating with the child shall give the court curator the right to confirm the obstruction by abolishing the right of the parent who has the right to communicate to a trial in order to ensure the prevention of communication with his or her child. In fact, the court is substituted by the curator, to whom the judiciary is assigned. It is a regulation that is completely in the wrong direction, Minister, since the sentence that the court has threatened is also imposed on it. The term ‘confirms’ should be replaced by ‘identifies’. Then the provision of Article 68 is understood, I think everyone who comes to serve. This provision provides that a court decision is not required in order to reduce the first bid price following two fertile auctions. Since there are two fertile auctions, the third comes out with a first offer price equal to 80% of the initially fixed price and the fourth with a first bid price of 65%. All this is done automatically, without a court ruling and, in fact, within a very short period of time. In this case, therefore, there is a strong incentive for all the bidders to expect the price to fall into the fourth auction, which is in forty days, and then to bid. The only good thing is the bidder. Nor is the lender interested in a smaller auction, and certainly neither is the debtor. So listen, Mr Constantinidis, who is benefiting from this provision? The CEO of ‘CEPAL’, the fund managing the NPLs of Alpha Bank, at the annual conference of non-performance loans, of non-performing loans, referred to the conduct of fifty thousand auctions a year for the next five years, mentioning a return to the regularity of the auctions, expressly referring to this provision of the Code of Civil Procedure as you suggest, which provides for an automatic reduction in the price of the property without a prior judicial decision, in fact saying that this provision will take place before 2008. So you clearly understand who comes to serve this provision. I am now continuing with Article 61, with which you are enacting the only partial reintroduction of the old Article 938 in terms of mobile and confiscations in the hands of a third party. There is a continuing obsession with the universal ban on the suspension of property seizures. I told you in the debate on the articles that the opposition to Article 933 on property in the Court of First Instance of Athens has been avenged since 2027, which means that without suspension the property is lost for everyone. So I think suspending property seizure execution is a regulation that would bring relief to thousands of households and businesses. I now come to Article 21. You essentially legalise the exceptional arrangements applicable to COVID measures and affidavits can also be obtained from lawyers who are not the parties' proxy. We propose that the jurors be completely removed from the pacifist courts and, of course, because this will be an additional financial burden for the party, that the institution of legal aid should also be extended to these acts. Finally, it is incomprehensible to predict so many different starting years in the provisions that are being amended. We have also proposed in the debate on the articles and we are now saying that there should be a single entry into force and that should be the first day of the next court year, namely September 2022. I think that, after all I have pointed out in the most critical and important points of the bill, this shows that it is awkward and unfortunate. It also makes it clear that you are not legislating with the Code of Civil Procedure, as you are proposing, in favour of a large majority of citizens. The administration of justice, as you can see, will become even more difficult for the weak and weak, for all those who the state must take special care to protect themselves, taking special measures. Mr President, we are therefore voting against it in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u116	Minister, I'll give you the floor for two minutes. But every time a rapporteur makes a reference to something you do not agree with, you will collect it and you will have more time to answer. I won't interrupt the flow to answer every time. You have the floor for two minutes, first and last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. I mean, it's something I'm not used to. The only reason why I asked for an intervention is to help Mrs Jackson understand, but also some other colleagues who will probably repeat the same. And I will do so in the Minutes, in order to read better, both the report by the European Commission and the European Justice Scoreboard report. Mrs. Jackrey, do you know the delays in what period they're talking about? I will tell you that the figures for 2020 are still collected in 2021. Do you know at a time about it? In the period of your own rule. Rather, you have not read and you have not understood exactly what the Commission's report says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u118	And look at the curves...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u119	You'll see, don't worry. I'll give it to you to see. I hope you understand it. It is now up to you to repeat what you have said in committee, even though I have told you that it is not so, even though I have replied publicly that it is not so. But no one bothers to read them. And if you don't, I'm going to have to do it from Stepma during my speech. However, what is in the same report do you know what it is? It is the fact - and it is confirmed - that serious and positive reforms are taking place in Greek justice in the last period, with many issues, which has led to an increase in the confidence of Greek citizens after many years in the functioning of justice, but also, of course, to show clearly that the effort made by the Greek side has managed to upgrade our country's position on all these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u120	Can I answer that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u121	No, Mrs. Jackie. In your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u122	Mrs. Jackrey, you'll see, you'll read them. It's good to read them... Do you know what the black point of the report is? The reference to the fact that the previous government made active bribery and the fact that this government was able to change that. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u124	We're not gonna make the ping pong for impressions. Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u125	As to how you responded, do you think that the New Democracy has come from virginity and has no responsibility for the situation in which justice is today and that, in any case, it is only responsible for it from 2019 onwards? Tragically it's the evidence, and I told you. Furthermore, apart from the points I have made in this regard, there are tables with the curves. It is therefore right, Minister, to see the tables of data-based curves after 2019, to follow them. And I'll testify them to keep an eye on them. In addition, what points out, the positive that has happened in the previous period, is that there are some digital tools to monitor the movement and the process of recordings in various procedures, including criminal and civil justice and administrative justice. This has been done in previous years in the direction of digital justice, because I have referred to these indicators. Consider them, therefore, read them more carefully, but do not just look at the texts. Tables we read by looking at them and seeing the curves to see how they go. In any case, Minister, the New Democracy has not been involved in justice since 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u126	That's not an intervention - answer, it's a placement. Please. When we talk from our position to wear our mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u128	You can't answer that again, Minister. Keep it for your speech. We won't go at 12 o'clock doing this. Mrs Giannakopoulou, a special buyer from the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating another bill in the House in recent months on modernising and speeding up Greek justice. Of course, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, under no circumstances can we ignore the difficult reality that we know very well, particularly the lawyers in this Chamber, and even better the Greek society, who is very afflicted with waiting many years for judicial decisions to come. Of course, Minister, I cannot understand how you react when, yes, the opposition parties are talking about and we tell you what is included in the European Commission report. Honestly, I consider your style to be unacceptable, to teach us, as if we have not read and we do not know very well what exactly is contained in this report. You do it often. So please, very much to see it again. Because here our goal is not to make a sterile opposition, Mr. Chiara. Our aim is to take a very serious approach to what is stated in the report. The text, whether you like it or not, Mr Chiara, was a trick for very important issues that concern us, such as the independence of Greek justice - you have read them, I will not say to you'read the best', as you say to us - as is the way in which the leaderships of supreme courts are chosen, such as delays in the administration of justice. All of this cannot be a sterile dialogue here, you have made it worse, we would do better or just a small-party confrontation product. This shows that we are still completely immature as a political system. You currently have the highest institutional role to do with those reforms that you need to do and we are all here to support it. Unfortunately, however, I fear very much that on your part we are seeing a tendency to simply beautify situations, ostrichism, not to say self-admiration, Minister. If we want to be serious and solve the chronic diseases of the Hellenic Republic and the most serious of which has to do with the times of justice, the first way to start, the first thing we need to do is to read the reality properly no matter how much it hurts. Look at her and talk. It is therefore a democratic challenge to modernise justice and to need a wide-ranging dialogue so that we can eliminate these pathogens. As far as today's draft law is concerned, I will of course repeat once again, ladies and gentlemen, that we must all bear in mind the importance of the Code of Civil Procedure, both as a cornerstone of the administration of justice and of the incorporation of the feeling of law in society in general, since, yes, the political process is all the rules governing the procedure before the political courts, namely the procedure for resolving private disputes. For this reason, any change and reform must be the result of sound dialogue and proposals that do not affect already acquired constitutionally guaranteed rights on the altar of supposedly reform, as your Government is very often dealing with reforms, superficial and shallow. So the question is: Is the purpose of improving and speeding up the administration of justice with the changes you bring about? We have a clear position, and we believe that even if some provisions are included that move in the right direction and correct some of the diseases caused by the vote of SYRIZA's No.4335/2015, it ultimately fails, as it introduces extremely problematic regulations that will cause far greater problems than they are called to resolve. But let's start over. The lawyers in particular in this Chamber think we are well aware that a number of the existing provisions of Law No.4335/2015 have created significant problems in conducting the political trial, which had to be resolved to speed up and simplify procedures, to ensure legal certainty and to ensure the balanced position of the parties. Instead of the devastating acceleration, however, there was a huge slowdown in the administration of justice. Six years after the implementation of the new code, the judges are much shorter in the specific procedures where the procedure has remained largely unchanged and much longer in the regular procedure which has been the focus of the procedural counter-reform of SYRIZA, as it was then considered wrong, as in practice, that by establishing the so-called debate within a hundred days - a hundred and twenty you are now doing it - in the regular procedure and the formal debate that follows that the problem would then be solved. The results I think are well known to all of us. Features, I told you and the committees, today in Athens to come out with a regular case of one-and-a-half and only two-and-a-half years for the first degree, while instead of the special procedures, in Athens, in Piraeus, in Thessaloniki and in the big cities, the suites are in two, three, five months at most. In addition, affidavits with L.4335/2015 became the rule, since it seldom follows the discussion on the examination of witnesses, resulting in the evidence being incomplete, since the texts of the jury attestations are prepared in advance and the possibility of finding the essential truth is lost through the witness's review at the audience. The abolition of the temporary judicial protection system in enforcement has led to the possibility of being effectively protected at the time of the initiation of the enforcement of the debtor by unlawful or misuse of the creditor. In practice, it is known that property was lost due to the debtor’s inability to obtain full, effective and mainly early judicial protection by the law introduced by SYRIZA in 2015. What are you doing? So you bring a text of today's draft law which is coming to amend Law No.4335 and which, yes, I told you that it has some provisions that are moving in the right direction and that it corrects some of the pathogens that have been caused by the adoption of the law in force so far. However, there are important issues which we have not only identified, not only did the opposition as a whole, but also the overwhelming majority, put them to you by all the institutions. Well or badly, what to do, Minister, these are the issues that give the tone to this bill. Honestly, I really hoped and hoped to date that if you want a report of reflections and remarks from different sides, it would make you or make you, I hope, reassess your initial proposals. On those positive points which are observed in the draft law - I do not want to be equivocal - and which seem to improve in practice some of the problems of Law4335: First of all, the amendment of Article 38 which now allows an application for suspension of execution, but in the event that only mobiles are seized. Such protection is thus granted to debtors who so far have not been provided under the existing legislative framework. Second, the fact that in the ordinary procedure for the initiation of the time-limit for submitting the proposals, account is now taken of the expiry of the time-limit for service and not of the application as was wrongly the case. Thirdly, that a period of five working days is now provided for in order to add an impact to the specific procedures, so that there is sufficient time to prepare and counter the proposals and in accordance with Article 938 of the Code of Civil Procedure may now be cumulated. However, despite the above improvements, the draft law either maintains or incorrectly amends certain provisions. You also have a responsibility here, because you have had tangible results and the experience of six years of implementation of Law4335, because you have formed an opinion from the hearing of the bodies, because you have heard the objections and criticisms of the opposition. So - even so far - you can listen, adopt and give solutions. In particular, you did not go any further, Minister, to abolish the purely written procedure in the regular procedure and the possibility of witnessing in the case and the abolition of the formal debate on the case, which has so far only caused delays. You did not go ahead with the full reintroduction of 938 of the Code of Civil Procedure as it was before 4335, in order to also give the debtors the right to suspend property. This is how you continue to allow - after the SYRIZA that sheds crocodile tears today - to lenders - to coron, that is, to financial institutions, banks and the funds - to carry out execution procedures on a very large scale, and above all, essentially unobstructed. Congratulations! Nor did you go ahead with the abolition of the pipeline in recognizing actions, nor did you allow an appeal against a decision against an order for payment. Minister, I would like to focus in particular on the main change you are trying to bring and which shows the obsession of your Government with a deeply problematic institution for this type of case, the pilot trial, which you have been very critical of by all: institutions and opposition. The prediction of the pilot trial in political cases raises obvious issues of constitutionality - everyone has said so - as it clearly undermines constitutionally predicted diffuse and incidental control of constitutionality by the political courts. It is obvious that with the promoted change, you enter a quasi constitutional court from the back door. The centralised control you are seeking to introduce with the new institution of the pilot trial is inconsistent with our legal tradition and our timeless constitutional acquis. The purpose of this proposed regulation is - you say - to speed up the political trial. However, I fear that this will not happen, Minister. The idea that the citizen can solve his problem through the pilot trial is unrealistic. Unlike the public law governed by the principle of legality, in which, yes, this institution can stand and successfully, Private Law, to a very large extent, depends on the specific circumstances of each particular case. In most cases, therefore, the answer to a legal question will relate only to one of the many issues raised in the proceedings and only to one of the legal bases on which one or more claims by the plaintiff are based. Thus, contrary to - and I stress it - administrative differences which are relatively easy to standardised according to the contested administrative act and the specific legislative power given to it, private differences only in extremely rare cases will result in the end of the proceedings. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little more time, Mr. President. Please for your tolerance. It should also be stressed that such a pilot trial for private differences is not provided for in any other legal order. The most relevant example that exists is the preliminary question to the WEU, from which it would be advisable to have been inspired before bringing the reform - let's say it - as you bring it. Minister, the civil courts are neither advisory bodies nor provide legal advice. As the principle of separation of powers requires, only the resolution of the particular private disputes brought before them. It is therefore extremely important to ensure that the broader legal issue, which is raised, is essential to resolve the particular dispute referred to in plenary. Finally, contrary to the original draft, which was put before Parliament, it will not only be decided by the three-member committee of the Ice Bay, but also by means of a simple act, which is not objectively justified, since the three-member committee consists of the most substantiated judges in the subject, while the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, unfortunately, does not have this experience. In any case, Minister - and I am closing with this, Mr President - I am very afraid - as has been said by the institutions and I sincerely say to you, I wish not to be confirmed - at the level of practical implementation in the regulatory framework of the pilot trial, as all the institutions - fears of bank contracts and loans, such as cases of Swiss francs, such as cases of labour disputes, as well as cases of contract and overdue households, will ultimately be affected by the most vulnerable and weaker parties, who at the present very difficult times should be in need of the greatest possible protection. After all, we have said this and will continue to say it - it is the very concept of the rule of law, the protection of the weakest, not the facilitation of the most powerful, as you do with these regulations. Unfortunately, however, you are bringing in a front-run bed, in which you will try to incorporate different cases of different parties and with different requests, of course, at the expense of the most vulnerable. That is why we can only vote against this draft law in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u130	The Minister has the floor to testify to the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, we are putting forward the legislative improvements so that they can be in Members' knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u132	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to all parties. Ms Maria Konnaka is now called on the part of the Communist Party of Greece at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, over the past few years - at least in the last decade - there have been sweeping changes in key areas of civil law, but also in the system of awarding justice, changes in codes, key laws, but also in individual interventions that constitute a more comprehensive grid of reactive urban modernisation. It is revealed by all the changes that have been made in the civil proceedings, that they are in fact serving the most effective implementation of anti-grass laws on behalf of the power of capital. The indisputable interlinked relationship between the substance and the legal law shall not cease to have and be characterised by class content. The path of the changes to the Code of Civil Procedure, starting from the years 2010-2012 to reach the applicable code adopted by SYRIZA in 2015, but also the ones promoted today by the New Democracy, is a typical example of how this long-term targeting has been served, to turn the civil trial into an increasingly effective tool in the hands of the great capital. Such an effective tool was for employers in labour disputes, banks for seizures in the auctions of popular property, for large businesses in commercial affairs, insurance companies, investors, in general in the hands of the financially powerful parties in any dispute, of course enjoying the respective legal services. In short, this fairy tale of the then government of SYRIZA was allegedly forced to put the code to the vote in Parliament because of the pressure from the lenders with whom he had so much disagreement and even described before the 2015 elections as an abominable one. It turns out that overall the reforms of recent years in justice have been serving deeper and time-consuming targets to upgrade the functioning of the urban state to serve the modern urban order strategy. Didn't you guys confess to that? Does it need more convincing confirmation from the cynical confession of the Pissaridis report that justice must be transformed from uncertainty to confidence in investors? That is why the acceleration when it comes to investors is translated into luxurious and sufficiently staffed investment divisions, while in cases involving more popular strata, workers and others the existing problem of long delays is translated into a restriction even where their procedural rights are guaranteed by this Civil Law. So in the front of this Pissaridis report, which expresses the core of this strategy in civil justice and, of course, is implemented by the Government, there is also an extension of the pilot trial to all kinds of civil proceedings, as is already the case with the administrative courts. So the introduction of the pilot trial and the Argentine Igo was an expected development that has been preparing for a long time, having been particularly concerned with scientific dialogue. That is why there are not many people here today who are surprised. A lot more when they at the same time defend the implementation of the institution in the Council of State, trying to hide that, especially in the years of the memorandum, the pilot trial worked as a useful tool to modulate fair demands and people's needs in the narrow corset of budgetary possibilities without the slightest derogation. Because the substance of the nature of the pilot case is right there, the suffocating from above in the formulation of case-law, in order to serve the basic aim of uniformly effective and rapid enforcement of civil law without any margin of any more than a little different interpretation from the one demanded by the European Union, the BSE, the association of banks, the shipowners, the class of capitalists as a whole. In other words, in cases of general interest, they are of wider popular interest and they are of a different opinion as to whether these provisions are in breach of even this protection guaranteed by the Constitution, they seek to interfere with the supreme court and to define an interpretation which binds everyone to exclude the possibility for certain judges to diversify themselves and to try to exploit whatever wastes are present in the hostile to popular interests. And this criticism is not only made in the JRC, which, after all, we have a certain view of the dependent nature of justice in the context of the capitalist economy. They are objections made by the association of judges themselves, by the plenary session of lawyers, by other representatives of legal and scientific bodies. Is the concerns about how to interpret these kinds of pilot trials critical when, for example, the recurring and even of the Ice Bay itself are already known about whether or not the various contractors cover, for example, permanent and permanent needs in the subordinated public services? Or are you saying, above their capabilities, that such a fraud does not in any way affect the banks that were sharing cards and loans with the bag? When nine out of ten strikes are judged in the courts illegal and abusive in order not to jeopardise the profits of businesses, will the interpretation of the pilot trial give another orientation to the crucial issues raised by the Hatzidakis Act on the right to strike, the raw intervention of the union, the reduction of trade union freedoms, this concept of last year's settlement and so on? That is why the dangerous and reactionary character of the pilot trial is more popular than just a matter of theoretical legal interest. Because eventually the pilot trial is another weapon in the patronage of capital and government to enforce the law and order against the people. As for the argument put forward by the Government that it was in this way that the financially weaker are relieved of unnecessary costs and time-consuming costs in court struggles, it is indeed only as a monument of hypocrisy that we can call it. It has not taken you any pain in the costs and burdens that you bear upon them, when you are planning new obstacles to access to justice with the sloppy private mediation, or with the judiciary in the recognizing actions brought by today's rapporteur and so many others. You only invoke them when you're going to shut them down at any court protection. The reactionary nature of the bill is confirmed not only by the changes that are currently being introduced but also because, in fact, these reactive areas that have occurred in previous years in the Code of Civil Procedure have also been extended, which of course have not been undone by certain corrections which have, of course, been necessary since its implementation. In practice, the two main sections that marked the spirit of the new code, i.e. speeding up enforcement and auctioning to the benefit of banks, as well as establishing written evidence and effectively abolishing the alive examination of the witnesses at the audience in the cases of the ordinary procedure are permanently permanentised. The continuous changes made in favour of banks and funds in the process of enforced execution are indeed eye-to- eye. With this unacceptable arrangement for automatic reduction in the price of the first offer in case the auctioning of up to 65% of the original value is deemed to be barren, the carpet is turned on to the electronic gambling for the people's home or the small business of the self-employed to come out to the hammer and the labor and labor of an entire life. And it is even more challenging that the explanatory statement of the provision on transparency and healthy competition, which allegedly shapes the highest bid, is an even greater challenge. Really? What are the conditions for transparency and healthy competition in the agreements between the various auction crows, banks, property management companies, where the new draft law even allows the joint bid to facilitate these partnerships, to be used through the new electronic systems? It is typical of this bias in favour of the banks that you have not restored the possibility of suspending execution proceedings relating to immovable property, so that there is no real obstacle to auctioning. At the same time, all previous reactionary changes to the law of enforcement are maintained with regard to the privileged classification of banks, multiple seizures, deprivation of procedural rights of the debtor concerning the possibility of opposition and others. And you come with Article 73 to give another blow to the unsubstantiated protection of labour claims in the case of the auctioning of the property of the company concerned. It is not enough, therefore, that you abolished the self-evident right of the employees of an undertaking first from the auctioning of all claims, wages, salaries, etc., all that you really deserve and cannot expect to be satisfied by the banks, but only limited it to those in the last two years with the responsibility of all of you, and today the New Democracy comes to set the date for starting the calculation of this two-year privilege not from the original auction, but on the basis of the date that it is finally taking place. And to bring an example to understand: If, for example, an enterprise owed employees as from 2014 and 2016, it closed and threw them all on the road, already on the basis of current data and on the basis of the timing of the auctions, if, for example, the first auction was set in 2017, they will be able to satisfy only the prizes of 2015. That is to say they've lost their demands since 2014. With today's provision, if auctioning is postponed and finally carried out a year later, in 2018, workers will lose all their claims as they will have absolutely no privilege over banks and in these cases it is well known what the rest of the claims are to be met. So that's your justice. The live experience gained throughout the previous period in the application of the new code confirms the criticisms that have been made and the application of the written evidence procedure to the regular procedure and underlines the classicity of persistence in its preservation. In practice, it has been shown that its establishment benefits only the large companies that have the right staff, money and mechanisms to keep complete computer systems, a large file of documents, and that it also fulfils the procedural duty of documentary proof and, indeed, within short and inappropriate deadlines. The economically weaker part, i.e. the average poor party, who rarely has such tools, is objectively in a more unfavourable position. The majority of the self-employed lawyers who are unable to cope with the daily suffering and the chasing of suffocating deadlines within the document ranging from the new regular procedure, since they do not, of course, have two and three lawyers who can deal with the closure of each file. At the same time, the reality itself strongly disproves the speeding up of the administration of justice, since, in particular, in the large courts, all the limits described for the appointment of judges, judgments, etc. no letter shall remain empty. At the same time, this mockery of the jury's statements is common to everyone that it does not actually allow the actual investigation of the truth and the confession of this assumption is the provision to limit the permitted number of jurys, but without the reintroduction of the witness's living test will lead to even worse results. We cannot, of course, comment on the hypocrisy of SYRIZA, which is suddenly annoyed at this reduction in the principle of orality when he himself has brought the abolition of the witness receipt in the body of the political trial to an end. This sterile and problematic proof is now being extended to the small differences which in any case have a relatively small economic effect, which is dependent on what wallets are being sent to them, which does not automatically make them either simple or unproven. But more problematic is their proposed solution through electronic platforms, which, in our opinion, opens dangerous paths for the distorting and reacting introduction of artificial intelligence and algorithm systems in the administration of justice in conditions of deep class division and inequality in urban society. The debate on digital justice, which concerns all civil servants in many countries, does not only concern the self-evident need for the use of technology in practical matters in various services, such as electronic deposit of lawyers, etc., but has a deeper class content by scoring principles and insurance controls that your civil law is supposed to protect against all workers and people' rights. Finally, we insist on the criticism of the regulation of Article 62 concerning the judges' accreditation in the matters of parental - child communication. I referred in detail to the committee on the recent changes in family law that not only gave an answer to existing problems, but rather in some cases further strengthen the climate of polarisation and competition between parents. However, it is even more problematic to entrust judges, who in any case cease to be dependent on their client, with the competence to testify to events which will have serious consequences for a role of quasi-corps, much more on such sensitive issues as the protection of minors requiring specific scientific knowledge and similar experience. The median change of the word from 'confirms' to 'confirms' of course keeps the substance of the problem fully in mind since, of course, the authentication act will have legal consequences, otherwise there would be no reason to adopt it. For all these reasons, but also on the basis of the criticism we have developed in the individual provisions in the debate in committee, we are voting against the bill at first, which is another link in the formation of a justice more effective for the business interests and the needs of capital and therefore objectively hostile to the rights and needs of workers and peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Antonios Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning and good week from me. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, another bill from the Ministry of Justice. By the time the elections arrive, I think you'll bring enough more. Everything is in one direction, so at least you say. This bill is about the rapid political trial. I wanted to know - you are not a legal person, I am not a lawman - a simple citizen with the letters he knows, with what he has spent in court for so many years, does he really believe, if he will see this bill, that the political trial will accelerate? He said Mr. Constantinidis about digitization. We will accept this because when we entered, Mr Constantinidis, in the House we promised one thing: With the hand in the heart we will always be next to the ordinary Greek citizen to solve problems. If necessary, we're helping the government. Wherever we need to denounce the government. And at the same time we make proposals. That is why we have made proposals and I will repeat them because a rapid political trial, a fair political trial, is not a matter appropriate to this bill, it does not solve any problem. Mr.4335/2015, Minister, who SYRIZA brought to Greek society a message that it was the government in favour of capital, in favour of the powerful. People lost their homes. And nobody was expecting New Democracy to come and solve this problem. We see it clearly. Not only does it speed up, but it does not solve any problem at all and it is no different, except for some minor differences and digitisation, which not in all cases but in most cases, because - you know - is not going in one direction, it is not going in one direction and we lose the measure. That's the logic. I want to say two, three things, Minister, because you are the Head of Government in the field of justice, a justice that the Greek people want to be independent. Bullshit. No independence. And we're not talking in the small steps, we're not talking about what the ordinary Greek citizen is pulling. On essential issues, the head of justice always takes the part of the government. Always! It's not just because it's you now. And before that, SYRIZA and the government you had built. Did you see what happened in Austria? How many times have we not asked all parties here to see what is going on with polling and polling? Many times. How many times we haven't reported that with the money you've given - the tens of millions! - you've broken the media and disappeared all parties, but in fact, a little bit of SYRIZA, so they can keep a natural face of battle. Today, for example, I saw Mr. Courides. Not that I have anything, that man is fine, he says it well what he wants to say. I saw him half an hour ago and I see him later with SYRIZA. Aren't we anywhere? The Greek solution isn't there? A party that came here and has given you the right to tell everyone that it is a serious party with serious reasonable proposals. It's okay. I am staying, Minister - and I say this to your Government - in the Netherlands. Every day, crime is growing. If it were government, SYRIZA would have gone out on the bars and said you were useless. You have Toska saying to turn your back. What are you doing? What are these things? Every day. From Omonia to Patisia there is no Greek that can be released. No Greeks are released. Everyone runs with their cars fast, quick to go to work, to the supermarket and to get back. They're evacuating cops. Another matter. I also sent a letter to Mr Chryssohoid. We tell you to strengthen the Omonoia departments, Saint Panteleimonas, Patisias. Nothing. It's about to close the Omonia department. What are you doing? How do you want people to take you seriously? Let's go to the bill now. You try to modify to all the individual books - eight in the code number - sometimes important - and we have to say it to be okay with everyone and honest with ourselves above all - and sometimes procedural, small. We have told you in committees, Minister. We have heard and heard them from the institutions too. All right, from the opposition parties, you'd listen to it anyway, but also from the agencies. And the judges and lawyers and the new lawyers told you the same thing. There's no problem with this bill. So the title of the bill does not reflect these changes that you have in this bill. And what surprises me, Minister, is that this government for what it does has a motto: 'We do it for your own good'. We're bored, we don't want our best anymore. That's not what the Greek people want, how do we do it? You work primarily for the banking institutions, for the fund, for the strong ones. Where's the ordinary Greek citizen? You've written him where there's no ink. He's agitating, and he's finally got no money to go to lawyers. Most of you here are legal and you know how much an appeal costs, you know how much it costs more than a step from the court of appeal, from the court of appeal in the Marios Ice. A fortune. Where will the man who gets 500 and 700 euros, Minister? It's never gonna go. That's how most of them lose their homes. That's how they lose everything, and that's how the trials get lost. One, one, put things in place. First of all, the proposed amendments concerning the inclusion of the provision of electronic means in various provisions are most often necessary. It's over and out. However, when digitising and in particular on the issue of auctions, there is the big problem and we can see it. Look at what you've done, Minister, to understand what I'm saying in work to be. Tell me what's changed in two years to the administration of justice. Change of the Criminal Code twice and third.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u136	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u137	Yeah, I say twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u138	Oh, you mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u139	Like this. Twice. And here comes the third time, I know what I'm saying. Change the organic law on the Court of Auditors. Change the Code of Judicial Officers. Change of family law in the Civil Code. I would therefore like to say here and we have stressed that you have made the world more confused by this law of conscientiousness. Acceleration for applications of the highest debts of the Katseli Act. It obliges their debtors to withdraw bank confidentiality on the platform and the banks now know everything about each citizen. Single procedural text for the Court of Auditors. Therefore, amendments to provisions which either regulate secondary issues or clearly facilitate credit institutions. Where's the rapid administration of justice? Mrs Giannakopoulou said so, and she is a law-abiding lawmaker, like most of the lawyers here. The new tactical one is determined one and a half years after the end of the hundred days. Be careful now, you have now done ninety and the decision is made three years later. Am I wrong? I've lived up to these things in infinite trials I've been accused of. When the new tactical ones are identified two years after the end of the hundred days - after two years, then a total of four years - if that is what you call a rapid political trial, Minister, then it will be fine. If we hurt ten days there and solved the problem, what can I say? I know the result and the objective is one. The citizen finds his right to be fair and fast. If he has it! Convict it if it has to be convicted. Government provisions on provisions. You said nomadic committees from technocrats, etc. Good, technocrats, professors, lawyers. Just citizens have you brought to legislators? A single citizen sits there, as a representative of society, to say the real problems. Because here, those involved in the profession - and I do not blame anyone, I am telling you, because you are looking at me a little strange, Mr Lappa - it is a bit of your fault. And you have a share of responsibility, as is the judges' fault, as is the professors' fault. All teachers are now. Every piece of shit gets out there, he's doing the professor and he's talking about his crap in the morning or in the evening. People are crazy in all things. We have to be more reasonable. To listen to the ordinary Greek citizen, the pulse of society. That's why we're here. We are not here to support syndicate methods. Let me move on because the time is running out. I told you that there were some things that we will see in the articles and whether they have to be voted on will be voted on. Forced execution. This is where we come to the junk. I won't tell what the forced execution is. The simple world that listens to us and we should help him when he has a confiscation of mobile or immovable property in the hands of third parties, such as banks, notice what is going on in the difference. The reintroduction of the article, because you said that you reintroduced Article 938 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which had the law of SYRIZA of Law No.4335, is concerned with suspending enforcement. I tell you it's pretextual, and I'll tell you why. Here you have two paragraphs. Paragraph 1 states that at the request of the opposing party, i.e. the debtor, I say it simply for people to understand it, it can be ordered to suspend the enforcement of a confiscation if the court considers that this action will cause irreparable damage. Here I want to tell you, Minister, in a parentheses that what every man who wants to see in court to find his right is to go in front of his natural judge, go to speak with the judge, go see him, because the person reveals a lot, say that he is right and justifiable. Now, with this thing here, what did we do? That's why I'm telling you we went the other way. We left the courtroom to see the judge man, the citizen and only to write. What does he see? He takes a piece of paper, takes the testimonies, does not see the witnesses or anything, reads, is also tired, he is also at home in the afternoon relaxed and says, "Oh, right, the lawyers, the grand lawyers who compose the books of the banks" etc. So, then, the poor guy has a young, infinite lawyer, they put the other bulky lawyers, the big lawyers, and they win the trials. That's why I'm telling you. So this is in paragraph 1 for securities. In paragraph 2, which refers to immovable property, the suspension shall be requested by means of a legal instrument, without suspending the progress of execution. In other words, there will be another person who will have no money in the courts and at the same time will continue to seize and auction and will be electronic. He won't get hampered, Mr. Constantinidis. He will lose his home without taking it, and then the court curator will come and tell him "Sir, the house doesn't belong to you, come out". Not just that, Minister. I will say that again, because you have explained it, but I am left in my mind. You'll get his books now. Now - it says - it is compulsory to take the books to protect the books. Watch out. You take him out of his house, send him to the bench. Let him and any book read at least spend his time. That's simple logic, that's how the citizen thinks. Since I have no more time to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the courts and the legal theory are not static, but are enriched by dialogue and altered according to social developments. The problems of the Greek people in recent years have been very well known. He lost everything, lost work, lost dignity, lost wages, he stayed on the road after all, and we shouldn't charge him any more weights. The Greek Solution, faithful to what it has told the world before entering the House, is voting against this, since it is another bill, Minister, which does not really solve the problems of political trial and does not respond primarily to the title it has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u140	Until the Step is cleared, I would like to say something that has been pushing me since last night, because I now listen to the experts - I am not an expert - about the problems of Greek justice. There's enough of that. Still, he's standing high. I am referring to what I heard yesterday in the reports on the justice of a country that wants to enter the European Union. I am referring to neighbour Albania, which - it says - after three years of secret investigations concluded that Katsifas killed himself and was not murdered. And he wants to tell the European Union. After three years of secrets - I repeat - investigations. Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed draft law, which is introduced by the Ministry of Justice and which we are discussing today, is, in theory, aimed at substantially improving the quality of the justice system in our country, a purpose which is stated to be achieved through the proper functioning of the political trial by applying and using all modern technologies. The arrangements proposed stem from the results of the legislative reform, which were carried out by No.4335/2015 and No. 4055/2012. The legislation under discussion intends to improve the day-to-day judicial practice and, in the long term, optimise the quality of the justice system, thereby achieving the achievement of legal certainty. It is worth noting that comments on the bill made by many bodies, such as the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, which formally requested its participation in the Legislative Committee, which did not accept the Ministry, while excluding all judicial associations from the legislators. I think we can all draw our conclusions on this. I will start a brief overview of the problematic points of the bill from the second article introducing the pilot trial, an institution for which there are strong reservations. They have said so to the committee beforehand. We were also transferred by the institutions to the hearing of the bodies within the committee. It is an institution which raises problems both in terms of compatibility with the diffuse and indirect control of the constitutionality of laws, as well as in terms of control of the constitutionality itself, since the pilot trial comes in the way it is introduced - many Members have said so, we will not get tired of saying so - from the outset, a constitutional court which does not exist in our own system and is clearly opposed to the provisions of Articles 87(2) and 93(4) of the Constitution. At the same time, it is certain that we will have a series of hundreds of unfounded requests for early intervention, creating a new field of judicial crisis, that of the three-member committee, which should answer justifiably the conditions that make or not any question of general interest which has consequences for a vast circle of people. We also believe that, in addition to the several technical failures that this provision has at legislative level, if it is to be adopted and finally adopted, it will cause many further problems. Moving on, I go to Article 8 amending Article 179 of the Code of Civil Procedure and dealing with partial offsetting of costs and in the event of reasonable doubt as to the outcome of the trial. It is a provision which, in many ways, moves in the right direction, as it gives way to the court when a case of its nature created in the party who reasonably lost the conviction that he had the right to judicial protection. Article 63. We believe that the deadline for the exercise of the application so long as five days before the auction, but especially now, will pose a great deal of problems during the trial, as the time for processing the case is too small, especially for the quality and type of cases to be judged. Article 11. At the preliminary stage of the proceedings until the submission of the motions, Mr.4335/2015 included only procedural actions by the parties and no intervention by the court at all. If one reads Article 232 of the Code of Civil Procedure carefully now, it can immediately be ascertained that any legal actions provided for in the preliminary ruling require the party to make such a request, and the court is not automatically involved. However, this is an article which, even today, cannot be applied, even if the application is made by the party, because at this stage there is no addressee of the applications the party will make and this is the case as the composition of the court to which that provision refers, i.e. the President of the Court of First Instance or the Judge of the Court of First Instance or the Peace Court, has not yet been designated but is determined after the case-file has been closed, as is provided for in Articles 237 and 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Article 12. With the proposed provision, the legislator intervenes unjustly in us in parts of the law, which have had little practical problems, effectively complicating the procedure and making arrangements, in particular, in the process of evidence that will lead to a significant delay in the adoption of decisions. In particular, the provision that for the calculation of the date for submission of proposals the last day of service is a matter that will make it even more difficult to manage the pleadings for secretaries and lawyers, thus multiplying the margins of error. At the same time, there is a risk that we will have a series of dismissals or as an irresponsible or unfounded event which, together with the extension of the imposition of a judicial mark and the recog­nitions of jurisdiction of a multi­faceted court with certainty will lead to a serious burden on the judicial protection of the parties. Therefore, both the evidence of service and the judicial record should provide for the possibility of using 227 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Article 13. Under Rule 38, which is now amended, the procedure for lodging and ordering intervention in appeals for trial and kidnappings remains as it was. It shall also be added in the case of incidental actions concluded by interpretative bodies. Thus, as a starting point, the time to submit the lawsuits for proposals, known for residence, is one hundred and twenty, and to the inhabitants of the outside or unknown one hundred eighty. However, we are concerned that as far as the way in which these parties are informed of the existence of pending proceedings is concerned, we do not think that the time allowed is enough, and that is why we should see how this can be dealt with and extended. Articles 24 and 25. According to the analysis of the effect of regulation accompanying the draft law under discussion, the proposed amendments to Articles 468 and 469 of the Code of Civil Procedure constitute a regulatory deviation from the new ordinary procedure of 4335. It was found that in cases in which proceedings are brought in accordance with the specific provisions of the Small Claims, the procedure until the adoption of a decision is significantly delayed, especially in the country's major pacifist courts or is in line with the regular procedure. In the new Articles 468 and 469, the procedure is progressed on the basis of the application, the reply of the defendant by a simple document - a plea and the contents thereof of the parties and the evidence submitted by them, while their presentation at the audience is limited to the possible provision of clarifications on all essential facts of the case. Article 44. Paragraph 3 of 683 stipulates that the peace hearings are exclusively responsible for the consent of or the removal of a mortgage attachment, a subparagraph which is amended as follows. Privileges shall also be responsible for registering or waiving a mortgage. So we see that two words are deleted, the word 'exclusive' and 'consensual'. We believe that they are extremely important, in particular, for the future of the cases and show precisely the will of the legislator, because it is no longer the court responsible only for any act of registration or withdrawal of pre-notifications, which is a given change that will lead to a lot of confusion and further problems both to lawyers and to the citizens. Article 46. It is an article which amends the sixth paragraph of 686 and rescinds the possibility of a reply orally during the debate on the main application. Once again, according to the analysis of the consequences of such an amendment, it is made for the purpose of security of the proceedings and the proper conduct of the proceedings. However - and I also told the committee, I repeat here - we believe that the procedure for interim measures, especially when it comes to cases relating, for example, to labour disputes, abuse, family violence, such as cases involving the possibility of an imminent risk, should be extremely simple and speedy, of course, in order to achieve the immediate treatment of such cases and certainly there should be no restrictions on the orality of the debate. Article 47 and provision for the participation of a secretary in the composition of the court and for the maintenance of practices in all matters of interim measures. We believe that it is moving in the right direction, as the existence of a secretary may, in fact, assist the work of the judge, not only at the stage of temporary judicial protection, but also at the time of the main action. Two main issues for Articles 61, 62 and 63. The first is the lawsuits. In the case of enforcement, based on a judicial decision or an order for payment against the decision made against the opposition, only appeals may be brought, and in other cases of the enforceable securities referred to in Article 904, paragraph 2, against the decision, issued on the opposition may be brought against all legal instruments other than the infringement of wildlife law. According to the explanatory statement, the abolition of the appeal when an enforceable title or a judicial decision or a order for payment has deprived the interpretation of Civil Law on a fundamental legal aid from the highly critical case law of the Ice Bay through which legal certainty is achieved. However, it is certain that the new regulation will lead to excessive and irreversible delays in the implementation process, especially in cases where the judiciary engaging from a judicial decision as has already been the case before a diagnostic trial. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Second point, re-establishment of the possibility of suspending execution, with the exception of seizing immovable property in indirect execution and in dematerialised property. In conclusion, in Article 64 on the delivery or performance of a child, we have said so from the outset, we consider it problematic that the judge-in-law may either confirm or even establish by means of a report the act of obstruction. Even if it is amended, as the majority rapporteur said, it will still be done, we consider it to be a step that will give great authority, but also powers to the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by pointing out that the New Democracy's attempt to defend the interests of banks and predators' money against our fellow citizens, particularly the weakest and most indebted ones, is clear in the draft law under discussion, and that is why, as we have said from the outset, we will vote against it in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u142	Mr Karagunis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, historically, in Greece, the legislator wanted the changes in the basic codes of our legal practice to be made uniform by a special procedure, and not by a fragmented procedure, because precisely in their codes and regulations there are various questions of law and social security, first of all legal certainty, the rapid administration of justice, the need for effective protection, the protection of the procedural rights and freedoms of citizens, the effective administration of the law and, lastly, the validity of the state itself. Because it is the state that, in the name of the Greek people through the institution of independent justice, gives justice and justice. So in the changes to the Code of Civil Procedure proposed by this bill, and the Minister can see the synergy of all the above questions, although not necessarily equitable. And the reason is that these demands are not always as strong. Because, for example, the question of effective administration of justice cannot be strong in a country which, in general, the citizen and rightly so, feels that justice is actually being given, justice is being given. Why? Because - and I say this as a lawyer and as a man who has served in the Ministry of Justice, but also as a citizen who knows what is going on in our country - in Greece we have good judges, we have independent judges, we have a justice, which gives justice, but we do not care elsewhere. We're stuck in infrastructure, in the speed of justice. And that's right, Minister. And I want to say it because as you have now, I have had very much experience of the situation. We have unfortunately lost five years of delays and postponements and did not run at the speed of light, which the electronicisation of justice had to run. The second phase should have been over and we completed the first phase, and now you are going to go ahead with the SADS, that is, the SADS of politics and criminal proceedings. And I really want to congratulate you, to congratulate you at the Ministry for the effort you're making. And precisely these issues and the issues are reflected in the regulation of the bill, which we are discussing, and its philosophy is clearly correct because judicial effectiveness is not just a legal issue, but in modern societies, at least western ones, judicial efficiency is a factor, which also affects the state of the country's economy in terms of quality of life, but also in the general picture of development, which is a matter of concern. And I would say rather human development to use the exact term of the United Nations. And to give an example - because there was an earlier debate and the Minister referred to this - where we are in the reliable economic indicator of the Heritage Foundation and based on 2021 figures and on the category of judicial efficiency, our country achieves an indicator around '55' with an excellent '100'. That means above the average, but of course with a very wide margin of improvement. And in order to make it more understandable on a comparative basis, the countries that excellence '90' levels are first Australia and Singapore, with '80 level indicators' being Israel, the Baltic countries, namely Lithuania, Estonia, but also the Scandinavian, Denmark and Sweden. And then we have the '70' scale, where we have a number of countries that I think everyone will agree are those which we call advanced societies and economies of the West, namely the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan and the Netherlands, and Germany and France. And all this shows that Greece's '55' must do a great deal, especially as I said at the speed of the administration of justice and the meeting of justice with technology, which, as I have already said, we would have achieved if we had not lost so much valuable time in previous years, which now, of course, is being promoted by the Ministry of Justice. We'd be much higher than that. But I think that the European countries in general also have a long way to go, to reach an excellent level of judicial efficiency, to reach the Australian level ratings, as I have said before. So the changes discussed in the Code of Civil Procedure are philosophically part of this need for higher quality justice services, because - I repeat - and thankfully, what we care about is not the quality of our judges or the quality of the judicial work - this is an important conquest - but technical issues, which are in our hands to resolve, and that is what the Ministry of Justice does, obviously - as in all the public sector - with the beast of bureaucratic logic, which is also emphasizing in the area of justice. However, the bill realises that this search for greater speed in the administration of justice and strengthening the technical infrastructure of its work must not end up - and it is important - by reducing the procedural rights and freedoms of citizens. That is to say, if speeding up is important, but it is not an end in itself and at the expense of such rights and freedoms. And this balance is clearly reflected in this bill, because, on the one hand, we do have changes, which enhance the speed of justice, such as the extension of the pilot trial and in political affairs, the shortening of deadlines for submission of proposals and the definition of fairness in specific civil proceedings, and the provisions, which allow the use of technology for remote procedures, but also the election of the witness process, which is by nature of easy abuses, as, of course, a number of changes in the area of enforcement with a view to their implementation to be linked to the way in which economic life operates. Of course, there can be no mechanism which does not guarantee the final outcome of a process of enforcement by continuous, mostly barren auctions, at the time that there are genuinely economic interests of all the parties involved. And that makes the bill and the arrangements for reducing the price of supply in such procedures, which is happening in many other countries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I'm going to need a little more time. And because there was a special report about the pilot trial, I would like to make a comment. There have been crises of unconstitutionality and that the pilot trial helps the financially powerful. Let's get this straight. With regard to this regulation, this is not a regulation on how to award justice, but an excellent case where our judicial system has to deal with complex legal issues. They shall defend the application of the provision of three supreme judicial officers, who shall be well aware of the fact that the term of the discriminating legal issue of general interest is fulfilled in a case. So the reference made to unconstitutionalism, but also to the financial powerful, let me say, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable. For those who claim it, they argue that the Areopagites will choose to implement this law and the provisions of the pilot trial on the basis of a criterion of service of financial interests. I do not think it is serious to hear that in this House, and it is good not to repeat such objections. You must criticise a provision at a legal level - and I would, of course, be happy to hear the criticism at this level - and also say and insult judicial officers and the independence of justice. Because I have no time, Madam President, I will close here. I think it is clear why all these parties should vote for these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Today the political world, friends, companions and acquaintances salute the brilliant scientist, man and comrade Taso Kourakis. And I would like to express our grief with a phrase by Dionysian Solomon: 'He also flew for the mere harmony of the heavens.' Mr President, I do not want to have an opposition, and I do not want to have a sterile opposition to an issue, which concerns a code, which, Minister, many times you called them 'Holy Gospels', and that is what it is. And I think that the 'day gospels' must first respect them with religious devotion by the government, the state, the Greek state as the rule of law, as a favoured state. And I have said, Minister, many times that the more intervention the Greek state is doing to the bodies of codes, the larger, almost through, are the wounds to the bodies of codes. Because a code has a life expectancy of forty, fifty, sixty, seventy years and only when conditions change dramatically - social, political and economic - it has an obligation to intervene to adapt certain provisions to the change of these conditions, which prevail and which differ as time passes. After all, the case-law of the Supreme Courts is changing in accordance with the Treaties. That's a general rule. Secondly, in all the bills, Mr Minister, I complain on behalf of the country's legal world, particularly the lawyers. You do not consult the judicial body, which is experiencing on a daily basis the award of justice to all its kinds, to the political trial and to the criminal trial - I leave the administrative trial because it is another subject for the diagnosed trial and other criteria on which the administrative trial takes place. But look today, you bring a bill and you have all the legal world across. You are across the judiciary, you are across the judiciary and you are facing legal schools. Is it possible to thrive, Mr Karagunis, a colleague and former Minister of Justice, who know what this thing means, a law that modifies a code to the contrary to the body which will be called upon to apply it? Does he have any chance of success? And why, since 1927, the first legal conference was held on the one hand, to speed up the political trial - that is, for a century now - why are the efforts of the Greek state constantly failing to achieve it? Let me tell you why. Why does the Greek state not listen to the actors in the legal community, those who are called upon to implement and implement the amendments and interventions of the state? Codes have a life of at least half a century. In this period we have a dramatic change in the conditions of law. Anyway. And I would say a second complaint: you are bringing in a Code of Civil Procedure, which is essentially new, which has key interventions and Minister, on 18 August, you put it into consultation. It's summer. How will the legal community be activated, with legal schools closed with courts closed with legal associations on vacation and stay only two days in September? Take it into consideration. And that's not all. I have sat down and seen in all the bills you have brought, Mr Ministers of Justice, that you have not consulted at all in a broad time with the bodies of the legal community. And that's a problem. I don't know if he's obsessed. However, a hostile attitude is towards the bodies of the legal community. And now we're going to the Code of Civil Procedure. I ask the lawyers, how much time, ladies and gentlemen, do you think we need a serious legislative effort to have a uniform, coherent and effective text of the Code of Civil Procedure? How long do you think he should investigate, study and propose a legislative committee? A month? A year? Two years? To give a symbolism, I say, infinite time. I don't know how much time the Legislative Committee has worked, Minister, to bring this project in. And I don't know whether the committee is entirely matched by the proposals of the bill. In any case, I overlook it. General position of the speaker and my party and lawyers, Mr Karagunis. You have heard the plenary session of lawyers, you have heard the judicial associations, you have heard the legal schools. Finally, the time has come in Greece in the Code, Mr. Kotsira, Civil Procedure. Make a process. Why does it now serve to separate the tactical process from the relevant procedures when the latter have fully succeeded in the institution? On the seat, the proposals are being examined and we have a decision taken as quickly as possible. Why should we have two procedures? Why should we have different deadlines for submitting proposals? Why would we have different deadlines? Doesn't that stir legal certainty? Doesn't it offend her? Doesn't that suit the parties? Isn't the law enforcement hurt? It does not tire and make it difficult for a proper judicial decision to be given. Mr Karaguni, because you have invoked these countries because they have taken effective initiatives, I have investigated it and I have to tell you that in all these countries there is the instrument as a rule and not as an exception. And I call the Ministry. Tell us from 2015 until today, mostly in these last two, three years, how many of the regular procedure cases we had ordered... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, I will take very little time, because you know we're talking about a code with thousands of articles. How many judicial decisions did he order reopening proceedings to examine a witness? The evidence says 0.5%. I mean, zero. So what's this bill doing today? It hereby validates and confirms to the status quo only the documentary procedure of the political trial. And give an explanation here. The draft law of 4355 was the conclusion of the low-floor committee, which took place throughout 2014 on the basis of the government of Samaras, Mr Karagunis - you were also a Minister of Justice, you know - and indeed Mr Low-Ferry wrote the explanatory statement. Do you know what the reason - he says - for regular justice, which brought Articles 237 and 238 to abolish the control instrument? Listen to get your hair up. Because, he says, a operative cause as a rule of delays, Mr Kotsira, what is he, you say? What do you think it is? Here is what the explanatory statement says: it is the excessive amount of time consumed in the examination of witnesses in the process of evidence. That in a rule of law, in a favoured state. Explanation of reasons, please, of 4335. And because I have lived an article for an article, Mr. Kotsira, that you are younger than how this finding was imposed. At the same time, we had an alternative committee under the former State Secretary, Mr Kranis. Then, in 2014-2015, and he also drafted an alternative proposal, which came to Parliament in 2015, but did not agree that the institutions should change what is in line with the proposals of Mr Kranis' detailed proposal. And because Mr Karagunis knows what troikas, institution, and memorandum keeping mean, I have the following to say: today we do not have a memorandum, Mr Tsiara and Mr Kotsira, why are you bringing in a memorial type of regulation? Would you like a suggestion to close? Today, if you would like, Mr Ministers, to put weight to the concept of the rule of law in favoured states, you would do two things: first, listen to the bodies of the legal community. Secondly, remove the distortions of Law4335 one of which is the greatest discount in the last century in the Code of Civil Procedure. The abolition of the witness means of proof.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u146	Didn't you vote for it, Mr. Lappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u147	I'm telling you, Minister. Why don't you take it today? That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u148	Say you don't want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u149	Do you not understand that the states mentioned by Mr Karagunis have the witness as a rule and only as an exception to documents, that is, by correspondence in the course of the trial? I propose to you, Mr Kotsira, and listen to it, which is valid throughout Europe. Has the rapporteur - judge or judge when he is single - when he goes and says 'debate' has already studied the file and has he decided, this case will be discussed and dealt with by means of documents or by means of a special procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u150	You need to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u151	I shall conclude, Madam President. Listen to the huge deficit, to have deadlines, to have statements, to have suggestions, to go and to say the judge is being discussed and at the time the case is being discussed he has no idea what the case is and has not been involved at all in the examination of the file. When will he do it? When the parties are removed, when the debate is over, when they leave the court and a few months later when they start studying the file to make a decision. It does not apply anywhere, in no country, not the European Union, the Council of Europe. This would be the lifting of the emblematic unbelievable distortions of L.4335. And I close with a phrase, Madam President. I'm going to 950. It 'confirms' with 'confirms' it has no difference. I'd say, listen, Mr. Kotsira: What is he doing according to the Code of Justice, the judicial curator in blocking communication?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Comrade, please, you have to shut down. You're already in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u153	I shall conclude, Madam President. We're talking about a code of a thousand articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u154	What am I supposed to do? That's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u155	I'm asking for a second tolerance. What's he doing, Mr. Kotsira, the judicial curator with his code? It shall draw up a report on the incident, neither shall it establish nor confirm nor record. He shall draw up his report on the incident. This is the appropriate phrase. Check out the Code of Judicial Officers. To be consistent with what they say and what we say. And one last thing about provision 953. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the legal community, accept when we have a three thousand-year-old case-law wealth - not even a negative one - that has not been accepted by any court in that country that there can be no forced execution of what we call a natural person's spiritual treasure? Imagine confiscating the judiciary without an auction...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u156	Close it, please too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u157	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u158	You've been telling me for an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u159	...the doctoral thesis of a debtor and get her to sell it to a cultural club without auction, without any institutional guarantee? This is a discount and it is a discount, Mr Karagunis, of all the institutional guarantees for the search for essential truth. If we want the essential truth we cannot find it and we cannot have the right decisions with such bills. I'm sorry to say that, but unfortunately that's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I will repeat again that the speaking time is seven minutes and there will be a special tolerance and a little more time. Mr President, in the almost twelve minutes you will be almost there is the time for the parliamentary representatives. Please. There is a problem that does not exist. You see I have the relative tolerance, but our speeches must be more concise. Mr Petsas has the floor now to support Amendment No 1096/86 from 8-10 to 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to Amendment 1056/86 from 8-10-2021 it contains four articles which facilitate municipal authorities in their work. The first article deals with the action of harmonizing family and working life. It is addressed to all sensitive social groups in need of increased protection and its successful implementation is absolutely essential. However, this cannot be achieved unless there is a timely payment of staff employed in action. Therefore, there is a need to ensure the smooth and uninterrupted payment of the salary and insurance contributions of staff employed under a fixed-term private-law contract to the LAGs and their legal persons, who are bodies or structures involved in that action. The regulation shall achieve this objective and ensure the smooth and uninterrupted payment of the salary and insurance contributions of that staff. I would also like to say that this will cover all types of regular or exceptionally unskilled revenues of the LAGs and their legal persons or through a grant for this purpose from the specific support programme under Article 71 of Law 4509/2017 so that there are no delays. With regard to Article 2, I would like to say the following. According to Article 97A of Law 3852/2010 on 1 October 2021, each municipality should have set up and operated a HSY building service. In view of the continuing consequences of the coronary pandemic, this has not been possible for some of them. Therefore, there is an absolute need for a short extension. In fact, since Article 31(2) of Law 4495/2017 provides for the adoption of a Presidential Decree setting out the conditions for the operation and organisation of the PSOs and the criteria for their minimum staff and for the sake of legal certainty, it is necessary to provide for the abolition of the regulation of Law 3852/2010 by the adoption of the Presidential Decree. In view of the above, the notified arrangement is extended for a period of one quarter and up to 1-1-2022 the time limit for the establishment and operation of HSOs in each municipality in accordance with Article 97A of Law 3852/2010. The arrangement is valid from 31-9-2021. Article 3: The appraised provision, as the effects of the coronary pandemic continue to exist, is also extended for a period of one quarter and up to 1-2022 the provision of administrative support to municipalities of the same regional unit by the municipality of the regional unit or by another nearer municipality with a logistics capacity and staff in order to exercise the additional responsibilities attributed to the municipalities under Article 54 of Law 3852/2010. It should be noted that, in accordance with the existing provision on 1 October 2021, the municipalities had to exercise the additional powers conferred on them by this Article. It is therefore necessary to grant a short extension of the time limit for the provision of administrative support in order to ensure that any operational gaps are avoided in the exercise of the powers exercised to date. Article 4: The recent extreme natural phenomena, caused by climate change, have shown that for the successful response of the consequences and to ensure the proper and effective functioning of the municipalities in the areas affected and declared in an emergency of civil protection, it is necessary to define unpaid anti-couptors, which will ensure that the required projects, works and actions are coordinated and monitored. In addition, the term of nomination of an anti-corporate in such exceptional cases must be in line with the time of validity of the relevant decisions to declare these areas in an emergency. Therefore, by assessing and ensuring the orderly and efficient functioning of the municipalities, the possibility of setting up up up to two unpaid anti-couptors to coordinate and monitor the development of all the required projects, work and actions during the period of validity of the decision to declare the region in an emergency of civil protection is envisaged. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u163	Madam President, I would like to ask a detailed question about the amendment to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u164	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u165	Because, first of all, there is a positive aura in the proposed bills, but I would like you to clarify, because the devil is hiding in the details, in paragraph 2(b) of Article 97, as amended, that is, the second article proposed by you, when you say: ‘In case 1, the staff of all kinds are counted independently of his employment relationship, including the staff referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 4 of Law 4674/2020’, which services are you implying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u166	I'll answer you. There was this provision and we do not amend it. We repeat precisely the provision as it existed in the previous piece of legislation in accordance with the well-known methodology for drawing up the amendments. We are not changing anything in the specific article you have seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u167	It was a clear question, Minister. I am not in the hands of which services are concerned with the staff referred to in Article 4(2). That's what I want you to answer. I have a clear question. In my position, because I am a parliamentary representative today, I will give our opinion. But I want to know why I can't look into it. That's what I'm saying. What are the services? Is it the services of the municipalities? Are these public-law legal services? Are they third? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. The bill we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, bears a title that starts with the 'fast political trial', and I wonder what the end of the day is. The individual amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure or the introduction of the political trial to civil justice as provided for in Article 2; Because I fear very much that the pilot trial cancels the purpose of the legislator who is to speed up the political trial, as I will have the opportunity to point out afterwards. With regard to the individual problematic points of the bill, such as Article 3, which limits even more the principle of the orality of the political trial, Article 61 which reintroduces the suspension of enforcement only on mobile and not on immovable property, and Article 68 on the automatic reduction mechanism of the value of the property to 65% without interfering with the court, if previous auctions have already been declared barren. In all of this, a thorough review has been carried out by the special buyer of the Change Movement, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou. So let me turn to the point, which almost unilaterally left the debate at committee meetings and which is no more than the introduction of the pilot trial with Article 2 of the bill. You have repeatedly claimed that Article 2 is essentially trying to copy the successful practice of the pilot trial established by Law 3900/2010, a law which was passed on to a PASOK government. However, there are a number of important differences. As we read in recitals (3900/2010) to the deposit of this law, the Council of State's practice of 4/2010, with which the court had called for a series of changes to speed up the administration of justice to the highest court. Many of these points were subsequently adopted by the government. Do you satisfy a corresponding request from the Ice Arrow? Because at committee meetings we have repeatedly heard you describe the needs of justice, but we have not heard it speak for justice itself. Secondly, the lower court may refer the court question to the Areo Ice. There is no corresponding provision in Law 3900/2010. If, for the need for the debate, we assume that the referral by a lower court to a higher court is legitimate, taking into account the corresponding mechanism in force at the level of Union law, the fact that the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay may simply refer a legal matter is extremely problematic, and this has to do with both the matter of private disputes and the constitutional position of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. The differences in public law, which were said in this Chamber and in the committee, differ from those in private, and not only because in the first case one party is always the same, the public, but also because the material of the private differences is so multi-formal and case-law, which I cannot understand how they can be grouped under a 'pilot' of the Ice Bay plenary. There is a risk that the judge at the Ice Bay will assess that a legal issue is of general interest to coincide with the corresponding assessment made by the government. I am not saying that this is going to happen. Unfortunately, however, the way in which the leadership of the Supreme Courts is appointed by the Ministerial Council through paragraph 5 of Article 90 of the Constitution always leaves room for such assessments. And I would remind you here that, in essence, in your proposals for revision you did not insist on the revision of the provision, which instructs the government to appoint the supreme courts. There is also an unprecedented regulation of private relations in a wide range of cases where there is an imbalance of power between the parties. I fear that the most powerful party will seek direct recourse to the mechanism of the political trial before the Ice Bay, making available all the resources necessary for the successful outcome of its case in contrast to the least powerful party. We must take serious account of the following: in the case of the administrative proceedings, the mechanism of Law 390 000 has tried to protect the commander and the unjustified exercise of rights of defence on the part of the public. It is reasonable to recognise that the governor may make his difference with the State before the Council of State. In the case of the political trial, however, the counterparty in a private relationship is very often the weakest and most powerful one to seek to use this option unilaterally. Third, Article 2 of Law No 3900 provides for an appeal before the Council of State in the event that an administrative court determines a provision of a formal anti-constitutional law or contrary to another super-legislative provision. There is no similar provision here, and this further outlines the true content and the true targeting of Article 2 of the bill. The existing provision of Article 563(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure stipulates that the part of the Ice Bay which it holds is obliged to refer the case back to plenary if its decision on the appeal refuses to implement a law as unconstitutional. There is, therefore, a serious interpretative problem, because the existing legislative framework refers to an issue of unconstitutionality at the level of part of the Ice Bay. What if such reference is made by a single Court of First Instance? It is therefore introduced from the back door another element of concentration of constitutionality control, although it is foreseen in the Constitution that it is diffuse and incidental. Of course, the system of monitoring the constitutionality of laws in our country beyond the diffusion includes elements of concentration, such as, for example, the provision of Article 100(1) for the concentration of control over the Supreme Special Court or Article 100(5) and finally the mechanism of Law 3900 on administrative disputes. However, if the additional mechanism with this bill is added, the remaining ones from the diffusion to the centralised control of the constitutionality of the laws are shifted to an excessive degree, and this is a problem. It is ironic that the control of the constitutionality of the laws began in Greece by a decision of the Ice Arion on 23-1897. All of this makes Article 2 problematic at constitutional level, making it practical, since it is almost certain that the accumulation of thousands of pending cases before the Ice Bay will take a decisive delay in the administration of justice, even though the bill provides for it to be accelerated. In particular, in disputes of private law, the administration of justice must go to the closest to the citizen. That is something, Madam President, often forgotten. We forget the democratic nature of the diffuse system of control of the constitutionality of laws, that it can in any trial, any party to raise the objection of constitutionality. This is a deeply democratic part of our culture, which in this particular case is at great risk with the provision of Article 2 being circumvented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u170	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u171	Could I take the floor to clarify something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u172	Of course, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u173	This staff is indeed a staff of the municipalities. And there is this case also a personal case, which is occupied by the municipalities and Otto A' in this case when the provision was initially adopted, exercises the powers of the construction services in accordance with Article 95(3) of Law No.3852/2010, by means of a programme contract for their administrative support for issues relating to the competences of those services with the Hellenic Local Development and Local Government, the Development Agency and the networks of municipalities, i.e. those that can be involved in the implementation of the harmonisation programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the value and importance of a judicial system, which is organised and operated in independence another such value, is that this judicial system is capable of responding to quality and reasonable time when it comes to resolving disputes that it receives each time. It is well known that justice which is far too late to be attributed is in fact tantamount to a denial of justice. And I don't think anyone in this Chamber is satisfied with the rhythms attributed to justice in our country. It is, of course, certain that important steps have been taken in recent years and I would say over time from all the governments, but unfortunately we are far from the desired result. In order to give Greece the necessary time to resolve urban and commercial affairs is approximately sixty-seven days, according to 2019 figures, i.e. about two years, when, for example, in France, it is four hundred thirty and in Germany, two hundred twenty. And the primary administrative courts in our country have the most outstanding cases in all the countries of the European Union. In addition, we have the lowest percentages of judges who serve to the first degree from all the countries of Europe. We have one of the worst proportions of judges per judge and at the same time a large number of lawyers and one of the largest number of courts. It is therefore clear that the solution to improving the speed of the administration of justice is neither in the number of judges nor in the number of courts. The solution must be found in the rational distribution of staff, in the improvement of logistical infrastructure and, of course, in the simplification and digitisation of judicial procedures. I think that on these two issues, the last two in particular, it is called upon to respond to the draft law which we are called upon to vote on today. I think that in a very honest manner and with prudence the ministers, but also our rapporteur, in fact, have been placed on the ground that this is not a radical revision of the Code of Civil Procedure, which was passed by the SYRIZA Government in 2015, but a planned and targeted update of provisions, which the judicial practice itself has shown to be problematic. The regrettable thing is that the criticism heard by the Opposition little touches on the core of the real problems of the judiciary, which are related to the speed of justice. It disputes the most important acquis which we have as a Greek state and society in the field of justice, which is no more than its independence. And that is what SYRIZA, for example, does when claiming that the introduction of the institution of the pilot trial into the Areo Ice is done to serve the interests of millions and banks. Because when you claim that the decisions of the Ice Bay will affect our weak fellow citizens who have pending judicial cases with banks, what is essentially questionable is not the institution of the pilot trial, but the independence of the judges. Ladies and gentlemen, in attempting to make a legitimate criticism of a new institution for which, however, we have the assurance that it can lead to a more rapid administration of justice, you undermine the core of the rule of law, which is the impartiality of justice. And those of us who have exercised a fighting law many times have encountered the phenomenon of adopting contradictory decisions on the very same issue. A common example of labour disputes. Two actions that are separately raised by two employees in the same company, with the same employment relationship, often have a different effect. The question here is: Is the suspicion of injustice or not? So what do we want to achieve with the pilot trial? Firstly, the uniform application of the law and, secondly, the exclusion of any hint of unequal treatment. Most of all, however, we want to save what is possible, namely to save thousands of our fellow citizens from the suffering, insecurity and economic bleeding caused by the long-lived process of justice at all its levels. Ladies and gentlemen, the same needs which imposed the introduction of the pilot trial in the field of administrative justice also exist in the field of civil justice. In the case, for example, of loans granted to a Swiss franc, the first judgments of the Courts of First Instance shall be raised in 2010. Let me remind you that the decisions of the Ice Bay were in 2019. That is, for a decade, dozens of similar cases have been accumulated throughout the country that have unfortunately led to dozens of contradictory decisions, with what this certainly means in terms of the quality of the judicial work, for which we are supposed to be fighting today in this Chamber. Any reasonable reservations made by bodies and colleagues concerning, in particular, technical and procedural matters, I think that they can be dealt with if necessary. But the interest of Greek society and justice is not to miss the opportunity that is presented to us today. For all these reasons, I urge you to put aside any micro-political unfinishedities and contribute in a productive way, so that at the end this Chamber, all the wings of this House, can vote in such a way that we can pass a message right to Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kocket has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the bill, a few words about the government's final fiasco in northern Evia, but also in eastern Thessaly. The lasting excuse is the time. That's enough! Winter is predicted to be difficult. The excuse that a lot of water fell isn't enough. Rapid political trial. Sounds good to be real. Justice, ladies and gentlemen, must be done diligently. Part of this diligence is the speed. In this bill two, I believe, are the main issues on which we have very serious objections. And I would remind you at this point that it is indeed with provisions of the bill that some injustices of Law No.4331 of 2015 are corrected and it would be good, as Mr Lappas said, to correct other injustices. Pilot trial. In our country as an institution is from 2012 and is in administrative law. Applicable and applicable. But we have very serious objections: first of all, political objections. All these cases, ladies and gentlemen, have a political and social time. They have an impact on society, because they have something to do with people. The government of political responsibility is denied, not only for its administration, but also for the resolution of these issues and only for justice. If you notice, ladies and gentlemen, many colleagues from the opposition, from all the parties, said they would be hurt by borrowers or contractors. I will try to interpret what colleagues say they will be affected. Because the judge's job is to judge typically and strictly. For example, for borrowers in the Swiss franc, it will, on the one hand, judge the financial damage, which is the subject of a particular number of people and, on the other hand, the 'closure' - if we want to introduce it into the financial system, the disruption of our national economy. Because I respect justice, I do not want to prejudge what grounds are appropriate and what will be decided. But there are legal objections. The citizen takes the opportunity to express to his natural judge, whether he is in Kozani, Larissa, or Katerini, the objection that this law is unconstitutional in this case. For us, the guaranteeing function of justice lies in the fact that the most remote court of peace is able to declare a law unconstitutional. So you deprive the citizens of this possibility and create from the back door a omen constitutional court, which is forbidden in accordance with the Constitution. The second main objection is the auctions. 83% of the tenants in our country in 2018 gave 40% of his rent, according to a EUROSTAT report. Today he gives 60% of the payroll. One will say: "And what does this have to do with auctions?" You celebrate that the real estate market is going very well, that prices have increased, that the real estate market is moving. You're celebrating. Question: In auctions who buy houses? Do they have or do they have? Why would 100% go to 65%? Why are you discounting him for buying houses and not giving incentives to new couples to buy houses? There's a new institution now. The most important thing to be done is to make sure that the European Which companies, who will these many bidders be? Shouldn't we at least know? I repeat. When the price falls from 100% to 80% and from 80% to 65% it means two things: Or that the banks to justify their reserves the first value of the properties have put it too high or you want to support the auctions and those who buy houses from the auctions. That is why a new housing policy is necessary. Give incentives not to those who buy, because anyway they have money from auctions. Give incentives to new couples to cover the great problem of the roof in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u179	I have to say, it's too many times when lawyers talk to me. I am not a lawyer, but I must say that today, listening to colleagues from the parties, but above all to what both the rapporteur of the Change Movement and George Kaminas have said, I imagine, from what we are discussing with George Mulkiotis, you will speak after them - you admire their knowledge and their accuracy on such matters of a legal nature. I shall confine myself to a few political comments, which relate to our attitude to the bill and the basic reasons on which we vote against it. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizen is now at the heart of many developments in his life. They literally overthrow the way and the living conditions. While developments in the economy, despite the development euphoria and government commotion, do not heal him from the problems, he has a governance against him, which constantly removes his fundamental rights to work, to equine, to safety, and as a result a ruthless future seems to await him. It would therefore be expected that one of a government that wants to be called modernist and reformist, would multiply rather than curtail the insecurity of the insurance margins that serve and safeguard and broaden rights rather than questioning and curtailing them. I think this is a general political remark in almost all the bills brought by the government. I come to this particular matter. Is the development process accelerating by the regulations of the bill? No one disagrees about the objective and need, as long as the main rights parties are not deprived of, is that the trials should not be discriminatory, so long as they can defend themselves at any time. I have to say that many of the provisions of the bill allow this process to proceed in a certain way and we would not have had any real objections to them. I now come to the essence of our main disagreement. As of 2015, in the political trial, living testimony to the evidence process was abolished and evidence was replaced by the jury attestations. The question is how the judge decides and whether this procedure constitutes a fair trial, when the truth is not proved through the testimony, when the judge will simply read documents to make decisions. I must say that I would expect a government with the experience of these years that it dares to abolish the ban on testimony in the hearing. You didn't. The burden from the application of the measure since 2015 may have been mitigated in the regional courts. In the big, however, as they are of Athens and Thessaloniki, the cases are stacked and the procedures are still extremely time-consuming. So I would say that here there is an atmosphere which is not cured by this legislation. I'm coming to the political trial now. Obviously, there is another administrative dispute in which the public and the provision of political affairs is a public one. First of all, this regulation raises issues of constitutionality. It undermines constitutional control of constitutionality by the civil courts. The centralised audit is inconsistent with the administrative tradition and constitutional acquis of the country. The Institution for Private Disputes thus does not apply to any other system in any other legal order. There can be no direct correlation between the procedure of the Council of State where the party is the public with that of the political affairs. The application in the field of Private Law and the involvement directly of the Ice Arena gives no real solution to the problem. Because there are thousands of differences, they cannot be levelled, they cannot function selectively, and it is not possible, in the end, to create a reciprocity on the basis of which they are essentially part of a common denominator which is different from one another. For example, actions for bank abuses. A decision can cause a body of others, against virtually impossible ones. The Ice Bay's involvement loads the supreme court with responsibilities and decisions that I don't know if at this time it's capable of lifting under what procedures. But I'll come to this at the end. I would say, then, that this process puts the weak one against the strong one, the one who takes the house into auction, the one who is arbitrarily sacked and asking for his fairness, the one who claims a fair solution to labour disputes. The parties shall be affected and shall be served by banks and interests. The most characteristic case is the auction process, which is only by assessment of a certified valuer and without judicial control, the essential decisions are taken, those which automatically transform this initial estimate from 100% to 80% and then to 65%. I'll get you an example. I have known from the past that I was in the Ministry of Rural Development and I know that thousands of farmers have actually promised their property, which can be sold at any time, to go to foreign hands. I don't say it in danger. This is going to happen. Large areas, large estates, small prices, easy for banks and auctions in the way you organize them, essentially for people to lose their property. For this reason alone, I believe that a bomb has entered the foundations of the country's judiciary. That is why we are voting against in principle. And one last comment. Justice, ladies and gentlemen, is the pillar in the institutional formation of democracy, a coordinate and independent authority. Changes have been made at times and changes have been made. Things have improved quite a bit. Other issues run out of time. One of these is really the unlimited time on the basis of which decisions are taken and there must be a drastic shrinkage of it. But always, Minister, I knew that all these changes, as long as I have lived and over the years I have dealt with politics, are in agreement, the recommendation and the positive decision and the contribution of the courts, judicial authorities and the legal world of the country, which always has complete knowledge and participation in how things can be improved in the best possible way. And I feel that the way you have brought this bill is a way that you do not actually use, does not accept the opinion and the refusal, if you will, to compose the views and suggestions that are in place so that it becomes more important, more substantial, more correct. In fact, while there are some positive arrangements, it is attempting to modernise in a way that you manage the institution as if you were working for justice itself, namely the Marble Ice itself. And I believe that it is the pretext of a shortening of time to get into another process that has been out of our country for many years and from this intervention in space. I would like you to have fun with these fears and tell us exactly how and what you will improve in your bill in order to get a right and positive character.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Minister for Finance now has the floor, Mr Stagioras, to place himself on Amendment 1098/88/8-10-2021. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Madam President. In essence, the amendment which I will be supporting has two sections. One section has interventions to support households and businesses from the adverse financial impact of the coronary pandemic and the second section has what the Parliamentary Representative of KINAL has said, a development sign. I'm starting with the first section. In the first section, what do we do? First of all for all the citizens who were regulated - a hundred and twenty doses - and who lost it in March 2020 to July 2021, it can relive this. Up to now they paid August or August and September, and now we put in October to facilitate even more of our compatriots. Therefore, basically, many of our compatriots who could not and were affected by the pandemic are revivaling regulations that had started before a pandemic. I would remind you that this is independent of the framework that exists for up to seventy-two doses for those affected in the pandemic. The second section is the famous ‘GEOFYRA 1’ and ‘GEFERRA 2’ programme. What are we doing here? Here, basically, we are legislating about what we committed to at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. It extends until the end of the year for natural persons. Thus, many natural persons will receive support, help not for nine months, for twelve months. And I want to say to you - to repeat, to be precise - that this is the first time that the state rewards consistency. In other words, for consistent borrowers affected by the pandemic, the state came and covered, with reduced rates each time, starting from 90%, the instalments of their loans. In other words, the state came, the state budget, and paid the loan instalments to citizens who were aware, but who were affected by the coronary pandemic. The corresponding figure for this category, for the last quarter, is 40%. We started from 90%, going down until the end of the year. For your information and obviously society, I want to tell you what the statistics are today. The statistics today are that in GEOFHY 1, i.e. in natural persons - GEOFHY 2, they are legal persons - seventy-five thousand six hundred sixty-six beneficiaries with EUR 210,000,000, and in GEOFER 2, which are business and free trade, ten thousand three hundred eighteen beneficiaries have been assisted with 141,7 million. In other words, within 2021 and two months in 2020 - but essentially within 2021 - the state budget paid EUR 352,000 to eighty-five thousand nine hundred seventy-four beneficiaries, covering a significant proportion of the instalments of their loans, information and not. This aid has not been given anywhere else in Europe. This scheme that has been very successful in Greece helps important households and businesses. So, in essence, we have been extending this for another three months with the amendment. With another article in the amendment - and I close the first section that is the short-term - it is essentially an explanatory regulation to remove potential legal dispute and clarify the provision in paragraph 8 of Article 16c of Law 3864/2010, in order to make it clear that the Financial Stability Fund is excluded from the obligation of the 2006 Law to submit a compulsory public proposal in the event of a direct or indirect acquisition of voting rights on behalf of shares, i.e. when it receives shares from the capitalisation of deferred tax claims. I will say this very simply: when someone has a significant proportion, more than 34%, he must make a public proposal for the rest of the percentage. Specifically for the CFSF from the past, from previous governments, when it is the recapitalisation product, it is not necessary, not required, no public proposal for the remaining percentage is foreseen. It shall be added here ‘... and when the FVC takes over shares from the capitalisation of deferred tax assets’. The second section, which is the second half of the bill, Mr Scandalidis, is precisely about the necessary creation of the conditions not just for the recovery of the economy but for the development of the economy. One of the tools that the Greek state has and was built with excellent coordination at European level is the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Here, therefore, is the aim of speeding up and improving - by surpassing time-consuming procedures and obstacles - the implementation of strategic projects, which are going to produce results of significant intensity in the overall economy and added value for both the country and the citizens. We therefore move on, through the provisions of the second section of the amendment, to add additional responsibilities to the ICTP, namely to the Strategic Mining Unit. With these provisions, the Fund will now be able to take on board projects of strategic importance - we have already foreseen this in legislation - to undertake, for reasons of speed, the competitive process and the monitoring of the implementation of these projects. It is recalled - I repeat - that this unit, which operates as a discreet organisational and accounting unit in the HSE, because it is not involved in the portfolio of the assets being exploited - is already technically supporting the ministries in order to include in the projects tens of actions financed by the Recovery Fund, the ESDP and the Public Investment Programme. Therefore, with these provisions - and I conclude, Madam President, thank you very much - the competences of the Strategic Mining Unit are complemented, in the interests of the public interest, by enabling it to become involved in the awarding and supervision of strategic projects. For the deprivation portfolio, ICT has already had these responsibilities for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u183	Madam President, will you give me a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u184	I would also like a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u185	I should first like to give the floor to the parliamentary representative and then to you, Mr President. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u186	Minister, have you measured the cost of these initiatives, namely, the extension by three months of what costs have it for the Greek economy, as well as the change in the conditions of aid in terms of the Greek State of the households? What this initiative costs, because you change the terms and has an interest in the National Representation knowing the costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u187	Mr Mulkiotis, ask yourself the question, so that the Minister can answer the question as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u188	Minister, do the arrangements that you have said fall within the scope of the extrajudicial platform? Secondly, I do not know if you know that everything that had been done through this "TAXIS" platform is not seen. Although there are documents and they appear to be the payments made until the pandemic began, I inform you - and I have the request from too many - they do not appear in the 'TAXIS'. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u189	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u190	I begin with the reasonable and correct observation of my colleague from the Civic Opposition, saying that yes, the measure has obviously been costed at EUR 37 million. It's part of the package of Thessaloniki, when we announced the additional measures. You're making me an excellent allegiance to prove that it's a new measure. What is an extension - extension does not mean that it is not a new measure. It was normally nine months old. We've been prolonging this for three months. It's a new measure. The citizen will be helped, but he would not have the help. So these costs are 37 million and they are for the extension - an extension for three months. In your question, Mr KINAL, what we are now legislating is not about the extrajudicial compromise, it does not have the platform that has already submitted thirty-five thousand of our compatriots to get a proposal for regulation when it is ready to collect the data from the institutions. Right now, what are we talking about? One citizen was at a hundred - a hundred - twenty doses. In the first phase of the health crisis, the state came and helped to have a hundred - one hundred - one hundred twenty - ones for three months. I remind you it was before the summer of 2020. We are coming now and we are making an overall approach and what do we say? Are you affected from March 2020 until July 2021 in the expanded list of April 2020? Did you lose a dose from the setting you had before the coronary? We're coming and we're giving you the opportunity to revive it. So, if you were regulated, we give you the opportunity to pay August, September and October - in fact in October we add here - to revive the hundred - a hundred and twenty-dollar arrangement. If you were unregulated and debts were created because a household was affected or business by the coronary from March 2020 to July 2021, then you have the possibility to enter up to seventy-two instalments from 1-1-2022. So there are two complementary tools to alleviate affected households and businesses within the koruna period. What you are saying is something that is distinct, is not covered by these arrangements that are to be discussed. I'm going to follow the objection you raised to me because I don't know her. And the request through parliamentary control or a specific letter to me to see with greater completeness the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Liupis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speeding up and giving up justice is a matter which we have been very concerned about in recent years. Generally speaking, in our legal system the procedures have always been slow and bureaucratic. In the last two years, real progress has been made in reducing bureaucracy in the public sector through rapid digitisation. The direct access of every citizen to justice is our obligation on the basis of the principle of fair trial and the European Convention on Human Rights. A judicial decision that comes after a long time is often applied in completely different circumstances from the original, making it impossible to restore the law at social and individual level. On the basis of the European Commission's report Greece shows signs of improving its position in relation to digitisation in justice. With today's draft law, new procedures are being introduced and digitally exploited in the political trial, aiming at a better, more direct and more effective civil justice. For the first time, the institution of the pilot trial by Arios Igos applies to the standards of the respective institution that has successfully worked in the administrative courts. This is how the Marios Ice is dealt with in order to resolve a complex legal issue of more general interest at the request of the parties or the court. This new possibility is expected to help speed up proceedings in civil courts while at the same time cultivating a sense of legal certainty to the parties. In no case shall the diffuse and incidental constitutionality check be avoided by all the courts, as was heard by the Opposition. The pilot trial merely ensures the immediate crisis of the Ice Arena in matters of general interest. It extends the possibility of presenting with a written statement of the lawyers and in cases where the oral debate as well as the consensual preambles is compulsory. Another step shall be taken in the use of electronic means and in the removal of written documents for the signature of documents, provided that the electronic documents are authenticated. Small changes are made to the article providing for the electronic performance of the document in order to adapt to the applicable legislation. The electronic billboard shall be provided for all proceedings in the courts which have entered into the integrated judicial and criminal justice management system. The use of digital means is even more intensified, since for the first time it is laid down that the Registrar may inform the party of any shortcomings in his file to be completed by e-mail. The new regular procedure has been in place for six years and it is sufficient time for safe conclusions to be drawn and for the necessary corrective actions to be taken in a very correct manner. In a very correct way, the new provision which deals with the same terms as a plaintiff and accused of the time-limit for submitting the proposals. The new deadline is increased to twenty out of a hundred days and starts from the same time point to both parties, restoring the previous injustice to the detriment of the defendants. Procedures shall be accelerated by avoiding a repetition of the discussion when the examination of witnesses or the conduct of an expert or autopsy is to be mediated. Crisis is being reduced, making it necessary for courts to redefined cases that have been vaccinated for reasons of force majeure such as the pandemic period. The provisional possibility given to lawyers to proceed with a solemn declaration on conditionality shall be permanent. The right treatment of children after parental dimension or divorce is an issue that has dealt with us a great deal as a society in recent years. Under no circumstances shall children be operated or levered from one parent to another. A new arrangement makes use of the consequences when a parent blocks the communication of the child with the other parent. This new provision is in line with our European requirements and national legislation for the implementation of judicial decisions relating to the necessary and valuable personal communication of children with their parents. Finally, I shall refer to the important amendment in my opinion of the Ministry of Finance, although Mr Stavrou has spoken in detail about it. There are therefore favourable arrangements for those affected by the pandemic and borrowers. Those who belong to the categories that were financially affected during the pandemic and had been subject to the regulation of their tax debts and lost it can be reincorporated by the end of October. The "GEOFYRA" programme is a successful initiative since it has more than sixty thousand applications. The state support of borrowers who have a attachment or mortgage in their main residence is a substantial help to the financially weak debtors. It is now extended for three more months, and it is foreseen that those who do not pay up to two instalments of their loan do not lose the subsidy. In the same way, those who had joined GEOGRAPHY 2 are being facilitated to support their business debts by extending the programme ending the year. To close, the upgrading of justice and the improvement of quality in the services provided is at the centre once again. Undoubtedly the intellectual material, the natural judges who have a high degree of training and a sense of duty for their serious role, the state must facilitate them in their work, as is the work of their contributors, who are lawyers. Chronic illnesses in the way the courts are organized and operated cannot, of course, evolve over a day. However, the Government and Headship of the Ministry of Justice have demonstrated their firm commitment to the substantial and technological reinforcement of the courts in order to perform their role in an uninterrupted and more effective manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Now Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my position I will try, because there is an experiential employment for decades in the fighting law, to be practical on key issues of the bill. Of course, the government today introduces another bill based on the title refers to major changes in the direction of substantial - it says - speeding up justice and digitisation. I will agree with the Secretary-General - I do not overlook you, Minister - that we all disagree with legal science and we have our experience of judicial everyday life. It is clear from its five-year implementation that it has made some improvements in the timing of the judgments, especially in the provincial judiciary - and I would like to point out this - while, as has been said, in the large first instances - you know it best - beyond the delay, and the secretaries do not have the best situation. How the records are stacked and what image is there has no other precedent. In the short term, it has in fact contributed decisively to the abolition of the possibility of postponing the regular procedure. Not even in extreme cases there is no postponement. It's a fact. However, Law No.4335/15 has created problems in terms of both the performance and the exclusion of the average witness evidence in the evidence process and in substitution with the jury attestations, which either we like or do not like the abolition of the witness proof cannot be substituted by the sworn attestations. And we all know what a jury means. Everybody! Apart from the industry that has been starting to flourish now, and I do not think it is to anyone's honour that the process is to be carried out through the jury and the criminalisation of all of them, as well as the involvement. Can you imagine how many people are involved in jury statements and what else is going on in the criminal courts? In any case, then, I cannot remember our professor Bey, who said that a fundamental principle is the directity of evidence. So don't tell me there's a direct evidence of this system. As much as you insist, ladies and gentlemen - and I refer to the majority rapporteur, I have read the Minutes - there is no directity. We cannot consider it in any way direct. It's gone. It is a very clear deficit in an integrated process of evidence, and this also appears to be the case in decisions. From the multitude of decisions. The draft law therefore appears to have resolved a number of issues which have caused a significant number of outstanding cases. It may be avoided that the risk of contradictory decisions and the perpetuation of trials before the court on the substance with unfavourable consequences for citizens is avoided. In reality, however, the improvement of these over the many years of existence in the area of justice and their resolution is not achieved unless the effective administration of justice is ensured. By the regular procedure, the 100-day process. It is a problem for the whole development, as it exists today. It is problematic, and we do not call it opposition, because we have something to do with this whole spectrum, and the majority now comes to that very logic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the chronic handling of court cases and the award of justice is a great deal and that it is necessary and necessary to ensure that citizens' rights are effectively safeguarded. We all agree on that. But, in fact, the introduction of this new system of standard or pilot trial in the Areo-Ice, on issues - it says - of more general interest, does it mean risks of aggregation of interpretative problems, but also of substance problems? The draft law provides that any special aid or instrument brought before any political court may be introduced in plenary. This is a very general provision which actually comes to unify categories of private-law corporate cases, but which are difficult to implement. It is difficult, they have nothing to do with cases of administrative law, administrative proceedings, to be judged in a pilot trial in that higher court. Because there is no clear definition of criteria on the basis of which it will be judged what the more generally relevant issues are. Who's gonna judge them? Anybody gonna say that? Because we're talking about private interests, we're talking about the political trial. The widest circle of people to whom these issues will have consequences and of course there will be consistency now, the arbitrage being on the agenda. I do not repeat what has been said, but questions are being asked and I very much hope that they will be answered. What is the reason why the government is making this proposal? What issues have been raised by and by whom have this legislative initiative been taken? And, of course, when we know that it is not all the same, we will also know that economic hardship and difficulty have led most people not to appeal to the courts, not even to the primary courts today. This has to be known. Not even the primary courtrooms. That's why the courts and Athens at 10:30' and 11:00' stop not only in trials of regular luxurious or one-sided, but also in special procedure trials. A certain situation and reality. It must also be explained by the government how it will be possible to respond to the ordinary citizen and to find out from any single court in Marios Ice, when we know the enormous cost that this entails. The civil courts are, in any case, not advisory bodies, nor are they legal bodies, and as the separation of powers is imposed, only a solution to specific private disputes that you bring before them. It is therefore extremely important, as specific constitutional principles are affected to ensure that the wider legal issues that are raised are essential to resolve the particular dispute referred to in plenary. In other words, it should be ensured in any event that the resolution of the dispute depends on the legal question on which the pilot trial is responsible. For Rule 938, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that the reintroduction of the request for suspension is correct but for mobile phones. Real estate? Do you know how many problems are created by Article 938? Do you know what properties they've lost? Everywhere, not just downtown. And in the periphery. Why, then, is it not for property? Also, what about 966? Looks like you're dealing with a lack of... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, please have your tolerance for two minutes. ... because, allegedly, often at the high first bid price. How's the procedure going? There's 966 that's very clear. He has first, second, barren, then appealed to court. Who decides? The judge. What does the judge decide? Alone? No, at the request of anyone who has a legitimate interest, but also a report of a certified valuer, who says how much the value of the property is. With what right, then, we in the legislature can determine and lower the first offer price, when the value of the property is different, because there are judges who have rejected applications because they say that the property does not do fifty, it does a hundred as the judge's estimate is, as there is the assessment of the certified valuer. What are we going to do, that is, leave nothing standing in this place? Automated first offer price reductions? Minister, Mr. Undersecretary, it's a big deal. Judges shall make judgments and dismiss applications, or shall be determined by the Judges, or shall speak of a free divestment in 966 which is clear. Why should we reject this in 966 and get to this point of automation? No care I believe there is no point in the debtor. Also, to say on a special subject. You are responsible for the peace court and the one-sided for the footnotes. Who really has an appropriate footnote? Does the amount of the loan set out the competence or the amount of the impurity registration? He's not writing it. I ask you and I ask you to answer: what is the material competence? The amount of the loan or the amount of the footnote? And also another issue in relation to 975. Don't tell me that now you're bringing the labour requirements into the privileges. Don't tell me that's an arrangement. Restore before the Law of 1915 the current 975 arrangement to say yes, there is provision for labour requirements, otherwise workers are ballast. And when you say that the deadline of the preferential nature will begin from the date of the auction and not from the date of the first auction, do you realize what you are losing back to this two-year period? What do you serve with this thing? Why do you want to institutionalise this very matter? Minister - I conclude, Madam President, and thank you for the tolerance - I would like to refer to the lack of judicial officers at the Thevas and Livadia Tribunals, in my constituency. Let me tell you that at the Court of First Instance in Thebes there are ten or three posts already under retirement, seven employees are left. The Prosecutor's office in fifteen organic posts serves seven and eight are empty. There are seven organic positions in the court and they serve one that is an IDAC position. And so is the Court of First Instance of Leivadia. There are shortcomings in both the court and the Court of First Instance. I would ask the Ministry very much to see these shortcomings. Without judicial officers, we cannot speed up justice. It's the button. If there are no employees, there is a big issue, there is a great deficit and there is then a perpetuation of an outstanding and suffering for the citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u195	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Kotsiras has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after four meetings in the relevant parliamentary committee, we now come to discuss an important bill of the Ministry of Justice in plenary, a bill on amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, a piece of legislation on legal everyday life, a piece of legislation on a wide range of legal procedures. With the provisions which come to be adopted today, an objective, which has emerged from the debates, and I think it is common, is to enhance the quality of justice in civil courts, improve the timing of its award, but obviously also the quality from which it must pass, for the benefit of all the interests of the Greek citizen. These changes take place six years after the last major changes of the Code of Civil Procedure via Law No.4335/2015. And because a lot of time has come through, it is indeed six years in which both the legal community and society and the state have seen problematic points and it is coming today to resolve them. And not just to resolve the problematic points that exist but to give innovative institutions and new predictable space to create a legal environment in which the contributors of justice, but also society itself, will be able to operate better, as I said before, for the benefit of the Greek citizen. That is why this piece of legislation has been done in a systematic way, in order to achieve better quality of the procedures and speed up the administration of justice and legislative imprinting of provisions relating to new technologies, which if not reflected in the Code of Civil Procedure, i.e. at the core of the exercise of the everyday life of the law, cannot be fully implemented and obviously solved, issues which had troubled the daily lives of the citizens, who have been appealing to the courts for many years, the lawyers, the judges and the judicial officers. And because it has been heard - and it has indeed been loudly - by a large part of the changes whether these procedures are about citizens, or about something foreign to the citizens and their interests, namely the strong ones and the strong ones, we see that a large part of the changes are about solving bureaucracy issues that have been created for many years. Those who have done so, we know that many of the cases either of the joint performance, of the joint declaration in cases which did not have this procedure or of correcting procedural issues by the secretaries by e-mail or other means, so that we do not get to the deadlocks which were flat-footed, bureaucratic and which were the ones that put against the legal daily life of the Greek citizen or the change in the way the small disputes were dealt with, which is a large part which also concerns a wide range of our fellow citizens, who, for small amounts, have to reach the courts and have to find their right and assess their case quickly, are resolved with this bill. With regard to the legal world to which you referred and said Mr Lappas if there was dialogue or no dialogue, let us read the communication from the plenary of the lawyers, which had indeed criticised certain issues, but acknowledges that many of the requests made and many of the issues that were resolved by this bill have been accepted. One of these, for which I have certainly seen that a mistake has been made by the Members who have been placed, is the alleged non-provision of appeal when an enforced title is payment order. If you look at the existing article amending 937, it is clear that this possibility is now available. This is reflected in the explanatory statement, which states that the amendment to Article 937 is a result of interpretatives, but in particular of the practical issues which have arisen in practice, with the predominant and universal abolition of the application for suspension of Article 938 in all cases of indirect enforcement. Abrogation of an appeal when an enforced title is a court order or a payment order has deprived the interpretation of Civil Law on a fundamental legal aid from the particular critical case of the Ice Bay. This is why the possibility of exercising, etc. is restored. Here, then, it is clear that this issue is now being resolved and wrongly said by previous colleagues. It is therefore all about the daily life of the citizen, especially because we are addressing society, in the interests of the quickest, most quality and most capable of reaching a decision before the natural judge. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to reflect changes in decision-making time for the real improvement of everyday life by magic. It takes time to focus on legal everyday life, it takes time in which these predictions will be implemented and they will be able to be captured, because I have also heard Mr Lappa mentioning Mr.4335/2015 and how it was voted and whether they were pressed at that time or not. If I'm not mistaken, it had been voted in July 2015 and as Mr. Lappas confessed, it had not changed either. This is where we come to an absurdity. We then claimed that we would change the memos with a law and an article and we cannot change the Code of Civil Procedure nor in a "and". So we come after years with a greater maturity, with a greater adequacy than the daily lives of the citizens, as it has been seen in the courts and those who reach justice, to correct errors, but also to introduce new institutions, as I have said. And we now come to the part of the main issue raised for the pilot trial. It has been heard of an allegedly indirect constitutional court, from the back door and in any other way some of the anti-population colleagues think that this is coming. No case and no comparison with constitutionality check. The diffuse and incidental control remains stable, constitutionally predicted function for the independent Greek judge, who, incidentally, is insulted by the opposition dimension you give to the issue, especially the Responsibility of Politics. I heard Mrs Jackson again and said so in committee that she should refer to riding justice through the institution and to administrative judges who turn themselves into bureaucratic judges. So the administrative judges who have been applying the pilot trial for eleven years are riding by the government, the state, the legislator, from whomever you like - you assess it - and bureaucrats? Obviously not. Or are the judges who will assess this request, even if it is from the parties, who have a differentiation from SYRIZA, even there, when they judge the matter, rid themselves and are bureaucrats? I beg your pardon very much, but this perception is in complete contrast with all the rest that we are discussing, and we need to start the debate from a completely different basis, even though we really respect judicial authority and recognise that the administration of justice is going through it or whether we want to give it a different way. It is precisely because the pilot trial aims at the way it takes place and with the filter that there will really be to improve everyday life and solve problems relating to the Greek citizen, because it is obviously not to the honour of any state for ten years to have a legal standstill on an essential and serious legal issue, and this should be the reason for different, contradictory decisions which in the end offer nothing to the Greek citizen who enters into a tangle of procedures and is forced to reach after many years to resolve the legal issue, what are we trying to do? To resolve a serious issue structurally, which will obviously be in favour of the interests of the Greek citizen, especially the weakest and not the strongest, who has been forced for ten years to come from one court to another, to refer one court to another and to make contradictory decisions to resolve the legal issue. What, then, are the so big interests that are served by the structural solution of a legal issue in good time? It is being saved in this way, resources are being saved, there will be a beneficial effect on differences that have aroused for many years all the courts of the country, and it is obviously also a sense of security for the Greek citizen, who sees and obviously this institution will be assessed along the way from its application, as assessed by the institution and who has been successful in its evaluation. I heard Mrs Jackson say that it was a Memorandum and Mrs Giannakopoulou say it was a PASOK initiative. There is also a dystocia in the way in which institutions are adopted in the country. We don't have that kind of dilemma. We adopt an institution that is in the interest of the Greek citizen, the speed of administration of justice, the grouping of differences and, by extension, the improvement of his everyday life and we have a direction towards the essential and qualitative improvement of Greek justice. Finally, before I close, Madam President, there are important changes in the legislative version of the provisions on digital justice, because, as I said at the beginning of my position, if there is no legislative imprint, i.e. their incorporation into legal everyday life, they cannot be applied to their full extent. All these small or large changes that exist are in the direction of speed and quality and need their time, they also need adequate evaluation from the legal world and they will have their print on legal everyday life in the coming period. I should like to end by stressing that the debate that took place and the positions of all parties I think the opposition is being held to a certain extent for the opposition, because the provisions envisaged solve serious problems of everyday life. Because many people invoke their legal status here, it is important that they genuinely appeal to the average lawyer who they took on the streets at a time, because it was in a great turbulence. Don't show up here as self-determination defenders of the legal world, and we call it unilaterally. There is an attempt to improve the everyday life of the legal world, the citizen whose interests go through the sensitive area of justice, and this improvement will be achieved by legislation such as that which has an axes of this kind that I have mentioned. Because I think that the differences are to a certain extent pretextful, I call on the opposition parties to support such legislation, to support this step-by-step effort, because, as I said, it is not from one day to the next to solve problems of decades, but we must support the pieces of the puzzle that we complement with every piece of legislation of the Ministry of Justice. If we manage this, we will have a legal working environment in the coming years in which we will all be able to really invest for the interests of the Greek citizen, for the development of the country, for faster, quality procedures that can give our country another breath, even in the sensitive area of Greek justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week - I think on Friday - the committee that gives the Nobel Peace Prizes awarded them to two journalists who are struggling against authoritarian regimes, against regimes that do not respect individual freedoms and human rights. I think it was a very important initiative in this committee, because independent and unbundled journalism, even if it is sometimes excessive and unfair, is better than there is at all. It is better to have control of power, even if it is sometimes too strict than not to have it. This is the foundation of a democratic parliamentary system, such as what has been created by Europe in recent centuries. This is also the foundation of our political system, Parliamentary Republic, a democracy which respects the separation of powers and respects the independence of every man and his rights. There is no power to oppress the citizen. There's to show the individual and the citizen. That is why, in order for the Parliamentary Republic to exist and function seriously, there must also be strong rule of law, which the rule of law exists to protect the weakest of citizens in a free society. You know, the powerful, the rich, the fewer, as they tell them in Russia or in other countries, those who possess the means do not need justice. They'd rather not have any courts. They could enforce the law on their own. The rule of law and the courts were done to protect those who do not have the power to be imposed. It was a liberal achievement that we were able to and formed, particularly in Europe and in the Western world, this serious distinction between the powers which Montesquié had first formulated in the 'Law Spirit' and which has become reality since the last two - three centuries. In Greece, independent justice, although no system is perfect and no institution is perfect, although it has its problems, is an institution that is especially respected by society, more than Parliament and by the government, more than legislative and executive power, and we must say that and we must recognise and see here in this House what we can do to strengthen Parliament's authority, but this is another debate. The problem in Greece with regard to justice is not that the judges are alienated, that they are caught, that they are corrupt, that they are controlled by political authority. There may be such cases. Nothing's perfect. The problem in Greece is that justice has been loaded with too many cases which it cannot deal with easily and at the same time prevents the law from being passed on to those who have it. I'll be 30 years of journalism this year. I think that as far as I remember, and I remember this request for the rapid award of the trial, the rapid award of the law. Even investment serious in Greece has been cancelled as a result of the delay in the administration of justice. So this problem comes to resolve the bill my two good friends bring, Kostas Tsiaras and George Kotsiras, not because they are my personal friends, but because they do a very good job at the Ministry of Justice. Is that perfect the law they bring? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Is this a very special piece of legislation they bring? Oh, no. It will appear in practice, and if necessary it will be corrected. Because all the legislation which is being discussed here is considered in practice how it is implemented and whether it is necessary to correct them all. That's the way it's going to be. But it is in the right direction and in the right direction that the rule of law will finally be able to function even better in our country, a rule of law that has been affected, which has been attacked, but which has always stood up to it, and that must never be forgotten by a rule of law that comes to protect - as I have said before - the weakest of the citizens and not the most powerful one. That is the point of the Liberal Parliamentary Republic, which we as the New Democracy and the Government of Mr Mitsotakis want to consolidate. You know in Greece we tend to whine and complain often, say that the institutions do not work, that the system does not work. However, let us not forget that since 1974 we have had the best function of democracy ever. Since 1974, we have had a smooth rotation of parties in power for over forty years, forty-seven this year and have been able to consolidate with all the problems that have been - clearly and - a strong Parliamentary Republic in our place that is not under threat. In the same way, the rule of law is not under threat. Instead, our intention is not only not to weaken, but to strengthen even more independent justice for the benefit of weak citizens, for the benefit of society, for the benefit of the country that is and must be the first priority for all of us here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Aylonite from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Madam President. I don't get a lot of impression about the awards. Mr Mitsotakis also awarded a prize to Chancellor of Austria. Jufio, he's out. Chancellor's checked by justice. He was spending money - they say - from the state funds to make the profile. Institutional and legal intimacy? I don't think so. Do you know what I call it, ladies and gentlemen? Political disgrace, if that really is the case. I call it cowardice and embezzlement or infidelity of public money if that happens. I insist on the word 'court', because it does not have the courage that anyone who makes this fight against their opponents. He's cheating on the electorate. It devours the idea of democracy and the institutional framework of a favoured state, the one doing this. Here in Greece, where every little while, Minister, you are modifying codes, introducing new institutions - as we will shortly be discussing - into justice, what is happening? Have you heard anything similar about what the Austrian Chancellor is controlled for, or am I just listening to them, or am I just reading them? Is that why an institutional regulation is needed? You'll tell me what I'm saying now. Have you heard that a few days ago Mrs. Keramea is increasing the number of children in the departments and from twenty-seven are making twenty-eight and there are being abolished in order to reduce the cost of payment of deputies? What Mr Loverdos said - that our democracy has risen up, this part which is the majority of Anti-Population - you are not the majority of the Greek people, you have the majority in the seats in Parliament - do you hear it at one time? This is how democracy works, how all the Members of Parliament are heard. If they're not heard, you can only hear from the right, Mr. Chiara. But let's go to the point where we're asking. I have chosen in the very short time available to me to comment mainly on Article 2 of the bill. I will tell you from the outset that such an incision in the field of political trial is a measure and a science, particularly when it comes to moving from another country to such an institutional framework. It wants seriousness, not rush and, above all, a scientific debate. None of this has happened and other colleagues have told you. "But, in August, did he put the consultation on such a serious issue? In August?’ You are simply relying on the logic of political impression and the service of interest. The establishment and the political process of the institution of the pilot trial tell you out loudly that it creates major issues of constitutionality. You can't hear it. We are therefore saying that issues of constitutional legitimacy are also raised. This institution is of benefit to the citizens of this crisis and to the protection of the established jurisdictions, dear rapporteur of the New Democracy. It's solid. This, of course, focuses specifically on cases - from where I have found - banking contracts and loans, labour disputes and overdue households, that is, where it hurts you. Your government is once again trying to hit the weak for whom Mr. Loverdos spoke earlier. The pilot trial in civil disputes is incompatible with the Greek legal system. You were told here by great lawyers, who are thirty, thirty-five years on the benches of the courts. There is no institutional insurance policy that everything will go well and that there will be no circumvention of constitutional provisions for the three degrees of jurisdiction of our political courts. This paragraph is addressed to Mr Kotsira, the State Secretary, whom I particularly appreciate, like you, Mr Tsiara, and you know that. There is a risk that the creation of judged by the supreme court in our country before even crossing any issue of more general interest, as you baptize it, from the suffering of the degrees of real justice. The first two grades give essential justice, not the Marios Ice, to matters of political interest and not scientifically purely legal interest to the Government. It is therefore abrogated that the independence of each judge, who is protected by the Constitution, is determined and judged consciously in the interpretation and application of the law without any commitment by other courts. What great lawyers have told you a moment ago, second time, I stress, quasi-legality and we do not have such a legal system. Look into the Anglo-Saxon systems that case law produces fair. The pluralist regime is perpetuated and the government prefers to serve the interests of the banks. I said it before, not to mention it. I will tell you at this point something out of text. If I remember correctly, he was Mr Calavos at the plenary session of the presidents of the state's legal associations: 'The introduction of this system will reduce legal material by 50%'. Remember that. I agree with him. We'll see about that in a while, as long as we're MPs. The people will judge it. I tell you, take it back and let justice and the scientific community and professional bodies give you their opinion on the question of how to quickly award justice. Don't get justice hurt anymore with experiments of this kind. Let me tell you about the practice of abolishing orality. And because I have left my written text a little bit, I shall refer to that and I shall close, Madam President. Article 3 stipulates that the principle of the orality of the proceedings, which is now maintained only in matrimonial differences and measures. The procedure at the audience is a living process. Those who have not experienced the hearing in criminal and political courts cannot understand how justice should be granted. Only by the living process, can the judge see the witness, orally listen to the defendant's opinion. All this has been made by our culture so that you can come and remove it? ‘The pleas must be made and made oral, where necessary by the parties at the hearing, to be examined by the parties and the court.’; You put on the window that artificial practices - to remind you - were adopted in the midst of a pandemic, that is, exceptional circumstances in order to deal with unprecedented problems. Since I have already reached eight minutes and have no intention of keeping my time, I am ending by saying that this bill, in my own personal opinion and in so many years of my law, should have led to the audience of this House being filled, because the introduction of the pilot trial has severely affected our legal system. Take it back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, too. I will now give the floor to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs Kerameos, to support the amendment No 1099/89/8-10-2021. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. I apologise to colleagues for a brief speech on the amendment with a general number of 1099 and a special number of 89 that has been tabled in this draft law by the Ministry of Justice. Here, ladies and gentlemen, are provisions, some of which were within the announcements of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. I would remind you that there the Prime Minister has announced the extension of the housing allowance of a thousand euros to the public IEC-trained, and this comes into effect with this amendment. It is therefore planned to extend the housing allowance to all public IKK trainees who are obviously subject to specific conditions. The annual housing allowance will now be granted in the same way as the HEIs with criteria such as the place of permanent residence and education, income, assets and so on. Other arrangements are in place for nurses and nurses’ and children’s assistants in our schools. I would also like to stress another provision which has also been announced. After the first application of the minimum import base, as we announced, we give more time to university institutions to determine the rate they want for the minimum import base. That deadline had expired at the end of August. We're expanding it on November 1st. Since universities want to think further, to take account of the results of the first application of the minimum base, to decide on the same factor as they want in their university departments. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou, and Mrs Adamopoulou, from Mera25, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that all legislative initiatives taken so far by the Government aim both to speed up the administration of justice and to further digitise it by using new technologies and electronic means. And yes, the pandemic with the particular conditions it has shaped has worked catalytically for developments, but on the other hand, the Ministry of Justice has demonstrated extremely reflexively and has progressed rapidly in institutional areas which, up to a few years ago, seem impossible to implement. The current legislation, which introduces major amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure with a view to further speeding up the time of the administration of justice, is also moving in this direction. These interventions include, firstly, the introduction of innovative measures with the top of the pilot trial in Marios Ice. Secondly, the establishment on a permanent basis of successful arrangements implemented for the first time during the pandemic. Thirdly, the further strengthening of electronic media in civil proceedings. Initially, the great innovation of the bill is the introduction of the model or pilot trial in Arios Igos, which has been fully implemented since 2010 in administrative justice, having brought about a significant decongestion of the boards of administrative courts and a substantial administration of justice. Thus, the Ice Bay plenary is now being given the opportunity to respond to a critical legal issue of greater interest, with a view to its rapid and definitive solution. This is without doubt a provision which is in the interests of society, for the benefit of our fellow citizens and above all our economically weakest fellow citizens, as the parties will avoid unnecessary judicial costs, long waiting times, long suffering and risk of conflicting decisions. Nevertheless, objections were raised by the opposition, mainly summarised in the pilot trial, allegedly override the diffusion and incidental control carried out by the civil courts. These objections, however, lack a substantial and legal basis. The resolution of any legal issue raised by the Ice Bay plenary in a pilot trial in no case can be taken as an interference in the judicial work of the Courts of Justice and does not affect the provisions of a res judicata, since the decision of the Ice Bay expressly provided for in the order only binds the parties to the proceedings in question and the interveners and only with regard to the legal issue assessed. Each case will continue to be judged sovereignly and exclusively by the competent court on the substance. It is also obvious that the diffuse and incidental constitutional control remains the responsibility of all the courts of the substance and of the Ice Arena, in accordance with the constitutional requirements of Articles 87, 93 and 20 of our Constitution. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the legal issue of greater interest that can reach the Marble Ice in a pilot trial is not necessary only for a constitutional check. It may concern any legal issue, such as, for example, the applicable rule of law in one case. It was heard on the part of the Opposition, mainly the Officer, that certain degrees of jurisdiction are omitted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, does Article 20 of the Constitution provide for a second degree of jurisdiction? He's been judged on several occasions that he's not. Also, while on the side of the opposition it is welcomed that it was a successful institution, the pilot trial in the Council of State, plead that in that case, in the administrative trial, the parties were public on the one hand and the individual on the other. You know, of course, that this issue has been decided for years. I am referring to the well-known Fulas Platakou case, which is now a procedural equality between the parties, regardless of whether there is the public on one hand and the other on the other. I would like to say here that we cannot imply in this Chamber that there is a alleged danger of riding judges. It does not suit the authority of the Greek judges and the independence that characterises their judgment. Furthermore, in other provisions of the draft law, arrangements dictated by pandemic conditions are now on a permanent basis. It distinguishes the possibility of obtaining a solemn declaration from lawyers, which had almost been accepted at the hearing of the bodies, but also the provision for the home redefinition of judges, which were not discussed for reasons of force majeure, which saves time and money for the parties. Moreover, in a series of provisions of the bill, so-called digital justice now takes flesh and bone in the political trial. Indicate: Electronic identification of parties, electronic submission of documents, service of documents by electronic means, electronic maintenance of plates and electronic invitation to complete formal omissions. In conclusion, I should like to refer to and welcome the provision which now enables the lawyers to exercise their exercise in the mortgages in the country. It is an important arrangement, which will help the work of mortgages that they face every day - it is true - a huge volume of transactions, but which will also provide lawyers with valuable knowledge and experience in the Victim Law. On the basis of this regulation, I would like to propose, Mr Minister, knowing, of course, that it falls within the competence of the Ministry of Digital Governance, but also because it concerns lawyers, that there should be a similar provision for the possibility of lawyers being exercised and the country's real estate offices.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u205	Mrs Mani's proposal has already been taken into account and we will include it in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u206	The statement, Mr Minister, is very positive because we are all aware of the huge workload with which the livestock offices have been imposed. I too see it at my place at the Caterina Land Office, and unfortunately there are delays in several cases. At the same time, the digitisation of many transactions with the Stock Exchange, which is already carried out by the relevant Ministry, would be useful to further staffing by lawyers as well. Ladies and gentlemen, a modern and comprehensive Code of Civil Procedure is sure to raise the daily lives of our fellow citizens, workers in the field of justice, but will also bring significant benefits for the national economy, the development and the attraction of new investments. The government will continue its deep and bold areas throughout the country's jurisprudence, areas such as today, which should be supported by all political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Adamopoulou, the Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the political time is dense and the issues of the topical and urgent nature of the last few days, on which I shall return to the course of my position. I will focus on a number of key issues of the draft law, which cause practical problems and, of course, even harm our own justice as a system of rules, principles and values. If we go back to legal times, starting with Law 3869/2010, we note that there have been a wide range of laws aimed at speeding up the laws. If, in fact, we add to these laws and secondary law, ministerial decisions with authorized provisions, then we are really unthinkable. At a level, first of all, declarants, we see that a common feature of all these legislative initiatives and measures is the certainty of the political leadership that it has brought about a law, with which it will be able to kill the beast, which has been stirring up justice for years and is the delay in the administration of justice, the delay in the adoption of judicial decisions. Every Minister who goes to the Stepma, to support his own bill on speeding up his own proceedings, shows it, more or less, as a valuable part of this puzzle, which is the chronic problem of delaying the extradition of court judgments. I am not only talking about the area of political trials, as we are discussing today, but it is something that is arousing both criminal justice and administrative justice. Now, on a purely practical level, we would say that three are the common features of these legislative measures. First of all, all these legislative measures proved to be inadequate in relation to their objective. I say this because when a Minister, after a short time, from an earlier legislative initiative, comes to change, he comes to amend the newly adopted bill, then that means that we are talking about laws which are inappropriate in relation to the objective pursued. In other words, instead of bringing together a coherent grid of provisions, with organisational competence and with actually applicable provisions and solutions, they eventually resorted to genograms and clipboards. Because we see that scorpioned, sketchy, sketchy ideas found the right ground to reckless political leaderships, which were proclaiming that they came to deal with the problem and which, in the end, they did what? They promoted fragmentary patches to heal, supposedly, the problem of delaying the administration of justice. The second common feature of all these legislation is incomprehensible legal insecurity, which has caused, not only in our legal world, but also in society in general. I will insist on the insecurity they cause in society as a whole, because it seems to me, indeed, to be unthinkable that there are some colleagues in this House who have the impression that quality in the administration of justice is something that concerns - to say by borrowing the term by Constitutional Law - the interna corporations of justice officials. In other words, it is a purely internal management issue, which concerns only the officials of justice, the judges, the judiciaries of justice, who are lawyers and officials, and it is a problem which the citizen is concerned with and which is ultimately paid for. It is therefore a problem that concerns the whole society, the whole social fabric. I come to the third common feature of all these legislative initiatives, which is that every time a law on the acceleration of their own has come, it has also called for a very heavy price for its services. I say this because every time a law claimed to promote precisely the acceleration, on the one hand, it degraded the quality of justice and, on the other, it increasingly restricted citizens' access to justice, that is, the right to judicial protection. Of course, I am prepared to discuss that this is a complex, complex issue, which requires a lot of work. However, I am not at all willing to negotiate that, when we come to deal with delays in justice, the citizen himself pays for this in the way of alpha or beta. I am also going to give my credit to the President of the Ice Bay, who, through her institutional role, has had the courage to admit that a large share of responsibility for these delays lies with the members of the judiciary themselves. I cannot, however, give my credit to the honorable and reliable, otherwise, President of the Ice Bay, for a few months ago he refused to provide anonymised information requested by the House of Lawyers on problems in the adoption of judgments in specific courts of the country. So the questions of justice to be solved want in any case a productive cooperation from all the actors in justice. We must leave out any quarrel barriers and useless competitions which at the end harm the citizens, undermine the very functioning of the rule of law and, in any case, harm the citizen himself. Evidently, the speed of justice is a characteristic inherent in the quality of justice. Rather, it is a qualitative feature of the administration of justice, but the speed should not be promoted in the administration of justice as an absolute priority and as an end in itself, contrary to the quality and substance of justice itself. I say this because we have reached the point that we have made evidence without witnesses - the witness, as we say, proof - i.e. without witnesses, with a jury of attestations, more and more documents, which, Minister, if you do not know for sure what the sworn statement will say. It is a document that the lawyer usually writes, gives it to the witness, sometimes adds sauces, then he swears that what is recorded is true, goes to the peace judge, to the notary, says to him: “Do you swear that it is true what is recorded?” 'I swear.' That's not a witness. First of all, a sworn witness is a document containing a witness, not even a witness. From there on, however, the witness does not even pass through the suffering of the vice versa. So we see you come here and bring in a system that abolishes the interrogative and discussion system, a system that is really incompatible with our legal culture. The principle was made by the field of administrative justice. You are also bringing us a controversial procedure in which the Marios Ice is called upon to give genuine solutions to problems of more general interest with the institution of the pilot trial. So, if, among other things, your aim is to abolish the diffuse and bypassing judicial control of constitutionality and introduce a constitutional court, tell us. You must also tell us whether the law you want to introduce from continental - European, which is ours, is an Anglo-Saxon or American law. Because in our fair source of law it is not case law, it is law and custom. It's a good case. It's invoked by lawyers. We also put it in the proposals together, but not in this last point alone, in order to serve banking interests, the interests of the funds to the detriment of vulnerablely indebted households. That is what all the judiciary associations, the assembly of legal associations, have said. I do not want to repeat what my colleagues have said. I would not be able to comment, ending with the bill - I will then be placed on top of the topicality - in the provision of Article 62, which has to do with the enforcement of decisions for the performance or delivery of a child to the parent for whom the decision is being taken. In finding - it says - on behalf of the curator - you had it 'confirmation' in his report, you made it 'certification', what Yiannis, what Giannakis, nothing has changed - to block the right of communication. In other words, you are giving the judge-in-law quasi-judicial jurisdictions. The right of citizens to appeal to the natural and legal judge is abolished, because in the end the judiciary has to do what it has to do and is solely responsible, it is to record facts nor to attest nor to establish any violation of judicial decisions or infringements of rules. This is where I want to ask you, Mr. Kotsira. Mr. Secretary, I'll ask you a question. If you want, listen to it. There is an ambiguity in this provision. When the court curator goes to execute the judgment, will he justify what he writes or just confirms? Because in many cases where the court curator goes to execute a decision, it may not be possible for mom, dad, to hand over the child, because the child is sick. If however, the court marshal confirms that there is a right blockage, then you know what happens? Then he can sue for a false statement. When Mum or Dad go to court, the parent in question, and produce the medical advice and say that I didn't give my child, why was she sick that day and, here's the medical advice, what responsibility is the judge responsible for the attestation, for the report he has drawn up? Here's my question. I'm very sorry, but this is a very dangerous provision. It's still on the ferry that you opened with conspiracy. If a child alone doesn't want to go to the other parent, will the curator find out, or will he say he's the parent who alienates the child from the other parent? Will the child be heard, as did colleagues in the committee quite rightly say, regardless of age? Will his voice be heard in such a process involving his own emotional health, or will he diagnosed whatever the judicial curator wants?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u209	The court decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u210	It draws up a report - you say - where the report records the blockage of the right of communication. This is a diagnosis that replaces the judicial judgment. Let the Minister answer what I said. I'm on the flaming news issues. Madam President, if I may, I would also like to take time from my second language. I start with the issue of coronary, because we see that the statistics of the Disease Control and Prevention Centre are coming to say that Greece has been registered as early as October in the fifth worst place in the European Union in deaths per million citizens. So I ask if the Prime Minister is going to make a request on this matter, explain why he has screwed it up or intends to give the blame elsewhere. Secondly, the question of dishonesty, accuracy. We see that the heating, power, gas bills are rising. Electricity and heating will drain the citizens' wallets. The household's basket will become literally greedy, because it is now the citizen who comes to pay the broken-downs from the lockdowns. As long as the price of oil rises accordingly, prices in retail products will certainly not be the big companies that will absorb this increase, even a euro from all this accuracy and all these increases. The measures announced by Mr Stakoras, the Minister of Finance - and today he has announced - are really inadequate and cannot compensate for the bar of accuracy that we see and which affects citizens. Because we hear the Members and ladies of the New Democracy say several times in public against grants, I ask the government this question: What does it do to compensate for the need for grants? What does he do to combat unemployment to raise wages and pensions? What does it do to tackle the oligopolises and monopolies, to reduce, eliminate unreasonable public spending, all those, in any case, which would significantly reduce the need for subsidies and support the economy, growth and the immorality of our economy? Now that Mr Stavros has announced today 'GEYRAS 1' and 'GEFYRAS 2' for natural and legal persons are extensions in respect of the fulfilment of credit obligations. Cuvets for debt write-offs. A haircut. It is simply that the debt obligations and the pressure on households and the debtors are further extended. Finally, I would like to refer to the explosion of uncovered fascist violence in Thessaloniki and the government's responsibility because it has been flirting all this time with the extreme right space. It's a constant flirt policy. New Democracy has suddenly remembered that Mr Bogdan's statements are inconsistent with its statutes and commitments. Didn't you hear Mr. Bogdan's place was this long? Now did you remember? Do you also forget that within the New Democracy, you are housing other ideological conglomerates of Mr Bogdanos? But the problem is not Bogdan. The problem is that a few days ago the Minister of State, Mr. Gerapetritis, on a radio broadcast last Wednesday, was asked - the wrong question, of course - whether Mr. Bogdanos will return to New Democracy when he has been deleted from the parliamentary group, not from the New Democracy. Mr. Gerapitris said: "There are multi-faceted translations between different and heirly political formations. We see alliances between formations that no one would expect. It is obvious that in such a context, everything could happen." This "anything" will allow me to say that it is the epitome, it is the monument of social opportunism on the part of the New Democracy, because if anything is done, you are willing to happen what Mr Gerapeitris says, then in future we will see things that cannot be understood even the most perverse political imagination. I conclude, therefore, by saying that as long as he lovingly embraces the extreme right, those who lovingly embrace the extreme right and insist on obscene false setbacks such as the unscrupulous theory of the two extremes, all of them cannot be called an amynod of democracy. These flaks that you make with the phenomenal margin or tolerance to the remains of the Golden Dawn and such ideology, have the effect that the groves of the hooked crosses are bleeding the schools, opening heads and recruiting even minor children. When the Director of the Prime Minister's Office in Thessaloniki, Maria Antonio, attends a celebration of hatred, does not do so as a simple citizen, but as a representative of the Prime Minister. When in the same events of shame Mr.Jikalayas appears, you know very well that he represents the party again rather than himself. So when you seriously decide to make self-criticism and get rid of your extreme right-wing weights, then we can also consider you to be seriously responsible interlocutors in a debate on the eradication of right-wing activists in our country. Until then, you will be struggling with the inconvenience of your vote, you will be intimidated that you want to mock your far-right audience for voting reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Chapter of New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u212	Madam President, I have asked for the floor as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u213	No, because before you all other parliamentary representatives had already spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u214	I asked you before Mrs Adamopoulou and you told me that Mrs Adamopoulou would then speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u215	It's Mrs. Adamopoulou, it's Mr. Villard and they're registered here a while ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u216	You're talking about three speakers before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u217	Please, Mr. Comrade. I know my work very well from the Chair. Please. The fact that you raised your hand does not mean that at that time you should also take the floor, because your previous colleagues already have the floor. What can we do now? They've been documented. They're registered, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u218	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, you told me that you wanted the floor and I told you that before you Mrs Adamopoulou is before you and I cannot give you the floor. This does not mean, however, that I do not have any other colleagues written on my paper before you. I don't deprive you of your word. I have no reason to deny you the reason. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u220	Please, after Mrs. Head, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u221	You cannot speak because other colleagues have already been written. You're written later. I've recorded you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u222	After I've asked for it a long time ago!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u223	What am I supposed to do now? Do I have to change the list, Mr. Comrade? I'm sorry, but you're registered to speak immediately after Mr. Snowsides. I've recorded you. How's it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u224	But I've asked you before!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u225	Listen to me. Everyone raises my hand like this, and at the same time you expect me to record you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u226	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u227	Listen, Mr. Comrade, please. There's a situation up here. I'm keeping a row the way I'm asked to speak. You raised your hand and I told you that you cannot because there is another colleague of yours before you. This does not mean, however, that there is no Mr Pafilis, there is no Mr Villard who has asked before you. Mr. Xanthopoulou came before you on the ground. What am I supposed to do now? Do you think it's intentional, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u228	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u229	No, 'Please do not.' I want, please, to finish this. Do you think it's intentional?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u230	I won't question your motives...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u231	I can't hear you. I want you to talk to the microphone, please, because I want it recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u232	I'm telling you, I'm not going to question your motives. That's not the purpose. We simply have the right to speak when we ask three speakers to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u233	I am telling you again and I want you to understand this - I do not know, I do not know, because you are a new parliamentary representative - that when colleagues ask, we must record them and that is what we are doing. If you were late and asked for the floor, it does not mean that immediately after three colleagues I have to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u234	Madam President, we will not continue this. But whether I'm new or not I'm a new parliamentary representative has nothing to do with it. For your information, I have been a parliamentary representative since 2015 with the river that I had been elected. I would therefore like you, as I have not offended, to withdraw the issue of the new or non-new parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u235	Listen. You're insulting the Chair by my face right now, when you question what I'm telling you. You doubt what I'm saying, Mr. President. The Members who requested the floor before you are registered are here. What am I supposed to do now? Let's raise your hand a little earlier, or we'll be here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u236	Tell us who's registered by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u237	All Parliamentary Representatives have been written. What am I supposed to do? I read them. I have no reason to blame anyone, especially a colleague who... I'm sorry, but I don't think I've shown such behavior from the Chair. Isn't that right? Whenever I was asked for the floor, I have recorded it and given the floor. What am I supposed to do now? Mr. Theocharis was delayed. What am I supposed to do? I cannot put him before a colleague who has asked me for the floor beforehand. How's it going to happen? Mrs. Head has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating another legislative initiative by the Ministry of Justice aimed at treating failures and correcting failures in a legitimate and effective manner. This is the main axis of legal everyday life, which regulates a wide range of social actions and social behaviour. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The aim of the Ministry of Justice, through this bill, is to achieve the acceleration and qualitative upgrading of the political trial. In this way, a more flexible process is introduced in the micro-differences which are also an important part of judicial and legal everyday life and which concerns a large part of citizens. The citizens seek to ensure the security and stability of the United Nations. The confidence of citizens and businesses in the rule of law, the rules of justice, the perception of citizens of the independence and effectiveness of the judiciary are measurable. Law No.4335/2015- that the Antipopulation brought - had malfunctions in its implementation. This legislation has caused difficulties in the process of awarding justice policy. Problems such as the delay in the administration of a law which harms citizens are of major importance both for the citizen itself and for the institution of justice. Today we are coming to improve the existing institutional framework and correct these malfunctions. We seek a definitive solution to some of the legal issues of wider interest and to strengthen legal certainty. We solve problems that continue to trouble Greek citizens and build a legal environment that is qualitative, different, rapid and beneficial to society. Ladies and gentlemen, we must speed up the pace of justice policy and the amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure are aimed at improving the crisis over the decisions of civil courts. It is the process offered by the vast majority of our fellow citizens to resolve the differences that arise through their family, social and professional lives. The bill serves the objective of upgrading legal protection. We are simplifying and clarifying the procedure for the introduction and discussion of cases to the audience. We are electing the necessary deadlines for the adoption of decisions on interim measures. We permanently establish the possibility of taking a jury of attestations before a lawyer. In this way, we consolidate special rules which had been introduced into civil justice during the pandemic period to facilitate the parties, and these arrangements are now of a lasting nature. We introduce a new, simplified, flexible and short process for resolving micro-variability by creating a new electronic platform for collecting evidence during the process. We are thus significantly discharging the civil courts from paper evidence. We are putting an end to unnecessary bureaucracy and the extra cost that the process of calling for the redefinition of the trial requires. Cases not brought for discussion as a result of force majeure will be redefined by action of the court. This means that citizens will save time and money, since they have had to take their own action so far. Ladies and gentlemen, we are setting up the political trial before the Ice Bay on issues of more general interest in order to speed up the administration of justice and strengthen legal certainty. We're implementing one more of our commitments. We resolve issues which, by their nature, create a large number of trials. We avoid the risk of contradictory decisions and the perpetuation of those with adverse consequences for citizens. We are also voting for justice. The government's determination to transform the country into the pandemic acted as a driving force for progress. With the use of electronic means in conducting procedural proceedings before the courts, we save time and expense for the citizens and the state. The digital signature in the documents is assimilated to the physical signature. We incorporate all these digital tools, which we have seen in the past year, into the Code of Civil Procedure, so that the institutions and procedures of justice can function properly. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a word about Article 89, which enables the lawyers involved to carry out part of their practice in the mortgage offices. This provision is faced with the major problem of mortgageing the mortgages, a problem which results in serious delays and a large number of outstanding cases in them. This is a matter which I have raised with a parliamentary question some time ago in order to support both the mortgages and the better service of the citizens, and the relationship between the state and the citizen will be qualitatively upgraded. The mortgages will be strengthened and new jobs will be opened on the labour market for trainees to carry out the practice. Today, then, we are taking a look at this in the future. In addition, companies consider the conditions relating to the rule of law in the countries in which they invest. So through the proper administration of the law we are also strengthening the country's development dimension, because costs and excessive duration of judicial proceedings are key reasons for suspending investment decisions. The high sense of justice in our jurisprudence is an attractive factor both for businesses and investments. The Government of Nea Democrat Republic has raised the bar with a unique goal, to approach better performance in the conflict resolution index, to make the administration of justice more qualitative in Greece. Already within the two years of governance we have intervened to speed up the resolution of disputes and reduce cases which enter our judiciary. Justice systems must meet citizens' expectations, and that is what we are doing. We want a justice accessible to everyone. We want our fellow citizens not to be troubled by an endless judicial procedure, not to have to bleed financially or to fear that the years will pass for court rulings. We are practically strengthening the confidence of the Greeks in the institutions of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Head. Good evening, good week from me. I have the honour to inform the House that the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the Members of his party have tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry into the civil manipulation operation of public opinion, the frustration of institutions and the destruction of public money, in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144(5)(b) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. This proposal will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, printed and distributed to the Members of Parliament, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u240	The Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Pafilis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u241	We want, above all, to salute and unite our voice with teachers, who, with their great participation in the strike - unprecedented participation - and with their great participation in the rally, say 'no' to social discrimination school, which is all sold and purchased - this is your policy, for example, eighteen one writes to enter the university, does not pass, pay 8 000 to the private college and equals his degree, one example, apart from all the others - which they said 'yes' for a school that forms and does not exterminate teachers, students and parents. Really, how do you feel? Mrs. Kerameau's gone. When the bill was confronted, you said you had the consent of the vast majority of the educational community, parents and students. Here's the proof: One hundred and fifty thousand on the strike. What consensus do you have? None. It turns out every day and as long as the time goes, you won't have a good time. You'll get worse and worse. So listen to what the Greek people are asking for. Now, the major changes in key areas of civil law and in total in the justice system, the so-called reforms, are neither fragmentary nor technical nor neutral, nor are they intended, Mr Secretary-General, to serve everyone - and we will prove it - just as the reforms, so-called and changes, in all areas - economics, industrial relations, social sector, environment and others - which are sweeping and are also reactionary, are not intended to serve everyone, especially the people, but are intended to serve those whose ideology you say is the channel of the system, namely the exploitation of human beings and business groups, capital, to say it. So, in the area of justice, the supposed modernisation - even though you hide it, but we are not naive, I will say below - serve this objective. In other words, it aims to implement all the anti-grassroots and reactionary laws that you and the previous ones have passed, so as not to blame anyone. It is subject to all changes, including in civil, political, criminal and administrative proceedings. We have proved this in all the bills and, of course, who have islanded it. Usually, even the Prime Minister doesn't answer our argument. You find, of course, better to have easy opponents, the others you disagree on the procedure, not on the substance, of the other parties. In our arguments - and this cannot be called into question by anyone - a position that we in Parliament are usually not answering and whistling indifferently, and that says everything. Therefore, we have proved them and have proved that the workers and the Greek people and the winners are the ones who are stealing from them. Because they are said to be very nice, such as 'independent', 'autonomous', 'no', 'just' - we will prove that whether or not it is true - justice and, in substance, the content of the laws that are voted on, which are anti-grassroots and which the judges are called upon to apply - that must not be forgotten - they have an anti-grassroots framework which is called upon to apply, and that is at the expense of the majority of the people, and that is proved on a daily basis. But in the process too, it is not independent as you say. She's deep classic, hard classic. And you're imposing it. I don't want to acquit any judges. They come before an institutional framework literally barbaric for workers. After all, the Pissaridis report calls it cynical. We want justice to serve investors. Serving investors means removing all those obstacles that existed under the struggle of the people, under and under other circumstances. To liberate everything so they can make as much as possible. And first of all, they will, of course, take out the exploitation of the workers. That's why you've built these Hatzidakis atrocities. The two laws and too many of them were passed before and by the PASOK and SYRIZA governments. Let us now take the debate on the political trial. What's the truth? And we say that it serves to create a suffocating control of the formation of case law and to impose it. Mr. Chiaras is gone. Don't tell us it's not mandatory. We know something, too. When you have the case law of the Ice Bay, does it affect or does it not affect all the lower courts? It's working. We don't know who's gonna find the power and the boo to go against. But even if they're lost, they'll be again. I mean, for judiciary. That's what you want. What are you talking about? That you do so as not to trouble people, not to make unnecessary actions and expenses. Okay, we're not naive, I'm saying again. We understand that. That's a pretext. It's a real problem. Much has been done, especially by large legal offices and not by self-employed lawyers. I mean it. But that's not the point. It is, in fact, practically possible to ban, even the least, some sort of progressive conception in certain judicial decisions. Law and order "and dogs tied up", that is. Marios Ice decides from there and sometimes some honest judges, as an exception - because others cannot or do not want - can make a positive decision, even to a small extent, on the people and workers. Secondly, the establishment of written proof in the civil trial and the abolition of a live examination of witnesses at the audience, who is serving? Who's he helping? Let me just say it more simply so people can understand, because of what we are talking about here and from the speeches we are hearing, he does not understand exactly what is happening. Let us assume overall that it is a large business and a mere worker. Do the same possibilities exist for the company having personal, money, mechanisms, complete computer systems, large document file can be met in accordance with its own interests? Yes, in a short time? You're cutting time. Can the individual worker or someone else do all this? So who's upstairs? They are the large legal offices, the large companies that also have huge legal units and possibilities, because they have money that they naturally get from the workers. The average poor party is objectively in a more unfavourable position. Is this true or isn't it? Are we wrong or right? We're right and you know it and don't move your head. This also applies to society as a whole. What do you think? Will a poor man go against a majesty to win the trial? Tell us a few examples, and on the basis of these limitations you put on. Also, the same is true of large legal offices in the field of lawyers. The large legal offices of up to fifty people have the possibility of responding both to the deadlines and to what I said earlier. Let me not repeat it. He will be able to respond to the inappropriate deadlines, as we say in a simple language, if he can respond. Ask the self-employed lawyers who fight and work 15 hours a day what stress they have to close the file. Thirdly, speeding up enforcement and auctioning, which was and is extended to the benefit of the banks. Not to the benefit of those who owe and those who mortgage their home. These were also in SYRIZA with previous law. There is now a new provision for the automatic reduction of the price of the first offer in the case of barren auctions. Who's this good for? I'll just say it. In the end, apart from the games that banks and investors play, all the crows that are gathered in the final analysis what will they do? They'll either take his house or his small business, a short time. In the big deals that happen are of another class. Literally, they'll take the labors of the whole life a year. Don't tell us that there is transparency and healthy competition. There's no healthy competition. Who are you kidding? Neither healthy entrepreneurship. Not everyone can benefit. Competition means the big fish eats the little one. One is trying to eat each other's share. That doesn't stop them or he'll stop the various crows. We know that from a lot of things that agrees with them beforehand. The competition's barren in the second round, and the price's dropping. Now this is the property of the world. It's not just public works. He's dropping the price and making deals and sharing who's getting what. What benefit, then, is this new arrangement, which automatically reduces the price of the first offer? I did not understand what you said. I didn't hear it right. If I understood correctly, you said that you were doing this to avoid making a court decision and to shorten the time. Who's benefiting? It either is for the banks and the others who want to take the homes of the world for free. Is it good or not? It's good for them. So what objective and independent justice? Fourth example, which literally makes an eye and demonstrates in a clear manner the classity of this law and of the previous ones. Of course, it proves what interests not only serve New Democracy, but also other parties. Just to say it more straightforward. What was the conversation? They're billing business. Of course, to open up a parenthesis and understand people, some of those who go bankrupt and shut down do so to go to Bulgaria. Others are closing, but the industrialist is a millionaire, not to mention a billionaire. Because we have the euro now. So these businesses are closing down. Who should first be compensated? This shows everyone's ideological identity. We say the workers, because without the workers, they don't work business. Does it work with the owner? Oh, no. That's what we said as a JRC, and that's what has to be done. But in a capitalist society, where it is believed that the driving force is businessmen and capital, that is not the case. Who were satisfied with previous laws? The banks were satisfied. Of course, there were also some 'private privileges'. It's taken. To compensate for the workers. Now what are you doing? You're taking it further. It was a bad call, and the donkey ate it. So now with the deadlines and what you are saying is changing. It will not take account of the time the auction is announced, but of the time taken. This is a dirty trick against workers - literally dirty - and workers must understand. You go and eat them what they deserved, even the previous one. That's what you're going to do now. Tell us why you brought it? Say a reason. For that very reason, to wash out all those who have money and steal sweat and blood from workers, as when the operation closes, possibly for one and two years until the auction takes place, they will be unemployed, they will get nothing. You are now coming with this change that you are making, when the auction takes place, to reduce their compensation time. Isn't that right? Yes or no? What kind of politics is that? Justice policy or barbarism toward workers, to those who spit blood and get 6 and 7 and 8 hundred and get unemployed, while they've given their whole lives and inflamed the unstoppable profits of businessmen? You come and you steal more! And that is shameful, but there is no shame in your policy and policy! I am therefore saying these examples, because our rapporteur, Maria Konnaka, has been detailed in everything and with arguments. But we did not hear an answer. What we hear is general theories, beautiful words and contours with SYRIZA, but also with others with whom you have common elements. You may differ in individual, but in essence, move in the same line. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we agree with what was said and what the Secretary-General said, namely that the bill is trying to solve problems of everyday life. That's right. The question is: for whom? For all the people? Well, I said: For example, who favours what you bring with auctions? The employer, the capitalist, the businessman or the workers? After you steal them raw from their pockets. You get them the rights they have. I told you a clear example, as were the previous examples. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u243	So it does not solve problems of everyday life. It solves problems of liberation, of total immunity of the interests of capital and entrepreneurs. You're told by Pissaridis, who's an ideological guide. That's the big deal. Secondly, Mr Loverdus of New Democracy - because there is Andreas - who left, said that justice is intended to protect the weak. Well, that's where they laugh! Here's a laugh! Do you have the impression that anyone believes that? Does anyone think that civil justice, class justice in capitalism, is intended to protect the weak? What are you talking about? What are you telling us? People are being killed here and in the end - they are not being compensated. Even those who were conquered within the civil system, what may have actually been conquered and recorded in law - because this also records 'fair', in introductory terms, the basic, the law of the system itself - you take it all back, you literally take it all back, you scan it, by continuing the policy of the previous governments, because private initiative must be liberated. We're not talking about shops, and we're talking about each other separately. The immunity of capital must be fully liberated. This is what you do in all areas, as in the environment you talk about. But I don't have time to talk about it either. I'm ending up with this. Something has been said about independent justice. There are some wake-ups of the Portuguese type. A month ago, he went and found my own speech and made two phrases, where I said that we cannot compromise with this civil justice because it serves the interests of the few and not the many. Because you are attacking us for independent justice, I come to a first point: is it independent? What does justice have to apply? The laws that the government is voting on. Which government? How much do you have in the majority of the Greek people? You don't even have 25%! In the majority of the Greek people you don't even have 25%! This is an incidental issue, as the regulations say. Nevertheless, you pass laws, you vote for the laws of Keramos, to which all the educational community, parents and students are opposite. So, is the law anti-linguistic? Is it or is it not against the will of the people? So justice is dependent on the legislative work done by the government, serving the interests of this system. Secondly, who appoints the head of justice? Tell us. The government in question. On what criteria? Objectively? Capacity? Don't hide behind our finger. We've had so many years and so many others before, and we're living them every day. Every government that comes out appoints their own. On what criteria, beyond rheology and such, which are not the essentials? The criterion is who will best implement its own policy. So who are we talking about? Of course, there are judges who fight, the Union of Judges, etc. So to finish and I too, we are not just questioning it, but we are against it. You know, because we're also taking this attack, we didn't understand well. We are voting against almost all the bills. That means that we do not accept this policy. Didn't we have the right? Because that's what some people mean. Should we go headed right and goose step? Oh, no! We are opposed, and that is why we say what we say about both your law and your law, and we say not to be implemented, undisciplined disobedience! Humanity did not go ahead with obedience. Or we'd be in the caves. He proceeded with the resistance, with disobedience, with the opening of new roads and the struggles. And to them, we'll be in the front line.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Pafile. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, the government was arrested once again in sleep. It proved unreserved to learn with the dramatic events that took place in Evia, and fortunately we did not have the water Pottery that had Pelion. Mr Ministers, I had in mind to begin differently, because I really believe that all parties in the democratic arch of the Greek Parliament believe that justice is a sovereign institution in whose presence we are investing, and we must all invest, in considering that through its proper, transparent and unaffected function, what we call fairness is guaranteed. But I heard you on an intervention attacking Census in a smug way. So, you're tempting me. Mr. Ministers, did the trespass circuits operate in the SYRIZA period? Or have you forgotten? In 2013, when you voted for the infidelity of the bank's Golden Boys was SYRIZA government? In December 2019, Minister, when you voted on the relevant provision, which exempted the bank boards, the speaker had submitted two monthly reports to Arion Ice in 2012, on the seas of the last 15 years and on how the sacred money of the insurance funds was used in the context of the PSI and that the Greek people never learned whether or not they were purchased bonds from the primary or secondary market. Not to say what followed with the financial institution's board of directors, not to say what happened with the Piraeus Bank's board of directors and not to say what happened lately with the subsidiary's board of directors. You come with a style of fifteen Cardinals and address the Civic Opposition. I believe that the Minister for Justice must maintain both sobriety and a style, which ensures from all the sides of this House that there is a dialogue, when such drafts are introduced, which really must come to its forefront, a dialogue as wide as possible, so that we can really add what we can add. I think that no one doubts the problems of justice, the great delays, the limitations which have often caused the public to suffer from large tax cases and a number of issues which have to do with efficiency. We also have the great problem of pluralism that we all confess. In 2016, Minister, we voted with Mr.4369 in Article 40 on codification of legislation and the current government continues to do so. It does well, because perhaps through the codification of legislation we can also relieve justice from situations which make it difficult for the positive development of its work. As far as the draft law is concerned, Mr Minister, the provision of Article 2 is now attempting to establish the so-called 'political trial'. A similar provision was adopted in 2011 at the request of the Troika in relation to the area of administrative law. With this provision you say that you will make a significant contribution so that there will be better and more effective promotion of cases. However, if you watch all the wings of the House, there are strong objections to the role that this institution can play, to how it will effectively marginalise the other jurisdictions of courts and how it will actually create problems by serving out-institutional centers. It is an issue which you must take very seriously in mind. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In Article 3, on wheels, Mr President, in conjunction with Articles 24 and 25, we have a limitation on the principle of hearing and witness evidence, and this puts us on suspicion that the cases will not be dealt with in depth and in width. In Article 21, Mr Minister, we are asking for the procedure of jurors to be removed from the jurisdiction of the courts and for lawyers and notaries to go to lawyers and notaries other than lawyers of the parties. In Article 61 we have a reintroduction of Article 938 of the Code of Civil Procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by two final articles and thank you for your patience. A part of Article 938 is reintroduced, which in essence protects the process of securities, but leaves it to their fate, allowing a procedure in which we are suspending execution and have at the same time delays in the promotion of the procedures, thereby threatening the loss of real estate. In Article 62, when one of the parents is prevented from coming into contact with his child, you are replacing his ability to appeal to the courts, with a curator to whom you are giving judicial authority. There are too many questions. I close, Mr President, with Article 68, where, in conjunction with the Banking Code, we have two auctions and we go without a court decision to a third party, with a reduction in the initial price to 80% again without a judicial decision, we go to a fourth auction, which reduces the initial amount to 65%. This puts us in too many concerns that various funds will be served, which really threaten to grab "bier" the property of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr Ministers, I think it would be extremely useful, before the procedure was closed, to hear Parliament's views. They were heard from all the wings of useful opinions, which, in fact, if they were to be taken into account, will make this legislation more powerful. That is why I would again like to address you and to tell you to see it with open horizons and to be receptive to the remarks which really strengthen this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr Kurubli. The Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Villardos is called in Stepma. Also prepare Mr Savvas Snowides from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. You said, of course, that I should speak before Mr KKE's colleague, but he seems to be a privileged party and his party in general. It is no coincidence, after all, that he can and will send out Members of the New Democracy if they dare to speak to him, something which at least has become clear to me. He was right, however, to say that big fish eats the little, while people are good to be judged by their actions and not by their words. I hope he's listening to me. If not, move him along with my "thank you" for his kindness. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the rapporteur for the Greek Solution has been thoroughly mentioned in committee today, as far as the bill is concerned. So we'll be confined to just some parts of it. However, we will start from the fact that Greek justice, apart from the sad fact that it is not independent, presents another extremely serious problem. In particular, it is not treated by the political system as a tool to guarantee justice and its rapid award among citizens, but as a mechanism, on the one hand, to collect revenue from the State, on the other, as a body for the survival of professional groups around this area. If this approach does not change then there will be no real administration of justice in Greece, something that we must care about all, especially the Ministry, which is its immediate priority. Furthermore, the difficulty in bringing justice to fruition obviously contributes to pluralism and bad legislation, especially in a country such as Greece, which is characterised by a variety of laws and amendments. The reason is that in our home country it is considered wrongly to be a successful minister producing many laws, and it should have been the one applying existing laws correctly and effectively. In other words, it is observed that the phenomenon is superficially altered and hundreds of older laws, just to amend them, while at the same time, there are multiple misguided interests. This is the case in today's bill, which promotes changes in the Code of Civil Procedure in formal terms, for the seemingly, unfortunately without any substantial acceleration in the efficiency of justice with unfortunately few exceptions, which our rapporteur, Mr Mylonis, said. On the contrary, as a Greek Solution, we have specific realistic proposals for the restructuring and modernisation of Greek justice, so that the citizen feels safe and adequately protected - this is the most important one - and even more so for everyone, regardless of whether they are ordinary citizens or individuals with power and power. It is only in this way that a state can function properly and that social cohesion is not jeopardised, which we all have to be interested in. Especially with regard to the political trial, proper procedural rules should be introduced so that the case brought before the courts is a unity, both in criminal law and in its civil law, of a single decision. In this case, a procedure must be adopted with the involvement and responsibility of the judge and not just of the private parties. This judge will have to hear the parties in the proceedings, in the context of the investigation of their intentions, as well as of their legal and factual arguments, which we are sure would lead most of the cases to a compromise, before the final discussion of the case, as is already the case in many developed countries. In addition, he should be fully responsible for the proceedings, requesting that the critical evidence be provided, as well as further clarifications on a number of vague points, before the case is even considered mature for discussion and decision-making. In this way, on the one hand, civil proceedings would be shortened by participation in the preparation of the case and the court itself, on the other hand, would be definitively eliminated as a result of the rejection of actions and claims as vague and unacceptable. These are, of course, the real reforms that our country needs, not bills like today, which absolutely makes no sense to its vote. On the occasion of today's plenary and because we are always trying to talk about the draft laws that are being discussed, even as Parliamentary representatives, we shall cite some of the positions of the Greek Solution, which are generally about justice. First of all, we believe that justice is a key pillar in the creation of a healthy national state, as well as a healthy national society, because fair legislation and the proper administration of justice strengthen social cohesion, economic development and social ultimately well-being. Unfortunately, if we look at the polls a little carefully, we will be surprised to see that some of us that Greek justice is unfortunately very low in the Greeks' appreciation, which, of course, cannot and must not be one government satisfied, while documenting that many things do not work at all in our country. For example, our friend lawyer, who had the misfortune to take on a contractor case, had started the case in 2007 without having succeeded until now, about fourteen years later, to close the case and finally get his reward. In fact, his case has already been filled with five thousand ten days, a huge period of time, without justice yet being done, so that the parties are in constant anxiety and that there is tension between them, while the lawyer has not even received his payment, as we said before. How will that man live? Do we really feel well about this picture of justice? On the other hand, who's to blame? The judges? Not, of course, since the judges simply operate by service and apply the laws which the governments concerned adopt, laws such as the current government, which the government has tabled to vote on, a law with minor changes, whose only meaning is that it produces legislative work by the government. Nothing more and nothing less. We have noted many times that the rate of trial in Greece is too slow, resulting in significant crimes being tampered with, criminals not being punished, while both natural persons and businesses cannot be justified. Of course, the shortages of staff and infrastructure have contributed to this chaos. However, the main guilty party is the legislation in force, without any real change being made. Thus, the time to deal with civil and commercial matters in Greece, in 2016, was on average six hundred seventy days from a hundred ninety days in 2012, when, for example in France, it was thirty-three days and in Romania, fifty-three days were on average, according to the figures we will submit later in the Minutes. Even worse was the time to deal with administrative matters, which in Greece in 2016 was on average a thousand eighty-six days, when in France it was three hundred six and in Romania, just a hundred seventy. So let us not wonder why Romania has exceeded us, as far as GDP is concerned, while we are much ahead of Romania about ten years ago. Isn't it a shame? Shouldn't this be the Ministry's care and not pre-formal bills like today's? In fact, on what criteria are the ministers judged, if not on such subjects as this? In particular, with regard to the legislation Babel, which unfortunately characterises justice in Greece, we will submit in the minutes the number of pages and articles of the laws, each year, for the period 2002 to 2016, as well as the ministerial and parliamentary amendments that were accepted. They're literally countless. As everyone can see, even if I am not a legal person - fortunately - this is an incredible occasion for which, if I were Minister and continued, I would have been embarrassed if I had not had the courage to resign. I'm saying this quite frankly. Furthermore, with regard to the proposals of the Greek Solution, we will start from the most basic, from the establishment of the Constitutional Court, so that any provision of a law which will be declared unconstitutional is invalid and powerless for all citizens as from the publication of the relevant decision or from the time laid down in the decision. It is also clear that the current system of monitoring the constitutionality of the laws by ordinary judges has proved ineffective, since it has not protected us from unconstitutional laws, nor from the anti-constitutional memoranda which the President of today, unfortunately, has judged us from the S.H.E., then as constitutional, nor, of course, has it protected us from harmful and undisputed international agreements, such as, clearly, that of the Ambassadors or from those for the reduced influence of our islands. We all understand what we mean. It is shameful for Greece that there is no constitutional court, because the domestic economic and political elite does not want to be controlled by the citizens when even Turkey or Skopje have a constitutional court. Next of our proposals, proposals from the Greek Solution, are the following: Firstly, the setting-up of a special committee, which will of course be directly controlled by the Prime Minister, and which will be made up of non-corruption judiciary now retired, with responsibility for monitoring and evaluating justice, highlighting problems, as well as making proposals for their resolution. Secondly, the creation of an electronic file in which the judgments of the courts throughout the country will be registered under the name of the judge who issued them. At the same time, on the basis of words - keywords, on the one hand, it is easy to find any decision - it is very important - to create a single legal database. I understand that no one listens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Kalematian, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u249	Thirdly, the creation of an integrated system for the management of judicial matters in political, administrative and criminal justice. Fourthly, the improvement and modernisation of the digital services of the Ice Bay, the Court of Auditors and the Council of State. Fifthly, the fight against the slowness of justice and the speeding up of procedures, as is the case in many other advanced countries, so that the proper and smooth return of justice is not prevented, in practical terms, from ending up in negligence. Sixthly, the direct recruitment of judges, as long as the existing judges are not sufficient - and are not enough from what we know - to judge the many pending judicial cases. Seventh, the creation of an electronic record and an electronic record of detainees from all the detention stores in the country. Eighth, the direct application and use of electronic means of monitoring of criminals, convicts and detainees on a licence. Ninth, the change in the law on life imprisonment in the sense that life imprisonment will be life sentenced rather than certain years, as, unfortunately, it is today, with criminals on the streets very soon. In addition, the following should be included in criminal offences, which would bring about a real life sentence: trafficking in drugs, abuse of public money, trafficking in human beings, paedophilia, of course, trafficking in human organs, participation in terrorist organisations, participation in criminal organisations and trafficking in illegal immigrants. Eleventh, as far as actions against judges are concerned, must be tried by a special court composed of other lawyers, of course, in the profession, other than the seat of the defendant judge. Tenth, adopt procedural rules so that the case brought before the courts is a unity, both in criminal law and in its civil law, for the adoption of a single decision of course. We cannot tolerate the phenomenon of conflicting criminal and civil decisions, it is unacceptable. Thirdly, the adoption of the procedure, as we analysed it at the beginning of our speech. We believe that it is extremely important in terms of speeding up the administration of justice. Fourthly, any complaints and requests to the contrary, as well as relevant cases, should be taken into account so that, on the one hand, the waste of time and expense of citizens is avoided and, on the other hand, any disputes should be settled uniformly. Finally, there should be serious consequences for those who use paralysing legal aids to delay trial - it is happening very often - so that they avoid the legal consequences of their actions and, of course, delay justice. To conclude, it is clear that none of the above we are proposing does satisfy this draft law, which certainly means that we cannot vote for it, even if we wanted it. What is lacking, and more generally than the government's bills, is vision and goals. Never exists, never see vision and goals in any bill submitted here, without which, without vision and goals, nothing can work in our country. With management governments, how much more when it comes to creditors' business, Greece will never have the future it deserves. Greece can have a wonderful future, as long as it has the right government, the one it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u252	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u253	In order to present a second text of legal improvements, until the Member who is to take the floor has come to the point, I should like to clarify that on the basis of Rule 88, which provides for the possibility of engaging lawyers in the mortgages, on the basis of the intervention of Mr. Dodecanese Mr. Ypsilantis, this possibility will also be given to Kos, Mr. Leros and Mr. Rhodes, and on the basis of what Mrs. Mani - Papadimitriou has asked for, to extend this possibility to all offices of the Greek Registry. I place it in the knowledge of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Minister. Please don't bother the ministers while they're talking to a colleague. There are pauses, at that time you can go tell them what you want, because it's not right for my colleague. He made his complaints, Mr. Villardus, he wasn't heard. Mr. Savvas Snowides from New Democracy is invited to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, today is another step. In recent times, we have seen that the Ministry of Justice has systematically submitted, in the order imposed by social conditions but also obligations, a series of bills to improve the daily lives of citizens and to give legal certainty at all levels: Family Law, Criminal Code and not just. So I see today that although there are objections, I would say, in the background I have not seen any particular objections or objections from anyone in this bill, rather than ideological reasons on the part of the Communist Party of Greece, where we agree, and what is being put forward is some reservations as to whether it will work. That's all about it. Really in every change we all have the reasonable reservation to see whether it works and how well it will work. This reservation also existed for L.4335 and it seems that it has been effective and that gives us an additional opportunity to move on to something that is absolutely necessary. It has also been heard that there is no other legal system for this pilot trial anywhere in the world. Good, even if there is no - which exists in France - so let us do things that are very interesting here too. Furthermore, I would remind you that on many issues the Greek Government and Kyriakos Mitsotakis went forward, with the Green Pass and with a number of other things, with the Ministry of Tourism, where he was the dear Parliamentary Representative and former Minister, Mr Theocharis, who was awarded a prize for the initiatives. In this sense, it is okay for us to take steps for sure in something positive, which others may copy. In this case, is it the pilot trial that will cause so many problems or deprive any citizen of the right to the law? The answer is clearly 'no'. There are too many cases where there may be common cases and there may be a better T-shirt - let me have the expression - so that the lawyer and the judge can step on. Just them? Oh, no. And citizens have a picture when lawyers from the few who are unconscious and what they sworn to lead them to a trial that they knew beforehand that they would not thrive and do so. It makes a minimal minority, too, but isn't there? So we are protecting the low income layers in this way and, of course, knowing even more, being informed of how they have evolved. It is very important, too - we have raised this issue here - that we need digital reform in general in the courts and the Ministry of Justice. A few months ago the Minister made a commitment. Today, then, these issues come so that we can take the self-evident steps. Of course, it has the modesty of both the Ministry and the Minister, unlike what some ministers like, who make arrangements and call them "reforms" and, indeed, great preoccupation. Here we see a modesty. So what does it say? That arrangements are being made on this particular framework which is necessary. And they're absolutely necessary, because life showed it. I've heard a lot of people since this morning. I remember Mr. Lappa, who said at some point that it takes fifty years to change a code and that it takes many years to think, etc. Really. There is, however, common sense and common sense in the legal world too. A person is speaking to you who is not a legal person, but has suffered the consequences many times of these delays or, anyway, of the shortcomings that existed in the process. So, we're gonna need so many years? What does it mean? That when you solve issues by timing and putting the knife where you have to do the surgery, is it bad? On the contrary, I'd say it's too good. So here, we give the simple logic, as I mentioned earlier about the assurances of engineers, who can say whether a house is arbitrary or not, why couldn't lawyers give a jury testimonies and you have to stand outside his office every peaceful court of law with suffering to make a sworn statement? Are there also more privileges given to the parties in time? It's clear and clear. It is important - and I believe that the Communist Party of Greece will also vote for this - that ISAH is now permanent. It was a very good initiative to raise this issue, because we really do not have the greatest comfort in terms of staff. Also, Minister, it is very important to speed up the recruitment of judges so that we can reach at least 80% of the average of countries which are high on this issue and I think we can achieve it. Efforts are already being made, but more needs to be done. What I must also stress is how we will be able to assess these delays that are being observed. We have heard here about what to do as a whole in justice. Of course, most of us agree. The issue is on the record. Will this be by magic in one day or step - step, as does the Ministry systematically do over the last two years? Clearly we need to take a step - step. Will there be objections and reactions? There will also be. As you disrupt, it creates the corresponding reactions. We say, therefore, that there is a significant improvement and upgrading of the existing legal framework and, of course, a system will also be needed, Minister, I put it as a general one, but it is essential - an assessment with specific criteria of efficiency, the production of judges' decisions. Because it's not just the lawyers or the parties with their terrain. From that point on, we need to move to a piece of evaluation. It is very important, then, that we step up the step. That's what the Ministry does, it does it systematically. I did not really want to go into the matter, because we were analysed by Mr Constantinidis, with his very good work and presentation, so that it could be understood to everyone and to everyone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to the part of the auctions, these are issues on which some have signed earlier obligations and we cannot say that we now have no memos. They are the result of signatures and no serious government can circumvent the signatures of the previous government. So it is hard, but there are protection indicators that will help in this heterogeneous relationship. And I close, Mr President, for always having your tolerance, and thank you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u256	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u257	It has also been said: in a heterogeneous relationship that exists, how will someone go directly to the Areo Ice, which is foreseen? Very nice. To date - what happened at primary level - didn't the strongest lawyer have? Didn't he have a better lawyer? Is it the Martian ice that will create a topic and worsen this heterogeneous relationship? No, of course not. And those who do not have the financial capacity - and unfortunately, there are a number of our fellow men, all of whom - there is the possibility of granting assistance from the Ministry of the Ministry of Aid so as to designate the one who will defend himself before the Ice Bay. In fact, I am sad when I hear in Parliament that 'and how will we rely on the judges' judgment of the highest and highest degrees?' So we need to dismantle everything. Surely there will also be few cases, natives where one does not perform his duties properly, as everywhere, but it cannot be said in here 'and how will the Areopagite judge, because he was appointed by the Minister?' They have no dignity, do they have no knowledge, are they not capable of what they do? What's going on? What kind of message are we going to get into the world? That everything is perforated. And justice. Thank you, Mr President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u258	You're welcome, Mr. Snowides. Thank you very much. The Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Theocharis Theocharis is called on in Step and Mr Kalamatianos is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speeches in the House, I insist that I try to find the resultant, to highlight what we agree and not to focus on disagreements. I'll try the same now. What we are talking about here is making it easier for us to have a bill. So let us agree: Justice is weak. Some say the big patient. I'll just say he's sick. The European Union's studies are clear. I've been urging you from the last one. Civil courts continue to operate inadequately, as the necessary time to resolve disputed civil and commercial matters continues to grow, six hundred nine nine days in 19 compared to five hundred ninety days in 2018. I remind you, two or twenty days in Germany. Moreover, the productivity of the former courts has not improved, with regard to the rate of liquidation and termination of civil and commercial matters, 86.2 in 19.86.3 in 17. We are last in relation to the number of pending cases. We're in the last positions with the highest times in dealing with cases. We are in the last place in the information on the judicial system. We are in the last place in public access. We are in the last place in the use of new technologies. In fact, I would also like to say to the dear Minister, Mr Chiara, to focus, if possible, on the collection of these statistics. It is difficult for these statistics, because justice does not produce easily and with reliable figures so that we can monitor progress. Secondly, time is the main factor in judiciary quality. A fair trial means a quick trial. That may be an explanation. There are those - we have heard Mrs Adamopoulou - who say that acceleration is an enemy of quality. Those who say so do not understand the quality of the judges, the quality of the prosecutors, the quality of our lawyers, who can and can decide properly, but also take advantage of the new procedures and new technologies for the benefit of the parties. Our rapporteur, Mr Constantinidis, said that quality and time are parallel, interrelated, that speed is developmental. And, of course, all that's right. I'll agree. But I'm going further. I will say that the primary factor in the quality of a trial is the short term of trial. When time for an irreversible judicial procedure to be completed is comparable to that of the parties, then we have a veto in practice. When our complex everyday life in both staff and professional sectors focuses on the management of time and the predictable completion of our efforts, time is exalted in a capital component. And to say it simply, because what we are doing here must focus on the daily lives of the citizen, when a citizen is wrong, does not say: "Let me not run to the courts, because the judges will be bribed and lost." He does not say: "The judges do not know the laws and I will lose." He says only: “Where am I getting involved? Until I have finished, it will be a gift of free will." This is the importance of trial time in the daily lives of the citizens. Time is their main demand. So if we agree with these findings, let's go further. In front of us, we have a bill that's realistic. It does not come iconoclastically to overthrow the whole political process, which would justify all these objections I have heard. I thought we were coming to change our entire justice system. The bill actually does three things. It protects, for example, the confusion of contradictory decisions will be reduced through the institution of the pilot trial. Protects the citizen. Secondly, it strengthens confidence, as its proper and brief award is the main factor of citizens' confidence in justice. And thirdly, it strengthens the protection of the weak, since it shields their last refuge, justice. It was heard by Mr. Loverdos too. The weak one needs justice. The strong man has what he wants. He's got money and he can do whatever he wants. But the bill, apart from being realistic, is also balanced. It gives rights, such as the partial reintroduction of the right to opposition to auctions, but also extends the deadlines in the ordinary procedure. If anyone listens to the Opposition, they'll think he'll only take rights away. Yet, there is no truth at all. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also agree to something else, that the bill achieves its objectives by simplifying procedures, for example, with the presentation of the parties with a declaration, which were judged in practice because they were needed because of the coronary and they succeeded. So he keeps successful procedures and procedures learned from lawyers, judges and all those involved in court proceedings. It succeeds in digitizing, for example, by expanding electronic media, performance, testimonies, digital signatures and others. Of course, it cures problems and gaps since the six-year implementation of 4335, for example, by correcting problems in the procedures of minor differences. In other words, it is reforming in practice. Reform is not always a radical change, it is also a continuous improvement in procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the issues that we have heard, most of the objections, if you like, to the heart of the provisions of this bill and which we have heard many objections from the Civic Opposition. Firstly, for the pilot trial, the institution has matured since its ten-year implementation in the administrative courts. Its extension is self-evident, in my view, an obligation of every Justice Minister who respects his position, and that is why we must say good to both the Minister and the State Secretary. We hear various objections to unconstitutionalism, which I can understand if someone comes from a - badly understood, but in any case - trade union logic for the profession. Some matter is lost, and obviously that doesn't suit some people. In reality, however, it suits the citizens, it suits those who will not have legal expenses for trials in which they actually have no luck. But from the opposition I personally don't understand. And to understand them, the opposition must answer some questions. First, did a constitutional court not create, as we are accused of doing, by the pilot trial in the administrative courts? Is it now being created? If it had been created and there was a risk, it would have already been created. Has the constitutionality not been judged, as the existing pilot trial has already been affected? The people of the Opposition know very well that it has been judged and the result is that it is a constitutional institution to the highest degree. Finally, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament always points out the suspicions of unconstitutionalism. We have experience here that the Scientific Committee of Parliament even a word if it is wrong, the title if it is wrong, says that this can be unconstitutional. It had happened with a pension bill. Now she does not mention anything in her report. Nothing says anything about unconstitutionality. So where does all this criticism of unconstitutionality come from? Things are, in my view, very simple. We have a constitutional court when it is the sole and authentic interpreter of the Constitution. The diffuse and incidental verification of constitutionality shall not be threatened if the decisions of the pilot trial are not binding. The second issue raised as very important is, of course, the auctions. The draft law first improves the issue of opposition and simplifies the process of price reduction when two auctions are declared barren. We have heard here tear analyses of farmers and financially weak ones. Mr Scandalides has even said that they will lose their fields and things like that. These objections are completely misleading, as things are not so complicated here. Firstly, the vulnerable, like the firefighters for six months after the disaster, are already protected by the provisions. The changes introduced by the bill are either positive, as in the case of opposition, or concern procedures that have already begun. In other words, the procedure beyond protection and in actual auctioning has arrived, and it is considered barren, once again. We are therefore not talking about protection judges who are at the beginning of economic procedures. Also, the starting price does not prevent us from having a great price. It's the minimum price. They may come by successful ones, who have the name and grace to pay the highest price. Finally, what is the point of involving the court in a formal process that must be completed quickly. As long as no bidders appear, this means only one thing: The starting price is inconsistent and auctioning needs to start from lower. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So in view of the above, all the criticism we have heard is out of the question, most of all, and it is not really based on reality. Ladies and gentlemen, since Law No.4335/2015 is the law of SYRIZA, it would lead you to vote in favour of the principle and the overwhelming majority of the articles of this bill. It's a pity that SYRIZA also loses this date consistently. It is a pity, of course, that the Greek people will remember. I would like to conclude by saying a few words about the current situation, in response to various issues that have been raised. Mr Pafilis raised the issues of the strike, doubled the numbers and, in any case, what he told us about the evaluation of all the Greek people. There is a difficulty in accepting the evaluation process. But it is a central political choice of the New Democracy that everyone must be evaluated in public too. We've heard a number of issues about the coronary, the accuracy. I won't expand. I want to close up with this: We were informed a moment ago that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is calling for a committee of inquiry into the financing of the media and for the company 'OPINION POLL', and indeed it links it to what was revealed in Austria. We heard it here, too, in the Chamber. We want to say a few things about it. First of all, we must say, for the Greek people to hear it, that the possibility of setting up a committee of inquiry by the minority is an initiative by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, after the last revision of Article 68. We therefore see in practice that we respect minority and give it rights, and we are therefore pleased that the minority wants to take advantage of that possibility. Of course, we must say that it is a good occasion to remember SYRIZA’s works and days, the works and the days of the four-year period 2015-2019. Why doesn't who remember the measurements from companies that got out of nowhere and were posted in friends of the upcoming newspaper to SYRIZA, who were showing the difference, just before the elections, in two and a half percentage points? Who doesn't remember the effort you've made to manipulate the contest with the media licenses? Who does not remember what has been revealed recently for underground financing routes in order to publish Mr Vaxebane's newspaper? If this committee is set up, it will therefore be a very interesting opportunity to remember all this. Because, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, they are laughing and the pastures are laughing at the issues you raise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u260	Thank you too, Mr Theochari. Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Mr. Xanthopoulou should also be prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have had a great deal of participation in the pan-educational rally all over the country. Thousands of people have declared their opposition to the vengeance of teachers. Thousands of people have declared their opposition to the judiciary of social struggles. It was huge, very great, participation and the whole world, teachers, students, parents, said that they wanted to strengthen public and free education and not to undermine it, as the Minister and the government promoted as a whole. We had the dramatic events yesterday, the tragic events in Evia with the floods. Since summer everyone and especially the scientific community have pointed out the danger to the floods immediately following the catastrophic fires in the affected areas. Unfortunately, the government has proved unable to deal with and prepare for the flooding phenomena, as it was unable to do with the destructive summer fires. It is also incapable of preventing economic and social destruction and desertification in the affected areas, in Evia, in Elijah and in all others. The so-called state finally proved to be ineffective once again. Great words, communication commitments and announcements prove very quickly empty content. What the government needs to do now is to show respect to all these people who have been affected by the destructive fires second and third times and to start, even now, directly targeted interventions, as the scientists have proposed, in order to address the flooding phenomena, to save property and not to jeopardise lives. If he does not, unfortunately, in the near future we will have too many problems. To justice now. Again splendid titles in bills, again the content of the bills doesn't justify these cunning titles. Is it really the aim of the bill to speed up justice? This is not the case with the proposed provisions, but we also see that the government's practice for more than two years is not intended to substantially upgrade justice. The delays in awarding not only reduce, but widen. The large gaps in the staff members’ organic positions in the courts are increasing. Digital transformation into justice has not gone as far as it should have been within the pandemic. Government support for lawyers is almost nonexistent. You gave the lawyers 600 euros, the vast majority of them, and nothing else. They've been closed for months for their courts and offices. You ignored them and you keep ignoring them. The courts have opened without any real measures. Citizens, lawyers and judges are stacked every day in courtrooms. The checks are typified to nonexistent, and they are undignified citizens and fellow lawyers standing in the huge tails at the entrance of the courts, the secretaries of the courts, the mortgages and the public services. I'm coming to the bill now. With Article 2, you enter the institution of the pilot trial into the civil courts. You are doing this in a form which is not in any legal order of the European Union. This procedure was applied in 2005 to German justice, but it did not have the widest possible scope under your own provisions. It has no universal application. It only applies to the differences on the capital market that are aimed at facilitating citizens to access justice, those who have suffered and been harmed by illegal medals. Here, you allow the Areo ice to deal with each case, even with cases at an early stage. Nor do you clarify the issue of general interest. Do these also involve issues of constitutionality? I have listened to my fellow Member earlier who referred to the pilot trial and the administrative court. It's a completely different process. The administrative courts have other provisions, other procedures. In the civil courts, there is the procedure at the hearing, the testimony, the facts and legal circumstances which are judged. If this finally applies to the broadness and generality promoted by the pilot trial, the Marios Ice will essentially be a quasi-constitutional court. Of course, this runs counter to the constitutional requirements of Articles 87(2) and 93(4) of the Constitution. It stipulates that there is a diffuse and incidental control of the constitutionality of the laws. This is also judged in the primary and secondary courts. If the pilot trial limits this constitutional check, it's obvious that it's unconstitutional. Already, Minister, the legal world discusses that the general and broad scope of the pilot trial is to clear to a first and lasting degree the cases of borrowers, workers, as well as workers claiming recognition of their real employment relationship, claiming remuneration benefits, etc. The lower courts have adopted decisions protecting our borrowers and labour rights and vulnerable fellow citizens. Each case has different features. The primary and secondary courts, by judgement on the facts, are entitled to those who are right. Questions are being raised about what the pilot trial will serve in these cases and, if it is not binding, why there are delays in this process? The problem is the provision of Article 3 which abolishes the principle of orality in the civil proceedings and is maintained only in insurance measures and matrimonial disputes. Furthermore, in Articles 24 and 25, testimonial statements are limited excessively. You shall, on the one hand, reduce the sworn statements which may be undertaken in accordance with Article 22 and, on the other hand, limit the oral examination of witnesses before the Court's seat. It is a pretext - lawyers are aware of it - that witness testimonies help to form a judicial crisis and make good judicial decisions. The question is why it is limited. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I come to the provision of Article 68. It is clear and clear who and what you want to serve. It provides that a court decision is not required to reduce the first offer price after two fertile auctions. The article, of course, follows on from the new bankruptcy law that leads to the liquidation of the property even of the first residence of the borrowers and, of course, is also linked to the acceleration of the remaining members of the Katseli Act. You can understand that there is a risk of auctioning houses and businesses charged with red loans at very low prices, at degrading prices. The question here is specific: What will prevent the bidders from waiting for the price to drop to the next auction, to the fourth auction, and then to be auctioned? So you understand that, with this manoeuvre, property will come to the hammer for a few thousand euros. All this, of course, cannot but be eliminated with another government, a progressive governance, which will prioritise the interests of borrowers, workers, the weaker, and not just the interests of banks and the gloomers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Kalamatiano. MEP George Mulkiotis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad, from 19 October 2021 to 26 October 2021, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u263	The House approved the requested permission. Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, has the floor. Then Mr. Spanakis will speak from New Democracy. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u265	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u266	The juncture requires us to begin, because we are talking about a bill by the Ministry of Justice, with what is happening in Austria and with the resignation of Chancellor Kurts, who is accused - listen - of manipulating SMEs and polls, that, with a million euros from the Treasury, he has made good use of and safeguards for him by the media. It is melancholy the comparison for the Greek political system. What we legalists know is the decision and the view expressed by Mylon of Potsdam, when Friedrich of Prussia demanded his mill, he told him the famous phrase: "There are judges in Berlin." The Greek people are asking themselves today: are there judges in Berlin? Secondly, Minister, we are talking today about the Code of Civil Procedure. You returned to your favorite theme of the 2019 Criminal Code that SYRIZA made the bribery a wound. I mean, you know, SYRIZA didn't make any bribes. SYRIZA has the political responsibility to bring the whole code, as it was processed tops of legal science, and to introduce it to the Greek Parliament. If you consider that individuals of the range of Argyropoulos or Ilias Readingsopoulos have been eligible for a minor offence, you have the responsibility. And since you may not understand, I would like to tell you that, as in your area, you have forms like Luro, like Matsaniotis, that range are these people. So don't come here and blame SYRIZA on this kind of thing. Besides, soon the Criminal Code will be here, and there we will take the swords out of our shelves and oppose them on a scientific and political level. But I say it because we can agree. Restore it with an obsession while you are wrong on the subject of the 2019 Criminal Code. And that will prove ever again, as we lawyers say, in the forthcoming process where we will now talk about the scope of the changes. I imagine - I am referring to this - you will not dare bring 191 in the way you invented and thought to bring it. I'm going in on our way. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the Code of Civil Procedure is basically regulated by Law.4335/2015. It is a law passed by the SYRIZA government under a regime of Memorandum commitments and compulsory enforcement. And the fact that it was SYRIZA's law does not take away the responsibility of all of us to see if the law gave rise to it. Come and tell us. First of all, you do not have an opinion from the administrative plenary of the Ice Bay. We have been hampering this since we talked to the committees so far. Secondly, there has been a committee which would monitor the implementation of Law No.4335 for the first three years and reach some conclusions. I have asked for the conclusion of this committee to see if what you are saying is compatible. Are we slapping? Are you wrong? Until today, this finding has never been seen. But what we have to agree on, so that you do not hypocritically cover behind the 'project', since SYRIZA voted for it, because it is protesting, is whether the abolition of the orality of the procedure creates favourable conditions for the adoption of substantive and correct decisions. That's the point. If the abolition of the orality and the annulment of the testimony at a hearing, where the witness is facing before the judge-in-Office and the lawyers present and proves or is manifested by the contradictions and attitudes of the body and the delay in the answer and the way in which the truth or not his claims are answered, therefore, if the regime in force by the Maurer procedure, the retribution to Law 4335 has favoured the adoption of the right decisions, we should discuss and say that, yes, it is good, we leave it and move on. If it has not favoured it, we can see how we can actually intervene in order to make good decisions in the courts. I would like to quote, and I would like to say that you are being persecuted by a huge stress with the acceleration. We all understand very well, and I, first of all, as a lawyer, have had the honour of being a nine-year president of the Drama Bar Association, and I am about forty years behind the law, I understand very well that it is really a veto to delay the decision. That's a real danger. But there is equally a risk that decisions will not be taken in accordance with the conditions of the law and the demands of society. And when a judge deals with a case based on the sworn statements made by proxy lawyers, we have serious evidence to contradict and to consider whether this scheme is a one-stop shop in order to make good or decision decisions from the end and from the beginning have the presumption of 'absence'. So that is what we have to deal with, and do not hide that you voted for N.4335 and now you come and tell us more. We're not saying but. We are talking about judging the need to apply substantive rules for the administration of justice, because this is a matter for us all. Today it is you, tomorrow it will be us, and tomorrow it will be someone else in the government headquarters. But justice and the quality of justice go horizontally through the needs of society and we need to look out for it because it goes beyond us and it is not a matter of government, micro-group or opposition tactics. I come to the components of the bill. The pilot trial is a keynote confrontation. We have expressed all our disagreements at scientific and political level and we are telling you that you are homogenising different things. The fact that this institution operates under administrative law and has been successfully implemented in the St.E. does not mean, by analogy, that it will also be successfully implemented in the Area Ice. Marios Ice is an annulling court, it is a court which judges disputes that have nothing to do with the S.E.A.'s actions. the standards of the pilot trial. And just because there was a controversy with the rapporteur and his majority colleague, I have said that at least if you are determined to introduce this new institution, do not give the right to any individual individual to appeal to the Marital Ice, to the Council or to the prosecutor to decide on the need for a pilot trial or not, because he will be hampering the system. That's what we tell you to think about. Alongside the functioning of the committee, which consists of the most probablely valid people to judge where the prosecutor, the President of the Ice Bay, is the President of the Ice Bay, where he knows very well the subject of the dispute, a single body, which is a public prosecutor of the Ice Arena, who will judge himself if a case has the details of the standard proceedings. Because you don't trust the collective organ. Why are you being persecuted again by the idea of acceleration and speed? Since all three can and have the guarantees to decide more correctly and have scientific training and knowledge to do so more fully. Consequently, the operation of the single representative body, which is a prosecutor of the Ice Bay, creates additional stumbling blocks. Finally, you also create additional stumblings in the very institution of the Ice Award, because the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena has a supervisory role of prosecutors throughout the country and you charge him to judge individual requests where each individual considers that he will sooner find his law to be addressed and he will also charge the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena with independent, basically, tasks. No matter why? Because while there is all the structure of justice that is ready to judge, you choose to take the prosecutor off the front line and judge him if it is a pilot or not a trial. You create a insert of jurisdiction, an emblem of jurisdiction among the existing ones, and this will create further problems. We have told all of them at all the meetings of the committees and you still do not respond to these problems that we are also putting them on a good footing. And we say it will not work, it will worsen the situation even though we are opposed to this story. Finally, because I said a lot, it is not possible to pass this system of automatic adjustment down to the value of the auctioned property. You understand that the man who loses his property needs an external institution to tell him that "It doesn't cost that much. It costs so much' and will therefore be auctioned. It is very important that he has the right to appeal and ask for judicial protection and not in an automated way for his property to go to the hammer. These are the main objections and basic arguments we have. That is why we are voting against the principle, because you are, essentially, energetic in the whole process of judiciary. As far as the implementing procedure is concerned, you also remove the last argument that someone has in order to find protection in the court and that is to say he has not made an application to suspend execution against the executive procedure against his property. With all the information I have described before you sincerely, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, when you are in front of your conscience how will you justify your positive vote in this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, too. In Stepma, Mr. Vassilis Spanakis from New Democracy is called and Mrs. Rallia Christidou is prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. We are done with the parliamentary representatives and we are going to the seven minutes of the speakers normally to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss a draft law by the Ministry of Justice, but at the same time we have very important amendments to refer to the second part of the position. Today we are discussing a draft law by the Ministry of Justice aimed at improving the justice system. We are mostly talking about times of trial, and it is something that we all agree on over time. Is our country still in the last positions on the speed of justice? Unfortunately, yes. Have we made an improvement? Have we taken some steps? Yeah. Do we still have enough work to do? Clearly, yes. After all, the rapid administration of justice is a key pillar of a modern rule of law. A sound judicial system increases citizens' confidence in the state and institutions, strengthens the sense of law and represents respect for human rights. To this end, today's draft law contains provisions on speeding up the political trial, incorporating new technologies and digital tools, we have the introduction of the model or pilot trial, and it is also laid down as permanent arrangements that had been implemented during the pandemic as emergency measures and which have proved to be effective. In Part I of the Bill we have a number of amendments to individual provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. The current legislative framework, Law No.4335/2015, brought several improvements in the times of judgment in the country's primary courts, even in the largest courts, such as, for example, the Court of Athens, the Court of First Instance and the Thessaloniki Peace Court. However, the signs still present a problem were identified. The differences in the achievement of the objective of speeding up cases were mainly found in some parts of the major courts in the country, in which case the amendments to the provisions were deemed appropriate. I will not speak in detail, as my fellow lawyers and the majority rapporteur have already done so. However, I shall refer to Article 2 in which the institution of the pilot trial is expanded and to civil matters. There has already been the successful model in administrative justice since 2010. This speeds up the process of giving political justice, which is, moreover, a key objective of today's draft law. Below Article 8, in order to clear part of the costs of the proceedings where there is reasonable doubt as to the outcome of the proceedings, is a reintroduction of a rule which had been abolished, as it was noted that the relevant possibility of offsetting costs was abused. However, the universal abolition also raised doubts, so it reintroduces the possibility of a judge to set aside part of the costs in the event of reasonable doubt. We have also kept the billboard online with the courts which have entered the 'integrated judicial cost management system'. Articles 24 and 25 regulate the new procedure for minor disputes. Here too, we have had considerable delays in the adoption of the relevant decision, particularly in the country's major peacehouses. The proposed amendments introduce simpler procedures and select tested and successful arrangements such as a rapid identification of tactical, drastic cancellation restriction, non-declaration, call of the party from the sign and adverse consequences of libertarianism. There is also provision for the parties to attend the new procedure. However, if they agree, they may submit only a joint declaration and a new simplified written procedure is provided for using a standard form or electronic means. Other digital interventions introduced are, for example, electronic identification, electronic submission of documents by electronic signature, the possibility of electronic registration, the withdrawal of the addition, the invitation of the party by e-mail to complete any omissions, the electronic signature of the arbitral decision and its electronic deposit and many others. We also have in Part II of the Bill the provision for the participation of the Supreme Judicial Council of Administrative Justice and the Supreme Civil and Criminal Justice Council in the European Network of Judicial Councils and the annual contribution to cover expenditure relating to their work is provided for. Articles 86 and 87 are very important, which regulate matters of judicial officers who are working for an indefinite period of time. It is therefore foreseen that they will be integrated into the permanentisation process and that their insurance arrangements are regulated. In particular, those who have permanently been given the opportunity to choose whether to join the new insurance scheme, which is the one of the permanent judicial officers, or whether they want to remain in what they had before the permanentisation, in order to continue their working life uninterruptedly without any suspicion of losing their basic insurance rights. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned at the beginning of my position, today there are important amendments, important amendments which we all have to vote for, and the draft law that I have outlined earlier. We have the amendment from the Ministry of Interior on the payment of employees' pay for the action 'harmonisation of family and working life', the amendment on the exercise of powers of municipal authorities. It is an important provision to modify at the time the municipalities exercise powers under existing administrative support. For the definition of unpaid anti-corporate in municipalities or municipal units that have been declared in an emergency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some more time. We also have an important amendment to reincorporate pandemic wounds into debt arrangements. And I ask: will the opposition vote against this provision today? We have an amendment to extend public contribution time for the repayment of loans with collateralists in the main home for borrowers affected by the pandemic and many others, such as the amendment concerning the recruitment of temporary substitutes for nurses, the recruitment of temporary substitutes for infant-children. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time to take a step forward and this bill entitled 'Rapid political trial, adaptation of the provisions of the political procedure to digitize justice policy...' goes one step ahead of the country, takes a step forward in the process of serving citizens. And here I close my position, Minister, since I congratulate you and your State Secretary and your staff on the excellent work you have done, I must tell you that it is time for us to proceed with an extension of the pay order and, in the event of the end of the lease, so that we can speak of a rapid political trial and, above all, of speeding up procedures so that there is no suffering. It is a constant request from the Pan-Hellenic Real Estate Owner Federation, which must either today or at any particular moment adopt it in order to avoid unjust suffering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr Spankee. The speech is made by Mrs Rallia Christidou by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and Mr. Constantine Maravegias from New Democracy is being prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in today's bill to refer to two articles, namely 62 and 68, two extremely serious articles that have reasonably caused not only the criticism of the SYRIZA, but also the other anti-population parties, but also the concern of most representatives of civil society, at least those who have informed what you are planning. I'm starting with Article 62. It is reasonable if one of the divorced parents considers that he is prevented from communicating with the child, being able to resort to justice. By order, as you brought it in its original form, you attempted to replace the court by a judicial curator, in which, in violation of all reasonableness, you gave judicial authority. The judicial caretaker shall be paid by a private person and under no circumstances shall he acquire jurisdiction to testify to facts, if there is an impediment, if the obstruction is justified or unjustified. The judiciary has neither legal training nor experience and does not have the necessary impartiality, if you wish. The provision annulled the right to hear the voice of the child independent of age in all the procedures relating to him and facilitated the parent over and above all with the greatest economic surface. He's usually the most prosperous father. This created a climate of threat, a climate of intimidation, to the detriment of women and minors. Without finally resorting to the curator, the economically strongest parent, had in his hands another weapon, another way to make the life of the other parent, usually the mother, through his threats. This is a regulation that you have tried to follow up the law on family law, which you brought a few months ago. You retreated today a little while ago in plenary, here. You have replaced the word 'confirmed' with the word 'identified'. We think it is better to draw up a report, but we welcome the improvement in the wording you have introduced by removing the word 'confirms' from the article. The removal became successful because of the more general reaction that it encountered from all sides of the opposition, but mainly from the female movement. But honestly I really find it hard to understand how far-reaching you have tried to legislate, how far away from every concept of law, how you initially proceeded to the arrangement. We all remember the advertising campaign that had flooded the media and all the other means about the right of both parents to raise the child. This has shown us the large economic sizes that clearly affect the thought of project makers in your ministry. But so much monolithy now? So insistent? So much indifference to elementary balance in the administration of justice? Repeat what we told you as SYRIZA and the previous Conscience Legislation Legislation. We need to make that clear. We are in favour of the right to take part in the rearing of both parents. But above all we are in favour of children’s right to grow up in a way that respects their needs and mental peace. Do you choose to ignore these children's needs? And at the same time you pretend to ignore the deep roots of the patriarchy that still exist in Greek society, as you pretend to be ignoring the racial violence that exists in the Greek family? Already with what you have legislated you have increased the focal points among divorced couples. With Article 62, instead of reducing this tension, you have attempted to undermine another judiciary that existed in our judicial system, ultimately undermining the citizens' confidence in justice. Even if somehow you are collecting it with the so-called legislative practice, we actually think that in your main retreat once again you wanted to legislate in a clear and classic form. Don't doubt it. All interested parties and all interested parties are aware of these objectives. And all this while we've reached eleven feminine murders this year in our country. But there's also Article 68 in the bill. The provision provides that a court decision is not required to reduce the first offer price after two fertile auctions. In so far as there are two fertile auctions, the third comes out with a first offer price equal to 80% of the initially fixed price. If the third auction is fruitless, then the fourth one will begin with a first offer price equal to 65% of the initially fixed. All this shall be done automatically without a court ruling. This article, in conjunction with the new bankruptcy code you voted against, risks auctioning houses and businesses at very low prices. Acquisitions will come to the hammer for a few thousand euros. The debtor shall not be granted the protection required to challenge the prices after the initial auction before a court, in particular where a change in the value of the property has taken place in the interim. It is a provision that will cause multiple social problems and will work in favour of specific circuits legalised by you for speculation. Our rapporteur has also asked you to take this provision back, especially in a period of major economic crisis due to the failure of economic measures and decisions that you have taken during the pandemic. The market is squeezing under the weight of accumulated debts and you, instead of the help hand, give it another push toward the cliff. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with this, Mr President, a great pan-educational rally was held in the streets of Athens and other cities in the country. Very soon on the part of teachers, there will be many more categories of citizens who feel in their daily lives the ruthless results of your policies. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the way you legislate, do not be surprised by the reaction you will encounter more and more from now on. Because your greedy days have come to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. He never escapes time and always consumes him only in the bill. Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by stressing the progress made a few days ago in the field of the placement of the Grand Chamber, finally. On 29 September the Ministry of Justice proceeded to submit the final request to the General Secretariat of the Public Property Office to grant the necessary property free of charge. This is an important step that is credited to the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice and to the Minister of Justice personally. It is a necessary step to move forward in the next phase, which is the opening of a tender for the construction of the judiciary by means of a public-private partnership. It was not an easy process, and we all knew it in Magnesia from the beginning. The bill under discussion is based to a large extent on the positive lessons learned by justice from the pandemic period. Experiences which the relevant Ministry very rightly chooses to transform into permanent measures to speed up the award and political justice. A characteristic field is the incorporation into the Code of Civil Procedure and the use of new technologies by both judicial services and parties for the digitisation of procedures, such as electronic maintenance of the plate, electronic submission of documents bearing electronic signature, service of documents by electronic means, electronic invitation of the party to complete formal omissions and the possibility of electronic writing or revocation of pre-notifications. The introduction of the standard or pilot trial in the Areo Ice on issues of general interest is also extremely important in order to speed up the administration of justice policy and strengthen legal certainty. The pilot trial resolves issues that cause a significant number of trials and avoids the risk of conflicting decisions or the perpetuation of the trials with adverse consequences for citizens. This measure follows the successful model of the pilot trial in administrative justice and has therefore already been tested in practice. That is why I cannot understand the opposition of the Opposition to this institution that has proved to be able to resolve new and difficult questions of interpretation which concern a large number of parties. Therefore, it can lead first of all to a substantial acceleration in the performance of justice and also to the uniform application of the same rules of law. So why does anyone have to disagree with the obvious? The same incomprehensibility in my view is also the opposition of the Opposition and of two other clearly positive measures: the new simplified procedure for minor disputes and the widening of the parties' representations by a simple statement. These are practical interventions to facilitate citizens without any ideological significance. For example, I do not understand how a party can disagree with the rapid definition of a law, restricting the debate and not postponing such cases. In addition, arrangements shall be made, such as the taking of affidavits without a call from the other party, the reply of the defendant in a simple record and the limitation of the performance at the audience, the potential provision of clarifications on the facts. The possibility of a joint declaration by the parties on their non-representation in the proceedings of the special procedure, of voluntary representation in the second degree and of consensual preambles is also regulated. Article 12 amends the Code of Civil Procedure by introducing the new improved regular procedure. The rules in force provide for proposals to be tabled within a hundred days of the lodging of the case and in a hundred and twenty days, when the expert is a party to the proceedings. The new regulation, however, provides for a period of 30 days for the proceedings to be filed for service and for a period of 90 days for submission of proposals, i.e. a total of eighty and eighty days for foreign residents and the possibility of submitting supplementary proposals in cases where the diagnosis of the dispute depends on a legal relationship or nullity which is the subject of another pending trial in a political, administrative or criminal court or authority which affects the diagnosis of the dispute. Minister, the lessons of pandemic and in the field of political justice have been of great benefit in the long term. In addition to the above simplifications and the successful digitisation of several procedural steps, the relevant Ministry adopts permanent arrangements, such as the house redefinition for cases not discussed due to force majeure. The same applies to the possibility of obtaining a solemn declaration from a lawyer, as to the maximum number of oaths per party. At the same time, the time-limits for the adoption of judgments on interim measures shall be abolished and transitional arrangements shall be laid down for outstanding administrative differences that the parties may refer to courts near to their place of residence. Thus, the already overloaded Administrative Court of Athens is dismantled and citizens are facilitated in their search for legal protection. I shall conclude, Mr President, by emphasising the social importance of the two amendments tabled by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance. The fact that Mrs Keramos extends social law to a housing allowance measure and to students in public IEK demonstrates the sensitivity of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, indicating that the New Democracy remains close to the young people. The same social sensitivity is demonstrated by the Ministry of Finance by extending and extending a number of measures in favour of the pandemic affected, such as the extension until the end of October of the final date for the reintroduction of debts in regulations lost due to krone, the additional contribution of EUR 37 million from the Greek State to the repayment of loans with collateralists in the main residence of borrowed borrowers, as well as the extension until the end of the year of the restructuring period of a non-performing debt of an applicant subject to the ‘GSPH 2’ programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All of these measures, together with the other commitments of the Prime Minister at the PPC, such as the 800,000 tax exemption for the parental benefits already implemented or incorporated into the State Budget of 2022, confirm the huge difference of credibility between Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Alexis Tsipras. Because they may both go to Thessaloniki and announce economic measures, but only one of them does what they promise and the Greek people know well who this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u273	And we thank Mr. Maraveya. And now, Mr. Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis from New Democracy is called to Stepma and Mr. Papaliou is prepared by the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mr. Highlands, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin today's speech as a human being and not as a legal lawyer and a lawyer for the act for thirty years. I want to condone Tasos Kourakis' family and SYRIZA's colleagues for his loss. I had the honour to meet him and to see his noble character and the high political culture he had. The fact is that in our country we have been trying to find footprints so that we can safely overcome situations in which the area of justice has been concerned for many years and to find a solution to the great issue that is not only the maintenance of its organisation and functioning in an independence regime, but also the fact that the judicial system must respond rapidly to the scale of the disputes that it receives. Together, however, with this effort on the independence and effectiveness of justice, as I said very quickly, there is a third very important, in my view, which is also the quality of the judicial work. The simultaneous pursuit of all three components, as pointed out in a very important study - a survey carried out by the 'International' Agency for Justice - is a problem for very strong solvers, as it requires a constant vigilance of the government, legislator and courts for the promotion of policies, the adoption of measures, the safeguarding of infrastructure and instruments and the rational management of judicial materials, so that quality justice can be given by independent judges in reasonable time. With regard to all this effort and the course of the Ministry of Justice, I will be tough on a matter that goes back, but we have to say what is good to highlight and to hear it and the Greek people, because today we hear things say about teachers' strikes as well as about ideological differences and other things rather than about the substance. We must, therefore, say that this whole course of about two years is a course that tends to what I foretold. With important legislative interventions, and this draft law serves this need, since its basis brings improvements to the substance of a law, which was implemented in 2015, by Law No.4335/2015 at its base. I would also like to say that once we have received this report from the European Commission, we see that too many important elements have improved very much. That, if you wish, is also a great expectation, but also the good news that we are hearing and studying in this Chamber today. However, I will only focus on some of the provisions that my colleagues have mentioned. Furthermore, even the process of judging the appeals of the pacifists by a person and even increased prestige, such as the President-in-Office, is an important improvement. It is something that I believe will help with the proper and rapid administration of justice. The issue of the pilot trial, which, as foreseen, comes to strengthen confidence in the law from an increased, if you like, view that will come from within the Marble Ice. And it is a statement of a particular opinion on a matter which the court or the parties to come, when and in the proper manner in which it is put into the whole piece of legislation. What I wanted to say, however, too, is what the report itself stipulates that we can these new stages, Minister, these new forecasts that we are putting and setting up, linking them directly to their digital dimension. This whole process of political trial could be directly linked in a way, if you want, to monitor digitally, so that the parties and the Areos Ice can follow it, and that this type of digital cooperation and information can be done at that level, but above all those who are interested in the outcome. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Because I have just one minute, I would also like, together with all the other important things that I have put forward and mentioned, to improve justice in our country through these provisions, to point out the following: firstly, it is a good thing that new lawyers, which you anticipated, Minister, should be, on my proposal - and on the registers of Rhodes, Kos and Leros. It's something very important. You also extend it to the land registers throughout the country, and I hope that we will find it in the future. But what I must also ask of this Step by you, Mr Minister, is that of the Rhodes Land register. Despite the efforts that have been made both by you and your colleagues, the State Secretary, and also by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Justice, what is happening with the Rhodes Land register must be final and irrevocable. This provision, as it is now being introduced, in order not to be declared inadmissible, will not make things easier. We've got to get this over with. We must relocate the register and you must personally take responsibility here and now, perhaps by means of a programme agreement with the Bar Association, in order to transfer the Rhodes Stock Exchange to the facilities selected. I myself had the opportunity from the first incident, when the Rhodes Stock Exchange was closed, to propose the specific point where its relocation has been chosen. I would therefore like to congratulate you on all these efforts. I would like to ask you very warmly to end this issue and to close it. I wish we could know that these days this will be our key choice and we will be "run". I would like to thank you and congratulate you on today's effort and on the legislation that you have presented, which is qualitatively excellent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. Mr. George Papaliou is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. If we hear colleagues from Webex, Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou and then Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis prepare. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conglomerate of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurts has been led a day ago to a forced resignation due to a scandal involving the use and disseminating of public money to finance the promotion and upgrading of the image of his and his party. This was the case after the Austrian judicial authorities had taken the case. In our country, in contrast, there is inertia in relation to such facts - complaints and from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice and from the point of view of the competent judicial authorities. As there is a refusal of the New Democracy to investigate the case in the relevant Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Thus, the President and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group have tabled a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry in order to investigate the opaque financing of public media resources - 'Pestas', etc. - and the administration of public relations to companies and the association of these companies with polling companies in order to manipulate public opinion. The title of the ‘Rapid political trial, adaptation of the provisions of the civil procedure for the digitisation of justice policy’ refers to major changes in the direction of substantially speeding up the administration of justice and by means of the digitisation. The fact is that the times of court proceedings in all matters are high and the speeding up of the administration of justice policy is absolutely essential to ensure that citizens' rights and economic development are effectively safeguarded. But the way in which justice is being accelerated is wrong. I shall refer specifically to the institution of the pilot trial, which is introduced into the civil courts by Article 2. It is foreseen that any legal aid or means brought before any political court can be introduced to the Ice Bay in plenary, enabling the Areos Ice to deal at an early stage with "new, difficult interpretative legal issues of general interest relating to - and having implications - for a wider circle of persons". This is a very general provision which will create a whole range of problems of interpretation and substance. In this context, the criteria on the basis of which the most general interest is to be judged are new difficult interpretative legal issues and which are the wider circle of persons concerned. This is not the case with this bill, and therefore the arbitrariness will be on the agenda. The case, i.e. ‘the new difficult interpretative issue’, is to refer to the Ice Arrow's plenary by a simple act of a three-member committee consisting of the President of the Ice Bay, the former Vice-President and the President of the section responsible, at the request of one of the parties before the committee or at a preliminary question submitted by the Court of Justice. However, it will be referred directly, i.e. by way of the three-member committee, by a simple act of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. The decision of the Ice Bay's Plenary Assembly shall not be subject to legal proceedings. The introduction of the institution of the pilot case is intended to ensure asymmetric centralised control of case-law in particular, in the direction of the favourable treatment of financially powerful, since many lower courts adopt decisions that conflict with those of the above, including the Ice Bay. In addition, the introduction of the institution of the civil trial will result in citizens depriving the crisis and protection to the established degrees of jurisdiction. The principle of judicial protection is overridden, since the Marios Ice becomes, as our rapporteur said, "a court for everything", appearing, as if it were not, as an opinion or advisory body, but, of course, it quashes its decisions. In the context of the already adopted substantive arrangements, such as the abolition of the protection of first homes, which support the interests of large and powerful banks, banks, funds, the New Democracy Government is clearly interested in speeding up only its own assumptions in such cases. This is because it is certain that, at the level of practical implementation in the regulatory framework of the pilot case, there will be mainly cases of banking contracts, loans, labour disputes, contract workers and overdue households, that is to say, the weakest and vulnerable parties in need of major protection will ultimately be affected. The question also arises as to whether issues of general interest are also of constitutionality. In this case, a kind of constitutional court, which does not exist in our own legal system and is contrary to the provisions of Articles 87(2) and 93(4) of the Constitution, is introduced from the outset. It is certain that the purpose of the bill is to include issues that will deal with the pilot trial and issues of constitutionality. However, the explicit reference to the ‘results of regulation’ of the draft law in the maintenance of the diffused and incidental constitutionality check makes the introduction of the pilot trial on the substance inactive. In fact, the provision of Article 563 of the Code of Civil Procedure for engaging in the Ice Bay's plenary on issues of constitutionality or of general interest or on the unity of case law is more complete and fully compatible with the current legal system. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the pilot trial to the civil courts ultimately restricts the free judgement of judges and affects their independence. After all, all the bodies representing the judicial officers and lawyers, who heard at the hearing of the bodies, disagree with its adoption. Everyone disagrees, "except for Laekemonies", i.e. in addition to the representatives of the banks, who were also invited to the drafting stage. This alone demonstrates the interests that are served by this particular definition. I conclude with the provision of Article 68 which provides that a court decision is not required to reduce the price of the first offer after two fertile auctions. In other words, if there are two fertile auctions, the third party is going out with a first offer price equal to 80% of the initially fixed price and the fourth is required by a first offer price equal to 65% of the initially fixed. This regulation, combined with the new bankruptcy law, risks auctioning houses and businesses at very low prices. Quantities "will go out to the hammer" for a few thousand euros. It is a provision that "closes the eye" on corals, which usually represent strong interests. This is unfortunately being promoted by the New Democracy Government in all its fields and with all its powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr Papaliou. Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the bill, I cannot stay in a phrase of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who I believe have listened well, although I hope I have not listened to it. So Mr. Theocharis said that the weak one needs justice. The strong man can do whatever he wants, have money and do whatever he wants. I think - if I have listened well - that this finding by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, which, of course, clearly shows the New Democracy's perception of justice not only within the judiciary but also within society, is not appropriate in today's debate, from which a clear message should come out to the citizens, beyond our disagreements, which have been formulated by all the participants, that the small one is defeating the great one when he is right and that the strong ones need justice just as the weak ones and all are equal to it, otherwise there is no reason to vote on this bill and all the other relevant bills. The bill. Between 2010 and today, tens of bills have been passed that aim to speed up the administration of justice. Unfortunately, the results are minimal, they have all led to suffering from the legal world and civil society and have also brought great legal insecurity. So today I hear the spokesmen of the New Democracy mainly asking themselves: 'Is the bill perfect?' and answering themselves "no is not perfect, but it is in the right direction and will be tested in practice and whether it has imperfections will be corrected". Others said 'Let's do something that is interesting, even if there is nowhere else'. Others said that "if the party doesn't have the party to go to the Areo Ice, we'll appoint him a lawyer with legal help". All of this to me as a fighter, who every day I am in court, seems to me to be experiments once again after more than a decade of constant change. But they are unjustified experiments because many arrangements have been tried and failed, and all the representatives of the competent bodies, the lawyers, the prosecutors, the judges and the judges are telling you that. For some reason, of course, only the Minister is aware of your refusal to adopt their remarks and remedial proposals by continuing the failed choices of the past and by adopting regulations which all of you also point out will have adverse consequences, both for the citizens and for the administration of justice itself, such as your invention of the pilot trial in Marios Ice. The consolidation of case law and the quicker resolution of disputes, yes, must be a timely objective of the legislature. However, the new institution of the pilot trial is not confronted with the phenomenon of the multiplier of case law. On the other hand, you are creating a quasi-constitutional court with the sole purpose of checking case law in cases of bank loans, overlaps, labour disputes in large companies, in cases of contractors requesting their permanentity, and in other cases where lately the courts have made good decisions for the citizens. There is a provision that can lead to the consolidation of the case-law, Article 563 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which is fully compatible with our system and leads to the resolution of mature scientific issues in a uniform manner in the judgment of the Supreme Court of Cassation. We have heard arguments such as 'we want to avoid unnecessary costs for trials that will not have any luck'. But how do you know in advance? How do you concede? Let's see the opposite, to say there's gonna be some sense in the pilot trials. If the pilot trial is in favour of the citizens and against the banks or the public, will the government accept the result so that it does not spend any money on thousands of courts next and does not spend any money, since it is certain that they will win? Will the government force the banks if a pilot trial is at their expense to adopt this decision in all relevant cases with borrowers? And I say this because, even if the pilot trial is at the expense of the public, the banks or the large funds, the state comes under a legislative arrangement and says "those who go to the courts will be justified in accordance with the pilot decision", then you understand that something is wrong with this provision of the pilot trial. We therefore believe that you should tell the citizens today that you have to introduce the institution of the pilot trial, because what you are actually seeking is to introduce to a first and lasting degree trials such as the Swiss franc, the contractors, trials concerning general terms of transactions with banks, trials concerning PPPs and PPPs in public, OTAs and legal entities in public law. And all this comes as a result, as I have said before, of the adoption of decisions that conflict with the great interests, protecting workers. In other words, you are seeking to overthrow the case law against vulnerable people, to the detriment of workers and, as always, to the benefit of the public, the funds, the globes and the banks. Let me refer to the abolition of the orality of the trial. Those who exercise a fighting law have found that the abolition of witness proof has done too much harm to the correctness of the decisions. We all know very well that the jury testifies are not a guarantee of the truth of the claims made by the jurors. They are mostly written by lawyers and go either to the pacifist or to the notaries or simply, without even having read the witnesses, the sworn attestants, the sworn attestation, they sign it. Of course, there is no possibility for the other party to intervene, ask questions to the witness or write his observations in some way on the juror certificate, so that the judge who will take the sworn witness will see the opposite’s objections. Also, the jury testimonies have created another very big problem. We have multiplyed the lawsuits for a false juror certificate, namely what we have won in time, which, as the results show, we have lost it in the criminal courts with hundreds of complaints. At the same time, you reduce the number of jury attestations, i.e. even this evidence lacks the number existing, the five with the proposals and three with the addition, you make them three with the proposal and two with the addition...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u279	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u280	And so you completely change the way in which the pipelines are discussed, even in small differences. I have some comments on the insurance measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u281	Time you don't have.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u282	Yes, just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. So far, the cases of interim measures have also been dealt with by an irresponsible court locally. This often helped, as there was no time and financial opportunity for the parties to move to other cities to judge the cases of the competent courts and had the possibility and unauthorised to bring an action for damages. This is abolished. That will be at the expense of the parties. For workers, the change in the time during which their requirements are calculated, i.e. not the time of first auction, but the time of actual auctioning, will have adverse consequences as their requirements cannot be met. And finally, for the judicial caretakers and communication, I really want to hear the Minister tell us how the court curator will testify, what he will write in his assurance, when a child does not want to go to the father or mother, the beneficiary of the communication, or when it is not possible to go, as his colleague, Mera25, Mrs Adamopoulou, said, because she is sick. This needs to be clarified because from tomorrow we will have to deal with social dramas. So today's bill does not have the objective of speeding up justice. The aim is to speed up the fulfilment of the financial interests of the banks and the major employers, but you will not achieve your goal once again, because justice is also seen in the dark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing a draft law which is the mirror of the healthy mentality of the New Democracy Government, according to which the state has continued and does not arise from virginity every time. A piece of legislation that began in 2015 with L.4335 and which we now come to complete, update and improve, based on a thorough assessment of the results of this law by a special committee. In the main aspects of this draft law, on the one hand, focuses on dealing with the outstandings of the past, removing certain distortions and correcting failures in political justice, in order to speed up the administration of the law for the benefit of Greek citizens, on the other hand, introducing innovations and establishing new and powerful institutions that will enhance the transition of the system of justice to the digital era and proliferate its speed and credibility. Thus, with regard to the first direction, the procedural problems in the compositions of the courts are resolved, the deadlines for submitting proposals are increasing, thus giving the parties as well as the time needed, especially the lawyers, to do their job better, the procedure for introducing and discussing cases at the hearing is simplified and clarified and new arrangements are introduced to adapt the Code of Civil Procedure to the established case-law. Whilst, in the second direction, that of innovation introduced, important areas are the permanentisation of a specific regulation introduced during the period of the pandemic to facilitate the parties to the proceedings and the possibility of obtaining a solemn declaration before a lawyer, the introduction of a simplified and flexible procedure for the resolution of minors by setting up a new electronic platform for the collection of evidence during the procedure which will significantly detract the civil courts from written evidence, the possibility of a joint declaration by the parties on their representation in the trials of special jurisdiction, voluntary jurisdiction in the second degree and consensus points of view, as well as the institutionalisation of digital signatures in the documents on the documents on the basis of the physical signature. Most importantly, however, is the introduction of the pilot trial, which was so much discussed by colleagues who spoke before me before me in the Ice Bay, in order to extend a successful institution already operating in administrative justice to political justice as well. The pilot trial will give each party and every judge in the territory the right to raise in the Chamber of the Supreme Court any matter complex or new which employs a large number of people, thus contributing decisively to the quicker integration of the case-law, the interpretation of a critical rule of law, and by exempting justice from large volumes of similar or similar cases that have remained pending. It is therefore clear that the Government of New Democracy through this bill brings the “medicine” to deal with chronic diseases in the administration of justice, such as the delays due to mass actions and conflicting decisions, particularly in cases of greater interest involving unnecessarily suffering, but also increased financial costs for a large number of citizens. It is also clear that the government once again demonstrates that it is fully aware of the interdependence of the rapid administration of justice by multiplying the development and economic prospects of our society. In the face of this legislative initiative, the attitude of the Officers has been modest, but I would say awkward. He voted without reservation at first, but mainly standing in the face of the regulation on the pilot trial, considering, by the mouth of his rapporteur, Mr Jack, that he aims at rejecting cases involving the Swiss franc, with borrowers, with overdue households, with contractors, with workers in large businesses. But, well, did you not realize that this is how you question the integrity and independence of the judicial officers, stating directly that not only the ordinary judges, but even the Ice Bay House will be subject to political and economic interests, without having the stature freely expressing its scientific and judicial judgment? Do you not understand that with such an equitable argument you are undermining the feeling of citizens' trust in the institutions of justice and its officials? One more thing: it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, on the one hand, to recognise the objective of speeding up the administration of justice and, on the other, to respond to measures that will significantly improve the situation in political justice, such as the one concerning the delegation of responsibility to the judiciary, on the other hand, to draw up a certificate to prevent communication between the child and the parent and, on the other hand, without requiring interim judicial decisions, a gradual reduction in the price of the auctioned property after two atrocious auctions at 80% of the initial price and after three atrocities at 65% of the original price, even when the European Commission itself recognises the effort made by the Greek Government since 2019 to speed up the award of justice, but also when you ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, voting for N.4335, you have made a commitment to the assessment and correcting of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy is proud because it is moving on to continuous legislative initiatives to improve the rule of law in our country, a rule of law which, as one of the highest pillars of our state, but also as a dynamic tool of a modern society, needs to be continuously upgraded so that it always meets the requirements of our times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u285	We are also grateful, Mr Tsavdaridis, for the time being. Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, before I place myself on the bill, I should like to refer to what tragically takes place in the adjacent prefecture of Fthiotida, the Eviaian one, as a result of the catastrophic fires in August, as I think we cannot distance ourselves from reality and be abducted when a real tragedy is taking place next to us, a grim reality which the inhabitants, region and residents are once again experiencing in the past months from the fiery bush, region and residents who are today suffering from the consequences of rainfall. Agia Anna, Achladi, Pseropouli and many other villages in northern Evia once again count their wounds, due to this time the extensive destruction of rainfall. Hives were flooded, their entire streets swallowed their sea and business equipment were completely destroyed. And all of this because of its apparent lack, otherwise, of an Executive State, which is not capable of acting preventively, despite the fact that all for the past two months have been talking about the problems that will arise from the first rains, of a State that acts through fragmentary moves and always in the light of the communication management of the problems alone. And that is not a claim under any circumstances mine, ladies and gentlemen. It is the public position of the Mayor of the region, Mr. Tsapourniotis, who stated that the disasters are incalculable and only 10% of the municipality has been covered by anti-corrosion projects. So, at the time we see these images of destruction in Evia and we hear the people of the self-government denouncing after the command of not being suppressed during the fire, denouncing the delays that are taking place today, the final state remains unreasonable, inactive and irreversible, with the citizens being completely alone and with a Prime Minister enjoying its baths unreasonable. And a major question arises: will Mr Mitsotakis find the way - the mood, if any - to visit northern Evia? For his macrobushes, he finds time. And that's good! But to see what's going on on the polypathic island and how his people are living right now he can't find out? It is, of course, a rhetorical question, because unfortunately, reality itself has answered it. In the bill now, we are being called upon to discuss amendments made to the Code of Civil Procedure. And one wonders: Should legislation, in particular, on matters relating to the functioning of the sensitive area of justice, be impartial and preserve the duty of its officials to deal with each case according to its own specificities or not? Should the legislature produce a project in the medium to long term, which is not linked to temporary commitments and does not serve essentially political or other purposes or purposes? Those questions arise and are raised in so far as it is established that the Government of the New Republic is willing to put into vacant categories of cases which cannot, in fact, be consolidated through the institution of the pilot trial. This is to be done according to the model of the pilot trial for administrative trials in the Council of State. However, I think that we all accept that such homogenisation of cases is not easy, even through written procedure, as is the case in the S.H.I.E. In this regard, the positions of the heads of bodies concerned shall be indicative. According to the president of the plenary of the country's lawyers, by extending the pilot trial for administrative differences in political trials what is happening? What did he say? The fact that a quasi-constitutional court has been set up on the back door, but without - I will add - that there has been a similar provision in the revision of the Constitution. In fact, the Secretary-General of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, Mr Borodemos, also expressing the opposition of the Union to the institution of the political trial as it moves forward, pointed out that the provision that any legal aid or instrument may be introduced into the Ice Board of Appeal may be made at an excessively early stage to deal with the Supreme Court with difficult legal issues of more general interest, i.e. before they could even gain their status as a more general interest. The proposed procedure is predicted to sink the Arele Ice with hundreds of unfounded demands of early intervention, creating a new field of court crisis. In addition, the provision of automatic reduction of the property price to auctions is added initially to 80% of the initial price and then to 65%, facilitating manipulation by any scientists and servicing circuits of our weak fellow citizens. As a result, a comprehensive framework is being created to minimise security differences for borrowers, but also for our fellow citizens who are most in need, and a grid of provisions is being established in the Code of Civil Procedure, which affects the core of its mission, as a protectionist hive of the rights of all citizens without exception. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that there is a huge need to speed up the political trial and to speed up the justice system in our country. Accelerating the administration of justice is also a prerequisite for economic growth and, by extension, social prosperity, while, of course, it is also a time-consuming challenge for the Hellenic Republic. But that is not possible and we cannot accept that it will take place with discounts in the same way as it is provided in the very operation of Greek justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr Sarakiotis, and congratulations, as you were in your time. You said about the bill and your country's problems. Now I am going to the tricks, to Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis of the Change Movement, which, before I give her the floor, I would ask her not to take advantage of today. Good evening, good week. You can start, Mrs. Ligoli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Mr President. What about what I'm going to do now? I'll cut my time!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u289	No, seven minutes to talk. Twelve don't speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u290	What am I supposed to do? Unfortunately, I come from an area that counts Pharaoh's wounds. What can we say now? Earthquakes, famines, oppressions and in response from Larissa and the polypath Thessaly, unfortunately, today and today I have to tell you. With hails and rains and floods on the coasts of the Prefecture of Larissa and also in mountain Melivoia, in the Municipality of Tempon and in the municipality of Agias, the same time that settlements have been flooded and swimped in the mudwaters literally the earthquakes in Damasi and Elassona. The road's cut at two. There is no road communication anymore, and unfortunately it is extremely serious. Things about the Larissa Prefecture and the surrounding area cannot be dealt with, my Minister, by simple aspirins. It needs an integrated reconstruction plan for the region, with a clear timetable. It's winter. There's no swabs for seismics. It's taken all the coastlines, all the mountains. The glacier destroyed the crops. It is now destroyed and the chestnut we expected this year how and how to export it, because you saw that it has been distinguished around the world. I'm sorry to bring this news, but unfortunately the county is with the back of the wall and the eyes to God. In this context, and without all else being abundant, because we are dealing with a wave of precision that is terrible, which is also about the productive sector of the Larisa and Thessaly region, a wider real death in production, the literally death of pandemic - we are in the red regions, as you know, we have this sad 'previous 'private' -, with the HS and doctors and nurses on the road, our HSH to mislead, the General Hospital, the University Hospital, our structures to need personnel immediately, our teachers today on the roads to strike and our society is divided into vaccinated and unvaccinated, with this incredible government decision to put the entire vaccinated world in the shops and make it happen to literally, without considering the effects of this society as well as it does not have on it as a whole, because it is not about the state of control mechanism. You don't have one. You haven't made it, as you haven't made a machine for producing medical and nursing staff especially for COVID. It's been a year and a half, and you could've made it. Now we're going to your titles and soon, so I don't abuse time. Look, the current lawyers are very well aware of what is happening, my Minister. And you know that I appreciate your face and the effort you're making at the Ministry that you're, a neural ministry. Recently we have talked about it in close proximity to the sanctuary you did for the start of the court year in Larissa and Karditsa. But good words and good intentions are not enough. We who live every day in the field of law, justice and minister for more than twenty years in this area, understand what pathogens are. Today, let me tell you that this morning I was at the three-member felony appeals and the lawsuit, which was filed against the parties to the trial in 2012 and was the first in 2021, in the criminal court. Today you're the ones who set up the bourgeois court. Well, delaying the administration of justice is not a title of quality and difference. The major reforms are, in principle, carried out in dialogue. You cannot once again, as you had for the judicial office, across the world, the whole society of lawyers, judges, no one can agree with you. Only banks agree. Isn't that what makes you suspicious? Or have you agreed, have you spoken this wrongly and we are talking about how we will contribute positively to making significant changes? So when the criminal court, after ten years, comes to be introduced for the first time and was postponed for the next January again, what are we talking about? The pathogens are given. You are now coming to tell us about civil courts and private affairs, as we say, that you will resolve this by introducing the pilot trial into it too. You cannot do that, Minister, because you do not have the means first. You don't have the means to do that. Essentially move a whole part of justice and reach the Arena Ice without having ensured the interests of the non-preferential people, the weak. First of all, I only ask you this, as a lawyer for 20 years, and this is what I want you to answer. How can any non-preferentially weak man be able to stand in the Arena Ice? Did you extend the legal aid, and I didn't get it? Because you have given us this, but from what I have seen you have brought an amendment which only regulates legal aid. So you say, when there is no one named in legal aid, the lawyer will, in any case, postpone the case. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And what did you do in total for legal aid? Instead of expanding the institution at times of crisis, as I said before, rather than strengthening the process, you unfortunately whistle indifferently against a measure that you should bring, in an institution that you should specifically strengthen in our own times. So you go to Marios Ice the story of the pilot trial without giving us any idea why you're comparing the administrative trial to the civil trial. But they have nothing to do with it. For those of us who are trialing every day, we tell you that they have absolutely nothing to do with it. And that is how you try to resolve private differences. How, Minister? With a jury testifying? Other colleagues have said so. With 'famous' assurances given to notaries or judges, is justice awarded? With witnesses who don't even read the texts, but are they on the order of each other and come and file a signature for him why is he a relative, a friend, a clerk, and he doesn't fit? Is that what justice is being given? Justice has a moral and qualitative sign, which we must also preserve from time to time and from speeding up and from reform. And baptize it as you wish. So this moral sign, unfortunately, does not exist. And you know what? You are entitled to be discussed, as they say in our country, in other words to be discussed and not well. To talk to you, because you have not put any counterweight to the regulation you have put, Mr Minister, against the protection of the weak, against the protection of the Arele Ice which should at least be institutionally protected and the same supreme court should be shielded, and now you leave suspicions and suspicions of an institution that should be a guardian of justice and to a maximum extent. With these thoughts, therefore, we the Change Movement are voting against this bill, considering that it is below the circumstances, unless it really serves those you want to serve and then it will be an accident twice for the country and it will have to be corrected immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u291	And thank you for keeping your promise. You said about the country's problems, you said about the bill. You saw, when you wanted to say it, you did it. Don't take me to twelve, and you're upsetting me. Have a good time, Mrs. Liikali, thank you very much. And go to the last for today, Mr. Logaide from Mera25. Good evening, good week. You can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening from the earthquake of Crete. First of all, I should like to refer to the daily earthquakes in Crete and the catastrophic of September 27, 5,8 to which foreign geodynamic institutes, however, report it 6 to 6,2 to 6,2 to 6,2 to what this entails. The EBRD with sheet number 4646, issued on 7-10-2021, reports the granting of interest-free loans. In order to grant a bank loan, however, the owner of the property must secure his property. But for some time now insurance companies have not secured buildings for the earthquake. So how will these loans be given to the earthquakes? The affected seeks their immediate support with simple and comprehensible conditions and procedures without demonstrable bureaucracy. And listen - listen, some funds were provided in bank accounts, and then the people were informed not to touch that money. Also, every earthquake citizen can only declare and strengthen for one property and not all of his property. What feelings does this create for damaged people? Everyone is asking for the region to be supported by people and businesses and not to leave the city and internal migration in an area where projects are currently being carried out on the new international airport in Kastelli. I come to the current draft law of the Ministry of Justice on the new Code of Civil Procedure. Now, for the current draft law of the Ministry of Justice on the new Code of Civil Procedure, firstly the frequent changes in key Codes of Criminal and Political Procedure give an insecurity of law not only to the citizens but also to judges and lawyers who do not know what they are on trial. Changes in these codes must be made with great enthusiasm. Here are several provisions that return to the past, expressing the failure of the earlier changes, until they have changed again shortly. So we're not going anywhere, because we're taking a step forward and step back. There is no legal certainty, so there is no insecurity in the procedures that are constantly changing. Whether they are unrelated to those who propose changes or do so deliberately. Issues settled last year and before that in alpha, these are now resetting. Insecurity of law is called this, lack of stability in law. It is therefore necessary to lay down exceptionally short deadlines for the drafting of pleadings, which it is absolutely impossible for a lawyer to catch up. So fundamental rights of the parties are being erroneous. As a result, there will be an increase in the costs of the lawyer and therefore an increase in the financial burden on the citizen. It's gonna be like that, where it's a good thing to hire a lawyer on a case, the subject of the trial should be more than 300,000 euros, or you're desolate and convicted. In other words, we are essentially talking about supporting large legal offices and depreciating small and individual independent lawyers. The most important change in today's draft law comes with the pilot trial at the Areo Ice on supposedly important issues, for example vaccination requirements, strike legality, so that each government intervenes directly through the Ice Bay, whose head it appoints itself, to control decisions. So good, so clear! It's exactly the opposite that's taking over the Mera25, and he's fighting for it. The clear, clear distinction of powers. There are a number of basic issues here, therefore. Firstly, when, for a matter of general interest, Marios Ice will decide directly, without going through the matter from the first point of view, without giving time for scientific comment on the decisions, for criticism from the legal world and control from appeals, etc., then we are leading to hasty and perhaps untested solutions, which are doubtful of whether the most right ones will be. Secondly, as is the wording of the provision, it is included in the issues of more general interest and the constitutionality of the law. This is very serious, however, because in this way the diffused constitutionality of the courts is abolished and a constitutional court is founded in Greece, with all that this entails. Furthermore, the abolition of the resumption of the debate on expert consultation with Article 254 will lead to more delay rather than to a solution to the problem. And that is because now it will be more common to issue the provision for expert, haste and clipboard, without the rapporteur having studied the case, and before there was the way out Article 254, which would be applied only after a case study, and only if the court had not come to a safe conclusion. In addition, the sixty days to submit the expert report are completely impossible for those who know what is going on and how long the experts are delaying, with replacements and various other issues. In the other articles, the changes proposed are important in addition to the confusion and insecurity, which, as mentioned above, will bring to everyone, they have nothing special to offer, but perhaps only greater complexity. Finally, let us point out once again that no matter how many times the codes change, no matter how many new laws are adopted, if there is no suitable human potential for these laws to be implemented, there will never be any delay in justice. The necessary human potential in justice and the entire public sector is lacking. For example, in public health, in public education, in public security, in public control mechanisms. Let me mention that here in Heraklion in Crete, in the earthquake of Minoa and Pedadas, the city has only one civil engineer, in the municipality, in which the new international airport of Castellios is built. It does not take on the necessary potential, because with the memoranda you have signed, you and KINAL - PASOK and SYRIZA, you must produce huge primary surpluses, which do not give you that possibility. Commandments from above and outside. Depreciation and slavery is called this. As an MEP from Crete, I should like to point out that, throughout Crete, only ten Presidents of the Primary Courts are serving, in order to direct the primary courts, to judge the insurance, to preside over the three-members, the mixeds, the vows, etc. That's a huge amount of work. So the problem is not procedural, but the economy in these positions, the underemployment. Destructive economy, because of monuments, is called this. That is why we, Mera25, consider the break, not the veto, as institutionalised by the European Union, to get out of this endless debt prison, which, as long as time passes, is increasing the debt, despite the enormous sacrifices of the Greeks and despite the continuing divestment of our public property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. We will make a short transition from the rapporteurs and close with the Minister. I shall begin by the rapporteur of the Greek Solution, Mr Antonis Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by concluding today's Rapid Political Trial, I have two - three things to say. We need to be very serious and responsible when we talk about justice, when we talk about its rapid award, and we need to see exactly the problem. There has been a lot of talk today, but very serious and too much, I believe. I mean, deception of the judiciary is something that is very dangerous. The citizen's got his natural judge disgusted. Getting to the point of accusing the judges of errors, omissions and decisions, which they occasionally make, is a big mistake. Of course, there are, but all of them I think they're trying to do as best they can to do their job. It was heard by Mr Kefaliannis that the rapid political trial was not due to the number of judges. But I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is essentially the issue that should concern us. In the number of judges, how many judges do we have today, Minister? Two thousand four hundred judges at all levels and nine hundred peacekeepers. A case of work to be done: If we were to raise the judicial officers by a thousand or reduce them by a thousand, would the scale not rise and the scale be at hand? Let's see that. The Greek Solution has clearly proposed to you some topics, not just now, but our parliamentary representative, Mr. Villardos, also said some of our programme. Firstly, digitisation by measure, yes, not horizontal. The proceedings shall be held in the presence of the parties in front of the natural judge. Do not remove the audiences. It's a big mistake, I think, to abolish the audiences. At least 50% increase in judges and judges. The National Judiciary must be upgraded. To increase administrative staff to a level that meets the needs. Improve the courthouse and digitize the files. Not fast track trials. Fast, fair trials. Unless, Minister, you mean a rapid trial for reducing the auction deadline from seven to five months and not more than six as a whole. He was eight in the applicable Code of Civil Procedure. If this is a quick eviction of the poor, then I think you've managed to do it, just like the previous law. The Greek Solution once again says that this bill adds nothing. We're not winning anything with this bill. On the contrary, we are creating a few problems - apart from digitisation, which is on the right track - where all the others are in favour of banks, large funds and not of poor ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr Mylonakis. Mrs Maria Konnaka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. I shall confine myself to the amendments in particular. However, I also wanted to welcome the shocking mobilisation of teachers, who met with students in a real lagoon and sent a bronze message that multi-advertised anti-educational laws can be judged, judged and overthrown in the struggle. That is where it is right, many times, with a greater dynamic than decisions can be made themselves. So we too join in our voices for a school that will form the whole, with educational standing teachers, true teachers, and not just those who are merely perpetuating anti-grass laws. That is why we cannot vote for the amendment by the Ministry of Education, because this is more important than Article 5, which essentially follows on from the minimum import base that the Minister has described, as the Minister said, thousands of children from the universities and sent them to private colleges. Of course Article 7 stipulates - and should be provided - housing allowance for students, but it is slowly being spent. 80 euros housing allowance is not enough for the house lock, not to pay rent in today's conditions. Such is the government's sensitivity to the various measures that are supposed to be alleviating the local households, which simply prolongs for a few months the deadlocks gathered during the pandemic. Relief is not for the people's households and the self-employed, who have actually drowned in debts at this time counting instalments, but to delete part of their debts, especially for the lower incomes, to banks, the public, etc. Let them pay once the broken crisis and the banks. The world won't be lost. We would, of course, vote against these measures with'residents', but in total, we will vote against them for Articles 6 to 9, which, with the eye on strategic investment, deal with various issues of the HICP on the continuation of the sale of public property. Now, in relation to the amendment to the local administration, in particular Article 1, we consider that it is essentially an indirect recognition that existing funding for children's stations, CSRs and CSRs are insufficient and is not enough for the staff they need to pay. We believe that, and now, the problem is not solved by the reference to the 'ITIS REQUIREMENT' programme which has already gone far beyond its limits. We would remind you that the ceiling is 2.5 billion, and today the programmes that have been asked to join reach 6 billion. So you understand that this self-financing by the municipalities will go to the public once again when their funds have been'minus' for some time. With regard to the construction services that are created, the main thing is that in reality the municipal building services are intended to be assigned immediately after their responsibilities in the multi-departmental structures of the development agencies to run faster, of course, the business groups' plans. That is why it stipulates that if decentralised administration fails to certify them as adequate - and you understand that, in municipalities with very small and mountainous areas which do not have the relevant staff, it is assumed that they will not manage adequately - by a simple act of the mayor, these powers are assigned to them, as are the workers, in programming contracts in the above terms. I'm closing in with a word. Minister, with regard to the legal practice you have brought, in relation to the advance payment of the compensation to lawyers for legal aid, we are asking questions - not to mention that it is a pity - what you turn half of the compensation into an undetermined section. What's this department? Why don't you determine when you know that lawyers, especially low incomes, are struggling because they have accumulated long-term demands. Of course, this creates an obstacle to the continuation of legal aid. Indeed, it is not a technical type of legislation - that is to say - a technical clarification simply of the terms of the compensation. If you really want to ensure that half the compensation is paid in advance, you should expressly formulate it and, of course, not refer it back to the Greek bells, to the joint ministerial decisions that we do not know whether and when they will be adopted. We need to clarify why the amount to be paid to lawyers is not precisely the amount to be determined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, too. Mrs Theodora Jackris has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u299	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, because it was before the SYRIZA application for a committee of inquiry in order to investigate the cases of manipulation of public opinion, in which there is a smuggling of public money, I would like to point out that after the resignation of the Austrian Chancellor for EUR 1 million, I think it is self-evident and political - if you like - but also compatible with the principles and values of parliament, beyond the parties, that of SYRIZA's request and that the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry should be accepted by all colleagues who believe that unfavourable democracy is - if you want - the fundamental requirement that we politicians enjoy respect for citizens and, above all, it is the only way to avoid the revival of rage. Because as we welcome today that we have succeeded and, in any case, they have been tried and closed in prison for the sake of justice - if you wish - the guilty of the Golden Dawn trial, in the same way I think we will be able to make a consortium if we allow the creation of a next and ancillary wave of violence. Because, Mr President, fascism, in my view, I think it is born in cases of manipulation of angry citizens who have lost their faith in democracy. As far as the bill is concerned, I won't say anything more. I think that there has been an exhaustive debate in both committees, but also in plenary today. Mr President, I would like to limit my second-guess only to the amendments. I don't know their numbers. I'm going to name them from the ministry that they've been filed with. I shall start with the Ministry of Education's amendment. It is an amendment to which a number of topics are introduced, such as the recruitment of IC 87.02 Nursing as well as temporary substitutes for infants, childcare and primary and secondary education, and it also talks about the housing benefits of the trainees in the ICES. All of this is in agreement with us. But in this sense - if I may say so - the government's tactics are accumulated in the same amendment, a completely irrelevant matter, Mr President, which is a peak point for us - and, if you like - a red cloth which relates to the minimum import base. Therefore, despite the fact that we were in line with the provisions of the regulations I have just mentioned, because the minimum import base is cumulated, we are forced, Mr President, to vote 'at present'. I now come to the amendment from the Ministry of Justice, as tabled by the Ministry of Justice, with which we have absolutely no problem. I continue with the amendment of the Ministry of Finance. Look at what's going on here. In fact, this amendment brings together the provisions for the reintegration into one hundred and twenty instalments, as well as for the extension for three months of the GEOFYRA programme, Mr President, in Article 6, of full flexibility, namely the abolition of yet another bindingity of the systemic banks towards the public. Therefore, this provision of Article 6 does not necessarily make the submission of a public proposal from the Financial Stability Fund to the four systemic banks, which are shareholders, even if the percentage of the Financial Stability Fund exceeds one third of them, such as Piraeus or the National Bank, by applying the deferred tax law. For the same reason, therefore, despite the fact that positive regulations are being accumulated here, because the specific provision that I have just mentioned is being included, we are voting against this amendment, Mr President. I come to the amendment from the Ministry of the Interior. Despite the fact that we are not opposed to the extension of the time limit given to the possibility of creating a building service, as towns are now called, in municipalities which have not yet had a corresponding service, the provision that is accumulated as sub-section (b) in the first article, whereby - I would say this - outsourcing close services of the Building Service to individuals, as this provision in paragraph 2 of Article 4 of Law 4674/2000, to which subparagraph (b) refers, Mr President, gives this very possibility by opening up the Vendals. I think that here I have completed my position on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much. Mrs. Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u302	I would not have put it if the SYRIZA were not asked by my colleague, the question of the committee of inquiry, which was put to the House of Greeks today, regarding the operation of political manipulation of public opinion, the incompatibility of institutions and the fragmentation of public money, such as the title of the committee of inquiry. We as a Movement of Change and as a PASOK over time and unequivocally have always been in favour of investigating every shadow in public life. Transparency everywhere for everyone and for everything without any blockade, nor when it was our officials and real officials of our own governments. So we're always going, so we're going now. Of course this will be decided in our parliamentary group, but, Mrs Jackson, I think that if we really want to be honest about transparency everywhere, then you will certainly agree with me that all you say would be very useful for us to investigate them, and we should look into them, not just for the last two and a half years - which we must and should - for the governance of the New Democracy, but it would be very useful for us to investigate for all four and a half years of SYRIZA governance. There are many issues that we need to see in the polling process. Let me remind you of polls that few days before the European elections showed SYRIZA ten and more points ahead when the result was exactly the opposite. So all in light for everyone and everything since 2015 at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u303	Thank you very much, Mrs. Giannakopoulos. Mr Efstathos Konstantinides, rapporteur from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are invited by SYRIZA, the Qualified Opposition, to protect the credibility of this institution by acceding to its request. I think it has a great deal of hypocrisy, at the same time as in criminal cases, which were called upon to place the Plenary Assembly, SYRIZA has taken a completely different stance and still maintains, despite the fact that these cases are now in the criminal investigation stage. As far as the amendments which have been tabled are concerned, I think they are all in the right direction. This Ministry of Home Affairs certainly arranges outstandings which had a regulation and some extensions for the proper functioning of local government bodies. In the same direction and even more positive and socially and with a development mark, as the Minister of Finance noted, are the articles of the Ministry of Finance's amendment. And in that sense, of course, we are also voting in favour of it. As we are also voting in favour of the amendment by the Ministry of Education, which refers to the student's allowance and not, of course, to the cover of the total rent, but is an aid and an extended aid for students in view of the particular circumstances. We are also voting in favour of the arrangements for the recruitment of special staff in schools, but also for facilitating university institutions in the definition of the special base. Now just a final comment on the bill. While all parties agreed, we have united in the problems, the pathogens, the distortions, the needs, the weaknesses of the institution of justice, but in institutions such as the pilot trial and the other solutions introduced by the bill, I think that the opposition parties did not show the boldness and courage needed to go beyond the parties' lines and to vote in favour of these provisions. The paradox of the whole story, the oxymoor, if you wish, is that in both the committee and the Plenary Assembly any member of the counter-population went to Stepha, whistled against the pilot trial invoking the unconstitutionality of the relevant regulation. Go! Go! Go! No objection of anti-constitutionality was submitted either by SYRIZA or by the other parties. Why? Because they know in depth that it does not have the bill, it does not have its regulations on the basis of constitutional legitimacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, too. The Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I start talking about the bill, I would like to express my condolences to the loss of my fellow SYRIZA, former Vice-President of Parliament, Tasos Kourakis. With Tasos Kourakis, I was connected to a relationship that very few might know. It was a teacher and student relationship. He was a lecturer in biology when he joined the School of Medicine in Thessaloniki and at least the first two years of my school was one of the people who systematically taught the subject of biology. I think we'll all remember him with positive thoughts. He was a man who at least as an academic, regardless of any political disagreement we might have had, recorded his own stigma and presence in the Greek Parliament. But if I have to start talking about the bill, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say it, but I will express my disappointment, not because all the colleagues and the opposition parties expressed their opposition to the bill, but because I personally believed that, beyond Article 2, which describes the pilot trial as a new practical reality in the overall process of political trial, in all the other parts of the bill, I would believe that both parties and colleagues would see positively many of the references and many of the proposed arrangements. Instead of that, in a logic which one must at least explain with logic, I have heard things that I do not know how much it has to do with reality itself. I would like to return by saying that, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is one. It is not always what we consider to be a reality, but it is what comes from the facts. I have therefore heard colleagues speak of unconstitutionalism, about what is a bill that gives it all to banks, large funds, that it is a bill that will substantially overthrow the process of political trial and that, in any case, it has absolutely nothing to contribute to this process of reform and modernisation that we have been trying in the field of justice for about two and a half years. So let's get things together and see what's going on. And, of course, I am obliged first of all to address the honourable Members of the Staff Regulations who either do not know what their own history is about extra-territorial and government or obviously come here in conflict with lame arguments, which we are trying to complete and which obviously has been mentioned in the past. Mr. Blondopoulos, Mrs. Jackri, do you know Mr.4355? Do you know the commitment you made after the vote on Mr.4335?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u307	Why are you coming back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u308	Because I'm forced...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u309	Minister, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u310	I understand that there are 'psychological problems' within the SYRIZA with colleagues who are expressing different views but, anyway, take a serious and firm position to know what is happening to you. For what you are doing at the moment is exposing you irreparably. I have not said so, and other Members have said so. And it must at some point be what the Greek citizens understand when listening to us being real, not being pretext, nor when we are in the government to be forced to do something and when we are in the opposition to be lads. It's not like that. Here Greek citizens must know what the truth is. No.4335 therefore created a specific commitment. Who was that? I would remind you of it, since you have either not heard it when I told the committee or, in any case, you have forgotten to update it or remember it now with your arguments. So let me remind her. It was the commitment to address questionnaires to all legal formations regarding the application of this law. In other words, the government had to see whether there were any problems in applying Law No4335 and that it would have to legislate in such a way that these problems would be removed. That is why, Mr Xanthopoulou and Mrs Jackson, you have set up a working group headed by Ms Mayaku, the Areopagite, the former Vice-President of the Ice Bay, because she has been retired. Have you looked into it? Have you really sought Mrs. Mayaku's conclusion?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u311	Three times I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u312	Good. So you'll see, since I'm tabling it in the Minutes, to understand what this bill means to legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u313	Finally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u314	Because all that we are coming to legislate today did not invent, ladies and gentlemen, we did not make it out of our minds, nor did I wake up one day and said that I would change the Code of Civil Procedure. At some point we have to understand that if we want to be serious and we support the continuation of the state, we support it in a certain way. So we are actually coming to conclude a previous legislative initiative, which had certainly created tension at that time - we know that very well - very well - very clear discernment within the SYRIZA, but the tactic that "weeping, tearing the pages, but I sign and don't get the ink", okay, we've heard it many times. Let us not repeat the same thing. And don't give me up for my style, because that was your style earlier here in Stepma. So we have to say things by their name and put them in a certain order. So what are we going to do right now? To conclude, on the basis of the questionnaires sent and answered, the study carried out by the working party and the effort made by a legislative committee, which has worked for a long time under Law 4335, so that we have a modern Code of Civil Procedure. Of course, a central political choice is also added to this which is the implementation of the so-called pilot trial in civil justice. Yes, sir. I understand that there is a contradiction. I understand that there is concern. But, Mrs Giannakopoulos, you do well to raise the point you said that it was the PASOK that legislated the pilot trial in the administrative courts at the Council of State. Do you remember what intensity or, if necessary, did we seek to find out what intensity was at the time with this legacy? Today, almost ten years later, we are talking about an absolutely successful institution. In fact, in order to be honest, as unconstitutionalism was a repetitive term by many colleagues here in this Chamber, the question of whether the trial for the pilot trial in the Council of State has been judged many times. And do you know what the contradictions are to which you often find yourself? I'm not addressing you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. I would like to address my colleagues in general. It's the fact that when you don't find anything to catch, you're looking to find the only reason you're ever projecting. But there is no stability in this. It's ad hoc. Now that the Scientific Committee of Parliament has said nothing about unconstitutionalism, you have not invoked it. When I brought you opinions from the administrative plenary of the Ice Bay, you told me that these were not mandatory. Now you're saying why I didn't bring her. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the consistency and, in any case, the message that each of us sends to the citizens and to the Greek society I think is the reason why we are judged at all times and at all times. And I say this because the government's intention is to complete a specific reform programme in justice, which will give us the opportunity and the opportunity, on the one hand, to address the many and great sufferings that exist, but, above all, to give a firm signal, a firm signal to all Greek society and to all Greek citizens that they must feel safe from the functioning of justice. Really, is the pilot trial, ladies and gentlemen, to serve the banks and the funds? Really, is that your opinion? So, the ordinary citizen, who has been afflicted for more than a decade before taking a decision at three different levels of justice, does not fall within the scope of your own concern? The pilot trial, ladies and gentlemen, is in favour of our weak and vulnerable fellow citizens. We have made it clear from the start, because even the nature of the issues that will be considered through the pilot trial will actually give the solution and answer to people who are likely to suffer for a decade in a very short time. I realise that there is a reason, perhaps, for opposition, which may have its roots on different points, but in any case, it creates a political reason, an opposition reason, in order to have an opposing view. However, as I repeat that we are all judged by what we are trying to do and through what we say every time to Greek society, I think that to a very large extent the pilot trial will be judged for its success, but, of course, also for its effectiveness. Let a corresponding argument happened to hear a few months ago when we brought the law on the pending cases of the Katseli Act. You were saying exactly the same things, from unconstitutional to a case-law which is incomplete, which again does not favour the weak citizens, who, in any case, also strengthens whom, the banks, the funds and so on. What is the result today, ladies and gentlemen? Almost fifty thousand cases have joined the platform and are expected to be quickly cleared. In other words, this risk of space and the functioning of justice - I repeat, at least in my opinion - should not have space and place in this debate. Personally, I believe and still believe and will continue to say that justice is not a micropolitical confrontation. The area of justice is an area in which we must all take a serious, moderate and responsible approach, in order to support any process, but much more to give - I repeat - a firm message, to send a firm message to all Greek citizens that they must feel safe. Yes, sir. What is the greatest pathogen in the field of Greek justice? The delays in the time of justice. All colleagues have said so. Will the pilot trial, ladies and gentlemen, not address this problem partially? In other words, a case must be in three different stages, with conflicting judgments by courts. We've seen it too many times. May I remind you of the Swiss franc case? May I remind you of issues which, to a very large extent, were, I would say, of particular legal interest, of great legal interest, difficult legal issues which the pilot trial is called upon to resolve? The point is, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot, on the one hand, all come and very nice to judge or, at any rate, to see - to say a simpler word, a simpler word, a easier word - problems in the area of justice and, when solutions are proposed, simply by a statement or a complaint not only to propose something different, but simply to reject any solution. At the end of the day all of this is recorded and to a very large extent it is put into consideration by Greek society and Greek citizens. A huge debate is taking place on the new regular procedure, that there will no longer be a witness testimonial and that everything will be written. But I think that all of this is described very specifically - I do not remember whether it is only in Article 3 or in another article - that it is possible, at the discretion of the judge, even if he considers that the evidence or all the documents are not sufficient to form his viewpoint, he has the ability to call witnesses or, in any case, to call on all those who can, in their own testimony and in their own testimony, form their own right view and objective judgment. All that you say, ladies and gentlemen, is a climate that judges cannot judge and decide properly. And that's something that's too dangerous. We really must not let such an opinion and such an impression be cultivated if we really want to contribute to the proper functioning of justice. It is not possible for judges to be affected when talking about big-capital cases or what else I or the fund on the one hand, but on the other hand for them to be judges who decide in favour of retroactive pensioners. Pick. It's either on or on the other side. You cannot be on both sides and keep saying contradictory things. I say this because, once again, the efforts that have been made in recent years serves a specific reform plan. Yes, Mr. Mylonakis, we're changing all the codes. I've already announced it. I've said it from the Step of the House. That is why we have a positive report on the rule of law by the European Commission. I will come back to Mrs Jackés, since I do not really know what she might have read from the European Commission's report on the rule of law, but I am prepared to see - page and chapter - chapter where the positive results of the reforms and choices of the current government are and where the black references are and in which time there are. I'll say it again, ladies and gentlemen. I have to. Do you know that there is a vague positive viewpoint in the European Commission's report that this government is moving rapidly towards the digitisation of justice? Do you know that she is particularly pleased because we have set up special sections in Athens and Thessaloniki that will avenge investment more quickly? The fact that we legally set up the statistics office at the Ministry of Justice? Have you followed all this, ladies and gentlemen? You referred to delays. I do not remember which colleague spoke specifically about them. They are concerned that 2018 was five hundred ninety days while 2019 was six hundred thirty seven. They are referred to in another period they do not refer to the period of this governance. Also, Mr Xanthopoulou, I had no intention of repeating that reference is made to the report by the Government of the European Commission on Greece, and that it has been two years since the previous government had not made the active bribery. I guess you want me to repeat it. I didn't mean to do it, and I'm telling you honestly. I will bring you to the next meeting the recommendations made by both GRECO and the OECD, and what might have been the 'threatening' that had begun to be formulated for Greece with on-the-spot reports, which would degrade Greece in their classification of corruption in this table that exists in European reality. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to repeat it again, I have every intention to avoid it, to forget it in the debate. But if you bring it back, I'm forced to say it again. And that's a reality about the previous government. Who told you that I now object to the validity or, in any case, to the ability of the really excellent teachers who were members of the legislator's committee? They were the same ones who gave the changes in mind. With the same people we talked and the people themselves are the ones who made the changes. They weren't different people. I don't want to get into a logic because that's what happened or why it's forgotten. Because I am sure that if you sit down and look at it not as a Member but as a legal person, you will see that it is not possible for active bribery to be a flood and all other forms of bribery to be a felony. Something's wrong. What is not going well, ladies and gentlemen, has been legislated on the days of the previous government and it is a matter of common sense. It's not about how one sees the law or how one wants to see certain specific issues. I think these are all issues that we have discussed. I would like to close them personally, I would like them to be exhausted. But the fact that you insist by arguing from the Step of the House gives me the opportunity to come back. New tactical procedure. You haven't decided if you want her or you don't want her. It's like you temporarily voted in 2015 and then you say, "Get it out. We voted for it. You're the one to take it off." But do you want to see what the truth is, ladies and gentlemen? The truth arises with the actual statistics and with the actual number of cases pending with the old tactics and pending today. In 2015, therefore, eighty-six thousand and twenty-three cases were pending in all the prefectures. As of 2016, cases for the same statistical period pending are fifty-two thousand eight hundred and fifty-six. You realise that the reduction of cases is too great. And that should not be ignored if we really want to protect Greek citizens from the very long time of justice. Some here characterizing or speaking of the great year of justice even spoke of denial. Yeah, that could even be heard. However, if we want to face such problems, ladies and gentlemen, we must all understand that we must support reforms and strengthen the reform effort in the area of justice. By stagnating or by closing the eye or, if you would like, clearly, I would say, approaching populism on certain issues, we will not respond or give a solution to the great problems that exist in the area of justice. I'm not one of those who deny reality. However, I am one of those who I regard as my duty to do my utmost to deal with problems and diseases in the field of justice. This must be done without having second and third thoughts, or possibly seeing the bureaucratic process in front of it as an impediment or an obstacle to taking the necessary steps. All this could be seen through many other issues. An entire debate and a lot of references were made to the auctions. We have not altered the debtor's right of opposition to ask the court for an increase in the first offer of the property. That's what I think you've recorded. You know that. This article remains unchanged in paragraph 4 of 954. And, of course, the price is starting and not the sale price. That's what we've been through. The fact that there is a pillow that reaches the third auction in 65% of the value of the property is just so that the properties are not given for a piece of bread. It is precisely for the opposite reason from what you are referring to, ladies and gentlemen. As we speak of auctions and as we need to know what the reality is, I want to present you with the European Commission report of June 2019, which again talks about the previous government's commitment to completing the issue of auctions. I would like you to see it, Mr Xanthopoulou, because with it next time, if you want to talk about it again, I will also give you the real elements of the auctions, namely, how many auctions were made on SYRIZA and what effort has been made so far to either postpone or protect our vulnerable citizens from many legislative initiatives by this government. But I imagine you understand that the rule of law has all the appearances. Obviously they must be seen and supported. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] There are many issues which I think the ladies and gentlemen have raised from this step. Most of the answers to this level were given earlier by the State Secretary, Mr Kotsiras. But when, ladies and gentlemen, you come to me and say to me, for example, that with Article 62 we are actually creating an anachronistic institution - I am talking about judges who can see, in any case - I think either you have not followed the debate that took place in the committee with the presence of all the bodies or on the other hand we must refuse something that is generally acceptable. In any case, all the questions put as questions you know very well that they are resolved and answered by the court itself. They are not matters which one needs to describe in the analysis of this article. But if we want to be absolutely honest with each other, I think we all have to accept that at this time in particular there are many steps to deal with the pathogens of the past. There is a new era that one needs to see with adaptations, with changes, with reforms, with very targeted modernisation, which, to a very large extent, will also give answers to many questions relating to the area of justice. There is the amendment from the Ministry of Justice, which I had not been able to present earlier, and that is why I will be allowed to tell you some thoughts. Article 1 of that amendment sets out in the scope of the legal aid for fair satisfaction due to the overrun of the reasonable duration of the proceedings and the procedure before the judicial boards. This regulation also achieves the country's compliance with a decision of the European Court of Human Rights and abolishes the infringement of Article 6 of the ECHR. I think you know that. Article 2 provides for the automatic deferral of the case in the event of the absence of the lawyer appointed in the context of legal aid in criminal matters to the court by means of a direct notification to the proprietor of the reason for the deferral and of the new law. In this way, once again, the country's compliance with decisions of the HRC is achieved, and the obligation of that lawyer to act in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Law. Article 3 is intended to guarantee the proper functioning of the General Committee of the ordinary administrative courts through the immediate completion of the posts of the Vice-Presidents who will become vacant on 30 June, due to their retirement, as the age limit is reached. Article 4 provides for the possibility of covering the institutional positions of the Informatics Division of the Regular Administrative Courts and by transfer or transfer of already non-judiciary officials, in order to meet their needs without delay to qualified staff, in particular to support the ICM. Article 5 actually includes the Minister of Finance in signing the Joint Ministerial Decision on the manner and time of payment of the insurance contributions by European Prosecutors, as well as the technical mediation of services and the Ministry of Justice. You realise that the ministerial amendments are accepted. There was an amendment by SYRIZA colleagues too late. Well, at least I'm being informed by my partners, it's not the Ministry of Justice, it's the first department to be responsible, but the second to be responsible. I have the impression, Mr Xanthopoulou, that it is an issue that we can see. At first sight, it seems to have reason to consider it and with caution to see exactly where it is. Finally, I would like to reply to Mrs Konnakka. The question of the payment of legal aid is a huge issue, which I personally have been dealing with for two and a half years. This is because, on the basis of the existing legislation of the FIFG, and given that there must be the exclusive right to sign certain people, in order to clear up the pending legal aid cases and given that there is a serious undermining of the FIFG, there is an objective problem. We have made an effort with the administration of the Plenary Assembly and, in particular, with the President, to find a solution so that at least a sum can be paid ahead of the final liquidation. And I do not hide from you that we were at least too close to approaching and resolving this particular issue, as I mentioned it to you. However, because you realise that there must be a combination of the provisions of the Ministry of Finance and others' competence, we have not been able to be ready at the moment. That is why this article has been replaced by an authorisation granted in order to complete this procedure. I think it is incomprehensible and I am really sorry for what is happening. It's a shame. It is a reality that we know over a period of time. It is precisely the same reality that existed with the previous government. However, the point is that while there is the possibility of paying this money, there is no procedure to support the real liquidation of these cases. And I do not hide from you that I and my colleagues have consumed a very large number of hours, really many hours, in order to find a solution to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we could really talk a lot of time about matters in both the bill and justice in general. The truth is that in recent years we have completed an effort that, as I said, we had started earlier. We have already voted for the new Code of Justice, we have completed with two bills the new procedure of the Court of Auditors and we are coming today to close the gap with the changes to the Code of Civil Procedure. The Criminal Code is coming and, of course, all these issues that have dealt with us to a very great extent. I think the next two bills will concern, on the one hand, the reform of the ECHR, the National School of Judges and, on the other hand, the new body of courts and tribunals. In this way we are practically completing a very large reformist intervention in the area of justice. I will repeat what I have said many times. Three are the pillars of justice: they are people, judiciary, judicial officers and, of course, the officials of justice, that is, the procedures for jurisprudence, the way in which matters are approached, or even electronicisation, the digitisation of justice which we are promoting very rapidly, and of course infrastructures, buildings. As you mentioned the buildings, you know that the first PPP concerning central Macedonia has already gone ahead and we have already announced the public international competition for the new Piraeus Judicial Palace. There is planning work on two more PPPs in different geographical areas of the country and of course we have succeeded and have completed the construction of the new Athens Court of First Instance through the Recovery Fund just behind the court in order to have a modern prototype in the capital, to solve and respond to problems of decades, which, for a very long time, were not touching and no one was facing. I repeat, however, that all of this serves a truly organised reform plan, which we are actually completing, we are fulfilling a step, a step very carefully and very much, if you want, a sense of responsibility and all that we need to do specifically in the area of justice. We are modernising justice, ladies and gentlemen. We reform it in order to face pathogens and create better conditions and better conditions for justice. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the cubit that each of us puts, whether at a personal level or at a transmissible level, is specific. Some people go through the bar from the top. Some people are passing him underneath. The point is that the Greek citizens see us, and they watch us, and judge us. I think that what each one of us must keep, regardless of whether I repeat his political position or the more general ideological view that he can support and serve, is that at the end of the day society and our citizens are judging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote on the bill, I would like to inform the House of no. 9067/6422 from 11 October 2021 decision of the President of the Parliament on the formation of the Permanent Committees of the Parliament. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u316	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is hereby terminated: ‘Right political trial, adaptation of the provisions of the political procedure for the digitisation of justice policy, other amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and other urgent provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of ninety-three articles, four amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Make sure that you have voted on all the areas included in the vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u317	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u318	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u319	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Rapid political trial, adaptation of the provisions of the civil procedure for the digitisation of civil justice, other amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and other urgent provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u321	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-11-S1-commons.u322	With the consent of the House at noon 21.14' the sitting for the next Wednesday, 13 October 2021, at 12 noon, on the subject of Parliament's debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on the request for the waiver of immunity of Members of Parliament, Mr Paul Pavlakis and Mr Dionysios Kalamianou, in accordance with the special agenda.
