ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In the context of the Prime Minister's time - in accordance with Rule 129(2) and (3) and Rule 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure - will the question be debated by number 68/3/11-10-2021 of the Chief of Staff and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Alexis Tsipras to the Prime Minister on the subject: "Would the Prime Minister assume responsibility for the devastating effects of his Government on the management of the pandemic?". Speaking times, pursuant to Rule 132(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure are for the Member of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, ten minutes in order to develop the timely question, and five minutes in the form of the denology and the Prime Minister twenty minutes in the case of the prototyping and ten minutes in the case of the denology. Obviously there will be a tolerance, but we need to know that at 12 noon we have in the Senate Hall the event, which we are all guests, of the Commission "Greece 2021". The reason behind this is the Chief of Staff Response and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I considered it my duty to ask this question about the progress of the pandemic in the Prime Minister's time, because I think - and I think the statistics are an undeniable witness - that we are at an extremely negative turning point, because the course of the pandemic in the country has been extremely negative for some time now, especially since August. And the more worrying is the course of the pandemic, unfortunately, the more negative the country records in cases and deaths, the more those with government responsibility cease to discuss these issues. And that is a great contradiction. Since August, our country has been in the worst position in Europe in victims per million population. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents a document on the Minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Every week we lose about three hundred people in our country, or about a small village every week. And, from what we can see, the behaviour on the part of the government is like the pandemic case is over. They decided on their own to ‘bring the end’. Last year at this time we had a total of about four hundred losses since the pandemic began. And every three and a little - and I am right to say - you have informed the House of the course and development of the pandemic in our country. Today, one year later, we are mourning over fifteen thousand fellow citizens and systematically surpassing them in daily cases, but also in deaths, countries that have been the negative example since the beginning of the pandemic. And it's like nothing's wrong. On the government side, they play hidden. You're hiding. You're hiding to obviously hide your misfortune. But, in trying to hide you, you hide the truth from public dialogue. You hide the truth and the danger from the citizens and this is the most important and a climate of relaxation is created against the risk of loss of life. So today's initiative to discuss the course of the pandemic in the Prime Minister's time, I hope it will be a wake-up to a government that has given up its duty, at least, to tell the citizens the truth and, of course, to protect their lives. And I hope that it will also be an opportunity to tell truths and explain why things are very difficult again. There may be a positive outlook in the medium to long term, but we have before us an extremely difficult winter. Our country has therefore, since the beginning of August, been overtaken by deaths per million population - countries that experienced the health disaster, such as Italy, India, Sweden, the United Kingdom. You remember Sweden was the negative example, because - a country with a perfectly comparable population to that of our own country - it started in the logic of not taking strict measures. And it was the negative example. Now look at this course - I do not know if you can see it clearly, you will have seen the charts - where our country is going in relation to the United Kingdom, Germany, Portugal, France, Italy, Sweden in deaths, daily deaths, per million people. The discrepancy is scary. I put it in the Minutes to study it. After all, they are tables published in the 'FINANCIAL TIMES' and you have obviously studied them, you have seen them. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Comparing the countries of the European south, Spain, Portugal, France and Malta? Comparing to the European Union's average? Twice the index and distance of our country, in particular - I repeat - since August, where the indicators in us take the upward trend, while in all the other countries they appear to be stable. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And at the same time, the critical indicator for epidemiological indicators, the critical indicator, the contagion remains above the unit. This is considered particularly negative as it shows that a coronary infected also pollutes another one and thus the pandemic will not be burned. And all this before we see the impact of your decision to "wrap the end". I am referring to the government decision on the complete release of measures to focus on vaccinated persons before we see the results of this decision. The hospitals, despite the health crisis we are experiencing in the meantime, remain understaffed, without any serious aid, with a negative balance in recruitment - doctors' departures, even during the pandemic without permanent recruitment of nurses. At the same time, the main objective - because that is where you put all the eggs, in the good sense, I say it - in the package of vaccination - which was to create immunity walls from universal vaccination seems to be abandoned as a target. And the numbers are relentless. Greece has been long since the countries of the European south on vaccination coverage. Portugal, Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Malta, everyone is above us. We are twenty-seventh and nineteenth, compared with Eastern European countries in the vaccination coverage, having fully vaccinated less than 60% of the total population. I present the relevant table for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Other countries, for example, Portugal, which looks more like us, has 88% vaccination coverage and without tough measures of forced labour and wage deprivation. However, the Portuguese Government has convinced the citizens to move massively towards vaccination, at 88%, obviously because their word was credible. So there's something wrong here! About a million of our fellow citizens over fifty years of age have not made a single dose. One in four over eighty years, the most vulnerable, that is, if they get sick, can be found in the ICUs and lose their lives, remain inconsistent. The rates of vaccination in young and minors remain very low, while the level of vaccination of the lower classes, as in the rural areas of northern Greece, is considerably lower than the national average. There's something wrong here. Was it wrong the campaign strategy you did? The campaign climate, among young people in particular, was "switch, get 150 euros", "swap to get gigabites", "swap to go on vacation". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The climate, then, was not "swamp to save your life". The schools reopened for the second time, just as they closed, with the twenty-five and thirty-four students per class and over four thousand cases were recorded in the first week of October. In short, there has been double the rate of ill minors. And that's a critical indicator. It's reached 14%, and last year it was 7%. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] On this data, then, we are discussing today. And the big and critical question is one: 'Why?' Or more correctly, I would say, "Why again?" Why, after so many months of lockdown, the hardest in the European Union and the longest and most incomplete, with so many international experience we have gathered now, twenty months in pandemic conditions, international experience of virus behavior, why should we be back not on the lip, but on the cliff? For our part, the answer is simple. Because from the first moment you have moved in terms of communication and political feasibility. And when you saw the pandemic isn't ending with fuss and announcements, but it wants a plan and an in-depth job, you just quit. You flew "white towel" and said: "You are not bored, since we took advantage of the pandemic to get the majority of the media in state money, no one will deal with our failure. There will be failure there, the citizens will experience it, but they will not see it in their television receivers." And you let the country walk blindly. And, you know, it's so provocatively obvious that even your own executives call it, but we don't see it in the news, in the newspapers, in the websites, that they took millions, supposedly, for a campaign for vaccination and for the criticality of the coronary. That's where we don't read them. But even your MEPs, Mr Kurchos, have said so. Have you heard what Mr Kyrchos said, Mr. Mitsotakis, the related tweet he made? He wrote: “Three hundred a week die and it’s like nothing happens. Would we lose less than half if we improved pandemic policy at the level of the European Union's average?' They don't call these SYRIZA executives. Mr Kyrchos, Member of the European Parliament of the New Democracy, says so. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents a document on the Minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we need to be looking to see what your members say, because the greatest assumption of your vagabond failure has been made by you yourself, Mr Mitsotakis, by aggregating the dream team of calamism, which would supposedly have defeated even twice the pandemic and the virus. The head of the ETA was carved before answering about the double books. The Chief of Civil Protection has been reconstructed. The Minister of Health went to tourism. The Undersecretary of Health and your close associate, too, has been hammered. And the question is, how do you change a winning team that's done so well that it twice defeated the coronary? You don't change it. You change it from top to bottom, when this team leads you from defeat to defeat, when it's a crashing team. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And what did you do? What did you do when you changed the team? You have placed Mr. Plory in the position of Minister. I personally like man, but his views are well known. And his extremes in the political spectrum - come from the extreme right - but also his views earlier on vaccination. So why did you place Mr. Pleari there? Maybe because he's an expert, you sold us that story too? You know, Greece is a country that has the peculiarity of having a lawyer Minister for Health and a doctor Minister for Justice! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He's not an expert, Mr. Plearis! You placed him there for a single purpose: To close the eye in the anti-invasive movement. Because they come from the same political womb, the far right! That's why you put Mr. Pleari there! And to bypass more easily the scientists "whispering the end" of the pandemic with a government decision. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Really, since I said scientists, what happened to this notorious expert committee? Do you ask them at all when you make decisions? They're meeting? Deciding? Do they know? At the beginning of the pandemic you said to all tons that the suggestions of this committee are your "good news". Now what? You left them behind, too, because they're probably unpleasant to you now. And finally, after all this mechanism was replaced, the question is who makes decisions on the pandemic. Who decided on the liberalisation measures actually announced a few weeks ago? Who has been asked and consented to these decisions? Because we have a large number of statements by scientists expressing a strong concern to open up disagreement. We're not the experts to say if it's wrong or right. I ask you who was recommended, and if there's any approval. I also ask you who is planning - this is a second crucial question - and implements the vaccination strategy. Today we have six and a half million doses and while the third dose has begun, it is more than three million of our fellow citizens who have not made the first. So we have six and a half million instalments indisposed, while your government talks about a pandemic of unvaccinants and constantly reproduces the theory of individual responsibility. But when are we going to talk about your responsibilities? When? When will you personally assume a responsibility? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] When are we going to talk about your responsibility to make a serious information campaign, about the importance and value of vaccination for life protection and not to treat the campaign as an opportunity and as a media take-up vehicle for your deposition? When are we going to talk about your responsibility to isolate disabling preachers with the offspring, while you share money for them, because their emissions are being screened in pro-government media, in a regional media of your friends who perpetuate that the virus is a fraud and a masonic device to reduce the population? Do you have any of this in mind? When are we going to talk about a government's responsibility to stay alert, not to cultivate the reassurance of citizens, to tell the truth about the dangers, and to tell the truth about the fact that the virus is touching and the vaccinated? We don't sign a contract with regularity when we're vaccinated. And you called it "Liberty Operation"! We must continue to respect the measures and the precautions that have been taken. Besides, seeing every day the statistics you announce, a very large proportion, 12%, 13%, 14% - correct me if I am wrong - of those in intensive care units are vaccinated with both doses. But you, in your communication paroxysis, displayed the vaccine as a solution for everything and lacked credibility from the vaccination process itself. No scientist on the planet says we're done with the vaccine. The only ones you said were you, to throw the blame on you for all the rest that you have to do as a government. And it's not that you've been caught in eppine. This case is twenty months now! You also did so to throw over you the responsibility that a government has to offer serious primary care infrastructures, especially in the time of the pandemic that it seemed our primary health reform was not just groundbreaking, but absolutely vital when you mocked it four years ago. You, with your insistence, chose in these circumstances the local health units to be left to their full abandonment until European funding expires. Of course, since you had an obvious plan and aim to abolish them from the outset. So let us talk about the responsibility a government has to make the National Health System a security wall for citizens and not a black hole. The ESS over your days is not only subordinated, but now it is highly indebted, because in time of pandemic you have reduced regular funding for 2021 and kept it low for 2022. At the same time, the late obligations of hospitals have almost tripled in a year and a half. From 344 million euros in December 2019 they went to 927 million euros in July 2021. These are your budget items. After you have allowed the National Health System to shut up organizingly, now go and destroy it financially. And it turns out, then, that this pandemic case is a transient boor that does not require long-term and brave investment in the public system. However, even in the happier scenario, the pandemic will retreat completely and soon, the financial needs of the health system will be much more increased than before, precisely because the one-thematic operation of the ESS has now created uncovered health requirements for a year and a half. And I come to a crucial issue, too. One of the most important consequences of the virus is the lives that are lost by other causes and not by the coronary, because the system is unable to respond, but also because you have decided to convert the hospitals to exclusive CVID care, what our hospital's ‘COVIDation’ health workers call. In the first ten months of the pandemic there were three million nine hundred thousand fewer visits to regular afternoon hospitals, two million three hundred thousand less in health centers and eight thousand less surgical interventions than in the pre - pandemic period. Of these eight thousand fewer surgery, do you think they were all unnecessarily necessary, not urgent? The National Health System has largely suspended its regular function for twenty months. The private sector was, of course, strengthened as a side-effect, increasing private health spending too much and leaving without systematic monitoring and care for patients who did not have the financial capacity to seek services outside the ERC. And this in a country that already had one of the largest percentages of private health spending in the world. 40% of total health expenditure is in private spending, according to OECD figures. This development has caused "side" losses, such as the appalling increase in excess mortality. But no one's talking about it. Nobody's talking about excess mortality. Only the dead of COVID count! Aren't the others human lives? We have eight thousand four hundred more deaths in 2020, in addition to the ones from COVID, in relation to the average of the deaths that the country has in the five-year period 2015-2019. What does that mean by the additional deaths in Greece? Because you're going to say it was a side-effect of pandemic and we couldn't help but do it. Look at this in Europe! The additional deaths in Greece - not attributed to COVID - are more than twice as high as the European average. It is 45.2% in Greece compared with 20% in the European Union average. So something's wrong! Something's not doing well for twenty months now! These figures I'm telling you, the undeniable statistics reflect a reality that you want to look after! But this reality is tragic even if it is not presented in the news reports! That is why we will not get tired, Mr Mitsotakis and ladies and gentlemen of the government, to say that you need to change the table. You must stop hiding the tragedy of the loss of human life under the carpet, investing in media groups and the habit of losing. That's tragic. But that's what you're doing. We know what needs to be done. We're no longer in completely uncharted waters. International practice is now rich and we need to change courses now, so that no more lives are lost unjustly. In addition to speeding up and completing the vaccination project, it is therefore necessary to adopt a new health strategy, which must incorporate adequate epidemiological surveillance with extensive testing and timely detection, tracing and isolation of cases, organised pre-innovation management of cases and home care with involvement of primary health care and public health and social services of municipalities and self-government, brave reinforcement of the public health system at all levels, targeted and convincing information for citizens by health professionals and their scientific bodies, full use of health education in schools, universities, workplaces and social co-operation. The more they come into contact with the valid scientific information, the more efficient the doubt, insecurity and denial will be addressed. It also needs protection of the National Health System against ‘COVIDisation’ and reliable coverage of all other citizens' health needs. Immediate measures are needed even now to dismantle schools, with fewer pupils per department. We cannot continue to close our eyes and thousands of families at noon to tremble their pamphlet when the children return from school. Finally, I will say another crucial parameter concerning the use of medicinal products that can save lives. Until recently you've been denying it. But, in order to be absolutely honest, even now that you have accepted it enormously, the picture we have is that this is not enough. The European Union has only recently secured two hundred and twenty thousand monoclonals for some four hundred eight million people. About five thousand of them are in Greece. Initiatives at the level of the European Union are therefore necessary to change the international framework in pharmaceutical policy, to remove the patent we have said about vaccines, now and in the case of medicine, so that all production capacities can be exploited and the weapons of science can be reached in time, either the vaccine or the medicine, more quickly and more extensively in the people who need it. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the citizens are well aware that the attitude of aggregation on pandemic issues from the very beginning has been a stand of responsibility on the sole basis of the safety and health of every citizen in this country. We have tabled proposals, we have put back on critical decisions and choices - it was not self-evident - we have constantly discussed and discussed with the scientific community and the world at the forefront of the battle, so that these proposals are specific, processed and directly applicable. And we will continue to do that, because there is an absolute need. However, at the same time and morally, it is our duty to make tough and strict criticism of a government and a Prime Minister who has chosen the path of conscious apathy to pandemic, to a government and to a Prime Minister who has little or no say to the citizens 'You have a responsibility. Cut your neck and bet - I repeat - on the habit of losing, on the split many times, on the fear and insecurity they feed themselves. The country, however, is not governed by a simulation. The lives of 11 million people are not a social experiment. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Ministers, I invite you to come together and take measures here and now to save human lives! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm not oppositioning you. I call on you to lift up the circumstances and stop facing the greatest risk to the country in terms of micro-participatory purposes. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Finally put the real survival of the citizens of this country over your own artificial political survival!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u3	Immediately afterwards, the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, shall take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Since today's debate concerns health, let me, too, move from this step forward on behalf of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to Fofi Gennamas, our sincere wishes for pass-by and quickly to be with us again. Mrs. Gennamas has given and gives with very great dignity the biggest fight. And since sometimes these human trials have to make us more aware, it is important to bear in mind that at such times that, from de facto such great adventures, they monopolize - and rightly so - publicity is perhaps an opportunity, Mr Tsipras, to show more reflexive division, mutual respect and to be able, at last, to be adversaries, without being enemies, without being individualizing all our political controversies, and without actually taking the view - that everything that is wrong in this country is personal responsibility, that is, my own, that is, Prime Minister. I now come to the subject of your question today, starting with a mandatory answer to the position you have taken, that the Government has allegedly "blocked the end" of the war against the pandemic. Where did you see that written? Where does this conclusion come from, when the government continues to promote the treatment of pandemic to the great health challenge that we have to deal with today, when we continue and give the battle every day to convince our fellow citizens that we must be vaccinated and increase our vaccination rates, when I personally continue to hold three meetings at least a week with the health staff by studying all the data of the pandemic and at all times ending up with our imposed reactions to a phenomenon that we have not yet been able to overcome, and so is it in all the countries of the world? So I come here today in this House to be able to give a series of answers, to present the true picture of the situation to the citizens, because in fact the coronary epilogue may be written with greater or lesser difficulties in our country, but this does not mean that the lies that SYRIZA invoked, nor unfortunately, the misinformation that runs through your entire policy, do not apply. That is why I am here today to talk and answer by quoting the facts. The real facts, you know, Mr Tsipras, are not just about the photograph of the moment, but about the total treatment of the pandemic since it hit our country. I repeat, therefore, because you always choose to present the country's truly bad image at the level of the last month's deaths as an indication of how we have dealt with the pandemic in all the eighteen months: these are the real and inconsistent elements, Mr Tsipras. They are about the macabre statistics of deaths, but they say that since the first moment the pandemic hits the European Union, Greece has been in a much better position than the European average with a thousand four hundred and four hundred deaths per million population, when countries such as Italy have two thousand hundred and eighty, countries like Belgium have two thousand two thousand two hundred and worst nine protagonist countries, such as Bulgaria and Hungary have exceeded the three thousand deaths per million. I imagine that you are not questioning this statistics, Mr Tsipras, which, as I said to you, reflects the overall approach of the pandemic since March 2020. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And it's a very big mistake methodological, as experts will tell you to isolate what's going on in the country for a few weeks and you can't see the big picture. Secondly, you referred incorrectly in my view to the fact that the country has excessive mortality and because of COVID, but over-imposed mortality and if one excludes deaths from COVID. Firstly, we do not present any excess mortality due to COVID. Ask the scientists. I have here, too, because I also have the obligation to be scientifically informed, a very detailed analysis of the elements of the so-called 'Case Fatality Rate' - I imagine that your experts have informed you what this indicator is - which shows that Greece is absolutely in line with the European average as regards the percentage of our fellow citizens who are ill with COVID and unfortunately end up unfortunately. Of course, the evidence you presented about supposedly excessive mortality in the country of 2020, I would very much like you to present it to us in the Minutes, because, as far as I know, there is absolutely no evidence at all, because I have asked the experts who advise us, which leads us to the conclusion that the country had a total excess mortality if one excludes COVID in 2020. So please, Mr. Tsipras, testify... No, don't open your hands supposedly indignant. I would ask you very kindly to submit the relevant information in the Minutes and I am delighted to make it available to your scientific staff, to your own scientists, so that we can compare the information in order to finally understand who is right and who is wrong. Thirdly, as all hospitals in the country say, those who are severely ill - unfortunately, many of them are invaded - are almost all uninvasive from 88% to 90% of...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u5	So did I.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u6	No, you said something else. You let it be understood at the edge of your speech that the 12% rate that is invaded vaccines proves, essentially, that the vaccine is not the only response to the pandemic. You're wrong, Mr. Tsipras! You're making a mistake! Once again, you twist the actual statistical data. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The reality of the matter, for which there is no doubt in this Chamber, is that the only response we have at the moment to the coronary scourge is vaccine. This is demonstrated by the fact that nine out of ten people are invasive and is also demonstrated by all the medical data that tell us that our invasive fellow citizens have - be careful - from thirteen to twenty-fold more possibilities, depending on their age always, to be severely ill compared to the vaccinated. Fifth element, vaccines have proved extremely safe. More than 6.6 billion doses have been made throughout the world. They have fewer side effects than just medicines that can often take for the simple headache. Instead, the harmful effects of COVID, even after the illness, unfortunately accompany the patient for many more years. The important statistical element is that vaccination is alleviating the health system. You made a comparison between the first, second and third waves. I imagine that you, too, are well aware that with the vaccination rates that the country has - I will then come to how we can improve our performance - in relation to what was happening in the second or third waves we have significantly fewer hospitalisations with a corresponding frequent number of cases. We have about 72% of adults who have been vaccinated, even with one dose, we have a thousand nine hundred nurses and we have three hundred sixty with about three hundred invasions, which means, Mr Tsipras, that we now have the possibility of actually being able to deal at the same time with the COVID pandemic and the other diseases that the National Health System has to deal with. And as far as public health is concerned, I think it is enough to hear a recent assessment of scientists: if adults over sixty years of age were vaccinated at 95% instead of 80%, which unfortunately is today, the intubated today instead of three hundred sixty would have been a little more than fifty. Unfortunately, however, the same goes for, that is, the possibility of being seriously ill, and for our younger fellow citizens. He referred to this issue, with strong evidence, and Mrs Mina Gaga personally. We have lost three fellow citizens, twenty-eight, thirty and thirty-nine, in the last two weeks. So what else do I ask, do we have to say to our fellow citizens that the vaccine is safe and enforced in order to protect their health and the health of those who love it? Life itself now clearly shows who and where they are in danger. As Professor Chiodras quite clearly said, the more the vaccinations in an area are the less the nursing and the loss. We also see it in our own place. Northern Greece - and this is a problem - has relatively low rates of vaccination, so it has the most ill and most deaths. On the islands the same problem is not observed. They were vaccinated much faster, with increased rates, less nursing, less deaths. Crete, which was at first lacking in percentages, succeeded and covered the lost ground. The vaccines, therefore, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of my fellow citizens, proven to save all our lives and our debts, still convince those who hesitate to take this step for their own good and for their good around them. Much more so when the government's position is given: the economy and society will not be closed again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And the health system will never become a one-front again with an exclusive reference to COVID. This is a position of principle which I would very much like you to tell us in your dentistry whether you support it or have something different. It is also a question of justice against the six million and a half thousand fellow citizens who have rushed to be vaccinated and who are now regaining the freedoms they deserve. Of course the state will continue to take care of the very few who have not been vaccinated by maintaining protection measures for them. This is also the state's mission: security, health and freedom for all. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a national affair everywhere on the planet. In most countries there was a cross-party convergence. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same thing about what has happened in the past twenty months. The health crisis and selective data have become very often the subject of cheap opposition, and indeed, through acts that have often undermined the state's measures, but also with a rhetoric that poisons public opinion, sows and ultimately prevents the crisis from being overcome. Because I believe that today's 'timely question', signed by Mr Tsipras, succeeds in the two-ten words of its introduction: arbitrary comparisons, false conclusions and miserable complaints. Only one does not contain and I have not heard it today in your speech, some seriously substantiated proposal with realistic solutions. What did you tell us, Mr. Tsipras, today? ‘Do more vaccinations and strengthen the health system’. Really? Is that really what we're waiting for today? Is that what we are waiting for today as a government from the Civilian Opposition? Is that your documented proposal? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So how superficial can a party's approach be, in any case, to the country for four years? So let's go over the real facts a little more thoroughly. I'm starting with the vaccinations. According to European statistics, as I have told you, at least one dose has been received in our country by at least six million fellow citizens, 72% of adults, compared with 80% of the European average. It is a percentage which, today, if compared to the citizens' intentions, as manifested in polls in December 2020, is higher than what the citizens told us then that we would achieve as a rate of vaccination. Of course we would like to have better results. But what do these data mean and how can we achieve in our joint national effort to convince more and more fellow citizens that they need to be vaccinated? What does that mean in practice? Is it a conscious political failure? Is it social fatigue? Are they cultural or possibly religious peculiar? Of course it is all this, but at the same time it is also the undermining of a common sense front that should have been agitated from the outset, but unfortunately it has never been shaped. I'm open to discuss all this. But let me say that it has never been the case, and that on the contrary it lives and reigns the latter. The state, perhaps by mistakes, but always consistently, has done its duty for two years. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Officership, did you really serve yours? I take over the initial phase of the pandemic, when we first made the difficult decision to close the country, when you were calling and insisted on the carnival of Patras, nor did I call for more than doubled the ITHs - five hundred five of us - in record time and I am forgetting that every time the schools opened, you were asking to close and when the schools were closed, you were asking to open. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I also go through, Mr Tsipras, your ignorance of the tracking system and of the tests that have been carried out, the constant backwards to the crucial issue of tourism, the demonstrations that you take responsibility in the middle of a lockdown, but also your guilty silence about the EUR 41 billion government programme that kept workers, businesses and society upright. For the economy of the debate, I leave all this behind in order to reach the crucial issue where vaccines are. Let's go see some of your attitude as a whole to the issue of vaccination and if what you say you made a constructive opposition and never undermined the vaccination effort. So let's go see them in a row. At first, you told us that there were no vaccines. Isn't that right? You told us there were no vaccines in November last year. Then you told us that the vaccines are being undone, implying that some vaccines can be more effective than others and actually leading to what you said, undermining one of the vaccines, because you actually came as former Prime Minister and leader of the opposition, implying that some vaccines are better than others. To put aside what you were saying, that they can be replaced with vaccines from Russia or Cuba and that in any case there is some magical medicine, which Mr Paulakis obviously indicated to you - I do not see now in the Chamber, hastened to leave - which, for some reason that no one can understand is going to give it to the citizens, while he could save them. I would remind you that one of these medicines is a veterinary medicine, which Mr. Paulakis told us why you did not prescribe, when the CDC in America made communications that to God, the medicine is for cows and calves, and you told us to take it home! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Well, that's the reality of how you dealt with your vaccination policy as a whole. And yes, the fact, Mr. Tsipras, that the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paulakis, was the protagonist of the anti-infectious movement...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u7	Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u8	What's the result of this? In his statements, all of his statements. And the fact that he was barely vaccinated when he found that he could not carry out his duties as a doctor is the best proof that you actually stepped on two boats. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Look, the Greek state did its full duty, giving all citizens quick access to whatever vaccine they wanted to do. He did so in one way, on a presumption, exemplary. No one thinks that it can question that the operation "LEVELERIA" was something unprecedented about the data of the Greek state, and about its digital dimension, and about the level of organisation, and about interoperability, which allowed and enabled the armed forces to cooperate with the National Health System and provide a smile and safety vaccine to all citizens in every corner of the country. I would like to remind you that the operation 'Frequently' in our country was not a mere case. We had to deal with important peculiarities, such as our islands, isolated areas, special populations, where we knew we had a great deal of communication to highlight the benefits of vaccination. However, we have all been able to achieve this. And you compared it to Portugal. And indeed Portugal is a model, it is a model in which all European countries should at some point see what the Portuguese have done correctly and how we can improve our performance. But in Portugal, because I looked into the framework of the political dialogue, there has never been a slightest question about the vaccination effort, much more from the opposition officer's party. You recommend a peculiarity, Mr Tsipras, because everywhere the anti-infectious voices actually came from the extremes of the political spectrum, from the extreme right more often and sometimes from the extreme left. You have actually allowed it - or you have been tolerated, encouraged, I do not know, you will answer that - within your own party there is a public bilingualism which has undermined the stiff front of the vaccination effort. And every time we tried to increase the rate of vaccination you had a review. When we chose the difficult measure of compulsory vaccination of health workers and elderly people, what did you tell us? "Well, you do, but we have no impact on compulsoryity." You have discovered the "optional compulsoryity", as if there could be some mandatory State intervention without any consistency for him who does not comply. I am trying to really think about these twenty months if there was something that this government did, something, even one thing that it did to deal with the pandemic, which you said: 'Yes, that is right, well done by the government and we support it'. One thing to tell me, one thing. You did not even have a good word to say about the fact that we were the protagonists of the EU Digital Pass, which finally allowed the country to open up tourism with the positive results, and that is why you did not find a positive talk to say. For the Freedom Pass, to which you referred, you have followed it, Mr Tsipras, from the very beginning. You said we were going to buy out the young people. Freedom Pass is what increased the vaccination rates from 15% to 60%. Evidently it was an effective measure. So what are we talking about when each 'yes' of the government was following a 'no' of counterpopulation? And one last thing, Mr. Tsipras. You told us, if I remember correctly, that you'd be doing a campaign in favor of the vaccine, right? Didn't you say you were going to campaign as a party in favor of the vaccine? Do you have any creative results of this nice campaign that you would have done in favor of the vaccine in this House? For words, words, words of air, just to present a profile supposedly consensual, when at every opportunity you undermined the great national effort to deal with this problem. And we do still have issues that we need to discuss with courage and honesty in this Chamber, regions of the country where we unfortunately have low vaccination coverage. I have them here: Evrytania, Kilkis, West Attica, Pieria, Drama, Fokida, Elias, Serres, Pella, Xanthi, Florina. Absolute relevance of invasion rates to vaccination rates. And yes, unfortunately, northern Greece is a leading player in death today, and we should step up the communication effort at all levels, force local communities, mayors, local metropolitans, send - and we have already done so - vaccination workshops in regional units with the lowest vaccination coverage. We did that, too. Unfortunately, there the results were not the expected results. You have referred to the involvement of primary health, and I do agree with that. One of the reasons why we have unfortunately not done so well in relation to other European countries in the vaccination rates is that in the last 50 years the country has had a weak primary health system. But when we motivated private doctors of EUR 50 per vaccination at home and EUR 20 for vaccination in the hospital, unfortunately, only two hundred and six doctors responded, and that is something to worry about. I would therefore like to finish - so that I do not take any more time - to read a post of a doctor who gives the battle to our public hospitals and who I believe best responds to the effort you have made today on the pandemic to make opposition instead of being creative, useful and to come to this debate with substantial proposals. Before I read it, I would like to ask you again. We have low rates of vaccination in relation to the European average. What do you propose just to increase these percentages? We did a communication campaign, as all the other countries did, with much larger amounts than Greece gave. Did we do well to have a communication campaign or not? Ask, did we do okay? Should we or should we not have a communication and information campaign? Was our campaign a good one? Was it our poor campaign? You, if you were a government, would you otherwise make the campaign? Is it really necessary to inform the public, and now that we are talking about it, is it still necessary to give further information to the public in order to convince the suspects that they should be vaccinated? So answer directly, Mr Tsipras, when you come up to the Step after that, to these specific questions. What else would you do if you were in the position that I am? So I'm closing up with this post, which I think says everything. Sit down and compare dead, while waves are periodicals, without taking into account that the United States and England, with stronger health systems, have a higher mortality than any developed country. There, what? Are they worse? Do they have more intraocular infections? They don't have any staff? They don't have a better bed ratio? Look at embolizing your elderly relatives and leave the excuses for deaths. We chose as a country to stay invasive, justifying our Balkan origin, and now we are trying to say what? How are we not effective? So come on, all of us together, to disprove these theories and not to classify the country as a Balkan peculiarity. I repeat, we remain with five percentage points of the European average. We can even today convince at least half a million of our fellow citizens to take the step and be vaccinated. Our fellow citizens over the age of sixty, who are at risk of more and second priority, are our young people from thirteen to twenty-five, where low vaccination rates are still observed. Finally, because you claimed that this government has whistled the end to the battle of the pandemic and that the media have stopped talking about the pandemic, when did you last see a news report, Mr Tsipras? I don't remember, I don't watch them often, but there's no day when the death numbers don't appear in the news reports. Not a day! Every day - and they do well, because this obviously requires information and awareness - they refer to the number of deaths, the cases and the percentages of our fellow citizens, who are persecuted. Consequently, where does it appear that the government has purchased the media in order to be able to achieve their silence in dealing with the pandemic? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would therefore expect, Mr Tsipras, and today and today, by you, a little more - I would not say serious - the formation and a little more creative tabling of proposals so that you can actually disprove those who, I believe, are blaming you that in every difficulty you see an opportunity. After all, Mrs Ahtsioglou told us very well that for the Left normality was never an opportunity. I'm sorry to disprove you of normality and Greece is becoming a normal country again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u9	We are now in the middle of the second phase to complete the debate. The Chief of Officerial Representation and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u10	Mr Mitsotakis spoke of the formation when he made the most incoherent and incomprehensible speech I have seen since the Prime Minister took over. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's a shame. And it's a pity, because you were given an opportunity today to make a self-criticism, admit errors and omissions, see the problem, tell the Greek people truth and call on the opposition to a coup d'état to deal with the common risk. And you came here - really, the Truth Team makes your speeches? - With what arguments? What arguments have you objected to us? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Targeted remarks, very specific criticisms and proposals. Incoherent charges, arrested against anti-Population, no responsibility of your own, all responsibilities or opposition. And he is courageous, because a few weeks ago you were a key speaker in Valencia at the Spanish People's Party conference, where Pablo Kassado, a leader there of the People's Party is leading an opposition - you know these - who in the regional elections to win the district of Madrid his chosen Isabel Día - something similar between Vorides or Georgiadis and Mr. Plori who is right and a little from Bogdano - went out and blamed the Sanchez Government for the vaccination, for Lockdown and had tried to create a resistance movement against the measures taken by the government in Spain. So you went out there and said to him: 'Congratulations, resist populism'. And you come here and you are addressing Anti-Population in Greece, which has, from the first moment, supported the hardest lokdowns, which have supported social distance measures, which have, from the first moment, supported the vaccination, which has even supported elementary freedoms - it was not self-evident - to be lifted temporarily. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you come and you blame us for not putting back. We have come a year ago and told you: 'Come and have a meeting of political leaders to deal with the pandemic, let us put a joint Minister of Health, come and take common steps'. You refused everything and now you're coming here to forsake us! Which country do you live in, Mr. Mitsotakis? You're Prime Minister these twenty months. You're Prime Minister, do you have any responsibility? Does it not have anything to do with the fact that you and your Government have failed to convince yourself? Portugal achieved 88% vaccination, despite this vulgar right-wing opposition, does Spain have a higher rate of vaccination and for you here is the fault of SYRIZA? You want to see? Tell us, have all your MPs been vaccinated? Tell us! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Why are you constantly referring to SYRIZA, he came out front - yes! - and campaigns with what SYRIZA has - there's not much in it, 105.5 "In Red" has, "AYU" has - in favour of vaccination, as can be! There's no 41,000 euros from the state fund, SYRIZA, to campaign! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So instead of coming and making an account and telling us what this campaign achieved, how targeted it was, who convinced, you come and criticize SYRIZA. You're incorrigible, Mr. Mitsotakis. Wasn't you the one who said we were starting the last mile for freedom in the early '21s? Give an answer to the Greek people why has this mile become endless Golgotha? Don't you have any responsibility? You have Mr. Plearis next door. I shall not refer either to his policy of wombling, to his political testimonies, to his views and to his statements from the past, and I shall refer to what he said in July as a Member and a central member of the New Democracy, the governmental party, to the vaccination, that 'the vaccines we have them, the targets', we would now catch them if the citizen does not want to be vaccinated, excuse me, you cannot put what is the government's fault, if he did not have the vaccines. If he doesn't want the citizen to be vaccinated, is it my responsibility to convince him? Or is it himself the responsibility of going to vaccination?’ He said it was not the government's responsibility to convince citizens of vaccination and you made him a minister! And you come here and you keep talking about us? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And from what I saw, above your detestant style, that we supposedly don't know, that "you will tell us about indicators, to let me know..." - as I am, you are very special! - You come here and say things that you're accusing me of once again that I don't have any evidence. This is the multiplier you have done and for once you are caught indisputable, because the issue of exaggerated mortality is a real issue and a problem that exists, which in 2021 has been magnified. Here I will give you the information for 2020, based on the Ministry of Interior. Do you know the data from the Ministry of Interior?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u11	Does the Ministry of Interior calculate this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u12	Ministry of the Interior, Statistics on Administratorial Acts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u13	But you can't be so disrespectful!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u14	Let's go now that you're the expert! You're the expert! You're also ignorant, you don't know the evidence! You're arrogant. You come here and move our finger! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Stop swinging the finger at last. You're responsible. You have fifteen thousand dead on your back. Stop swinging the finger. Mr Mitsotakis, it was not my desire to make today a coroner confrontation, but with evidence, with arguments, with positions. Mr President, if I have gone too far, I would ask that the designations be deleted from the Minutes. The figures of the Ministry of Interior say: We had a hundred and twenty-one thousand three deaths in 2015, eighty-eighty thousand in 2016, a hundred twenty-four in 2017, a hundred twenty-thousand in 2018, a hundred twenty-four thousand in 2019, a hundred thirty-five thousand in 2020. How many people were dead from the coronary in 2020? How many were dead from the coronary? There were eight and a half thousand more deaths from the average of the past five years - that's what I told you - in 2020. What's their fault? Why is this excess mortality due? Keep the information on the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So we don't have to fight over numbers. Let's see the reasons, we can track down the problem. I also submitted to you that the excess mortality from the average of the previous years in the period of COVID in Greece is 40%, while in the rest of the European Union the average is 20%. So there's a problem somewhere. It's the COVID - hospitalization. It is the fact that eight thousand surgery less took place in the first ten months of the pandemic. What don't you understand from that? What am I saying unreasonable? Instead of beating around the problem, you are here with a unique commitment to opposition to the opposition, and indeed, in a way of arrogant, which is inconsistent with your position. I asked you and you don't answer: Who gave you the advice or who approved your design? I, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen of the government, am neither an infectious or epidemiologist. I'm not going to place myself on if epidemiologically right or wrong a decision is made. But from the beginning of the pandemic you have followed a proper doctrine: We are listening to experts. And we said that we experts are listening to what the experts say. So today, I ask you where the experts are and what the experts say. Because here I have a series of statements - I will not bother to read them to you - a series of serious, in any case, people of epidemiologists, doctors whose reason has been given a special publicity and gravity throughout the previous period, such as Mr Sarigiannis, Mr Kapravellos, Mrs Fuka and even Mrs Pagony are talking about an experiment and a risk. I'm not saying that. I make their statements in the Minutes. I'm not bothering to read them to you - à - mot. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And in this case, the crucial question is: Do you have any plan to strengthen the vaccination course, which is too low? Have you done an evaluation, some serious social research, to identify the underlying causes of vaccination in the different regions of the country? Why is this problem identified in northern Greece much larger than in other regions? Have you made an assessment of whether these choices, which you defended again to convince young people, have they finally had the opposite effect? I am referring to EUR 150, I am referring to a logic of 'do it' and you are out of your mind'. I told you in my speech that 12% -13% of those on ICUs are fully vaccinated and that is what you went to reverse it, showing that 88% are inconsistent. Yeah, make a bumma, 88% invasive, 12% vaccinated. What don't you understand? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But be careful. It's not wrong. You wanted to turn the argument. Your great anxiety is to present us as supposed defenders of the opinion that the vaccine is not a weapon. How many times are we gonna say that? The vaccine is our main weapon, it's not the only one. It's our base weapon! But what did I want to tell you? Understand what I wanted to tell you and what we're telling you. Do you create a climate of complacentness for the vaccinated that you were vaccinated and finished, while science itself tells us and Israel's very example of what it says to us? Every three and a little chat with Mr. Burla. Has it not told you that, in six months, effectiveness has fallen from 90% to 60% and that, in particular in Israel, as long as the time goes, the percentages of vaccines in intensive ones are much higher? And that is why the process has been speeded up in Israel, and after the positive results in Israel from the third dose, all the rest in the world are moving on to the third dose. But why do you not understand the simple argument that, when you give the citizen the reassurance 'you're smeared, you're done', it's wrong? It's about 13% today. I wish we were not going any further, but it is about a percentage of people who are intensive and who are in danger of losing their lives and who have been vaccinated. If these people were more careful, we might have saved their hospitality. That's the argument. How simple! I now come to other issues, because you have caused me. You challenged me on the campaign issue. You told us: 'Why didn't you campaign, tell me here whether it was right or wrong that we campaigned'. Mr. Mitsotakis, you didn't campaign. You found an opportunity, as you speak of opportunities, to build a status in information, to build a status of direct assignments and not to speak, to build and build your status. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's what you did, Mr. Mitsotakis. You have exploited pandemic as an opportunity to have absolute control over the political life of the place. You were the first to teach. Mr. Kurts in Austria was just a student next to you. After all, when with a lot of nerve Kurts was building events to award him freedom in the media - and now he's being persecuted by the justice for the effort he made to guide the media with money and procedures that are obviously illegal - he called on you to go talk about how good he is and how good a democrat and how excellent he faces the media with pluralism. And I would like to ask you, Mr Mitsotakis, this. The others will be in the Committee of Inquiry, which will be set up for the first time by votes and the adoption, as I see it, of all the opposition parties, using Article 68(2) of the Constitution, which enables the opposition to control the current government. We'll have time to talk. We will have time to see on what criteria this money was given, what were the criteria that 99% were given to pro-government instruments and only 1% to some opposition. You'll tell us. You may have criteria. We'll see. But I come to another subject which is even more critical. And that will be discussed there, but listen to it now. You have therefore given more than EUR 40 million to inform citizens about the pandemic and to persuade citizens to be vaccinated. The tragic result is to be seen. We are in the last places in the European Union in vaccination. But that's not why it's all your old age. It is also because you financed - I do not know if it was done with your own knowledge, but it has been done - that the'sprayed' go out on various regional channels to disperse false news and say a number of nonsense. At the moment that a preliminary examination by the Prosecutor's office is being carried out for those who are dispersing false news, you through the Petsa list - which is a Mitsotakis list obviously, the man was - you were coming and financing these media, which in their programme had been placed on a permanent basis on various "sprayed" to say nonsense. Or didn't you do that? So I ask you in particular now: why and on what basis did you give 'VERGINA TV' 20,000, the well-known channel of Mr. Georgiadis's best man, in which the presenter claimed and claimed on a permanent basis that Soros and Gates, are trying to impose the vaccination in order to earn billions of profits? Or isn't that what they're telling you? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I also ask you: why and on what criteria have you financed dozens of channels in the region, which, from the beginning of the pandemic, promote emissions with legal advice against the use of mask and vaccination? I have a huge list when the time comes. There are dozens of media in the region and in Attica, regional. Tell us, too, Mr Mitsotakis, why did you give 16,000 euros to a Thracian channel to propaganda that the pandemic's aim is to kill fifteen thousand children to produce a pound of tempered color? What the hell is this temperament, a god knows! We will testify all this in the examination that will be set up we will discuss all of this one by one. One by one! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] With what logic do you fund the "sprayed" campaign against vaccination and then come here and say that the opposition is to blame? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] My question, then, is very specific: in what sense did this funding become? And also my other question is very specific: what has the last campaign of the Ministry of Health carried out in order to boost vaccination and what are its results? And another question I asked, too, very specific, which you did not answer: why are Mr Ploris and Mrs Gaga next to you? What did the others do wrong? Didn't you say that we succeeded in the pandemic, that the former leadership made it all extremely important, that he tried to strengthen tourism as he strengthened health? Why has the Undersecretary disappeared, who was your close associate? Why did you change him? Why is the head of the EGE today unanswered without answering the critical questions that have been asked, not only by SYRIZA, but also by opposition press that does not go to SYRIZA in terms of double books, records, alchemys? I ask you very specific questions. My view, Mr Mitsotakis, is that you are also facing pandemic, unfortunately, with the same lightness and the same effort to gain political benefits with micro-party purposes. But pandemic should be a common place for everyone in order to face the number one danger of saving human lives. And you don't change your mind about the need for the National Health System. You sent me in. You said to me: 'What are you suggesting?' I tabled a series of proposals today. “What do you suggest? Shall we strengthen public health? Slowly, slowly, the eggs!" Well, yes, to strengthen public health we propose, to hire no nurses we propose, to strengthen local health units and not close them we propose, to suspend the merger plans for hospitals with private individuals, that is what we are proposing. What they do all over the world, that's what we suggest. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Primary health care is a crucial size for dealing with pandemic. We must go ahead with digitalisation programmes, so that there is a timely diagnosis from home, that is what we are proposing. Get doctors and nurses, that's what we suggest. How many times are we gonna tell you this? But, you told us, Mr. Mitsotakis, 'Where did you see that we stopped dealing with the pandemic? Where did you see it?’ I'll answer you where we saw it. We read the preliminary draft budget. We have 900 million less costs. You are reducing the extraordinary costs of dealing with the pandemic by 900 million in 2022, this money that could possibly go for tracking programmes, to boost vaccination, to boost primary care. You reduce them and of course cut them - this is another story - and all the support measures for the economy. That is where we saw it, when you decided to do these measures without the approval of the infectious and scientific community, in that you open the schools as you closed them, that they are currently stacked and you are not a nail. Now, while we're talking, it's this photo from the subway. There is no measure to dilute or rather thicken the routes. No measure you've taken, for you the pandemic is over. You are also taking no action on all the other major problems facing the country. I am referring to the last situations created by the floods, from weather phenomena which are not extreme. Who's to blame for all this? One whole weekend we heard the government throwing responsibility over the region. Mr. Patoulis blamed the opposition - well known to you, Mr. Mitsotakis, followed him - and the municipality blamed anyone else. Who's to blame? Is it God's fault? Will you at last take responsibility as a government for everything that happens in this country? The only one not to blame is you for everything! Since I referred to this, I would like to say that Mr Lekkas, the President of the OSCE, has come out and referred to two things of interest. Firstly, he told us that we had little extreme weather. It wasn't extreme, it was intense, but not extreme. Secondly, he told us that in two and a half months in Cyprus, anti-military works were carried out on fires, while in Evia nothing has been done. I put it in the Minutes, if you don't believe me for that, too. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] I wanted to ask you, Mr Mitsotakis: Really, we have seen you all the time in a series of lengths and backs in the country, whether in tours or in private moments - your right - but not in a photograph we have seen you from Evia, from the burnt people there, listen to them, tell them, tell them their pain, beat their back even if you have nothing to suggest to them to do. You are absent, hide, believe you will be glorified by hiding, as happened in the first phase of the pandemic. Unfortunately for the country, however, we are facing a sad reality and we will be here to strongly criticise, that is our role, but above all to highlight the truth. We are telling the citizens who are listening to us today: we know you have no hope in this government. But you, all together, take the responsibility that a irresponsible Prime Minister does not assume, save whatever is saved, so that we can rebuild our country on solid foundations, rebuild the health system, see prospects and hope. And that means vaccination. Inoculate, watch out, wear masks, do not accept the logic of relaxation that breathes an irresponsible government, because our life counts above all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u15	The meeting ends with the denunciation of the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u16	I shall begin with, Mr Tsipras, with the most famous 12% of the vaccinated people who are unfortunately treated in intensive care units today. It's the main argument of the anti-invasives. I guess you know that well. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The main argument of the anti-infectives is "why do we go do the vaccine, since the vaccinated are ill?" You may not know that. And you come here today to the House and repeat exactly that argument. The answer, Mrs Gerovas, is that they are ill much less probable than the vaccinated. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So our basic argument that the vaccine saves lives, protects us from thirteen to twenty times more than getting seriously sick, coming and reversing it by saying that the vaccinated ones should also be careful. The possibility of someone getting vaccinated seriously, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Xanthi, I imagine you'll agree with what I'm about to tell you is about the same chance as the seasonal flu. Isn't that right? In seasonal flu, I don't remember closing down the whole country, nor having restrictions on who can get into the stores, none of this applies. I would therefore ask you very much, Mr Tsipras, next time at least not to use this argument unless, as the measurements show, you want to increase the percentages of prime ministership to the invaders, where I see that you are first and very different from the second one. And this might in itself show how society perceives the political speech of political leaders. So I will repeat what the government's position is. I will do so very clearly. We are five units below the European average in vaccination. We are nineteen - twenty in the European Union. We are not satisfied with this performance. We need to improve and we still have a chance to increase the rate of vaccination. We will go along with all the measures we have at our disposal to convince the citizens that this is the right strategy. We will do so through systematic information from the government and using experts who may now have greater persuasiveness to those who still hesitate to be vaccinated and going to local communities and discussing with local bodies to see what peculiarities we might have in areas such as northern Greece. All that you say we do, Mr. Tsipras, and I wish you had your side and your executives also get out of this, to do campaigns, too, beyond the very methodical campaigns in favour of the vaccination that HAY is doing. The truth is, I hadn't noticed them, but to say it, I imagine your party paper will have done it. So let us also convince those who are invasive that they must be vaccinated. The catalytic argument, however, remains one and that is why the accuracy of the figures cannot be called into question, so I insist so much on 88%. It was 90% two weeks ago, it's a bit down. But that's about the percentages. If you are not vaccinated, you are seriously at risk of ending up in an intensive care unit and possibly losing your life. That's not just us, it's all the experts who say it. It must be repeated with very great systematicity. But from one point to the next, you know, Mr Tsipras, I do not have the opportunity to force all Greeks to be vaccinated and each one to be measured - yes - with the consequences of his individual choice. They chose six and a half million of our fellow citizens to be vaccinated. It was the right choice. They choose millions of our fellow citizens not to be vaccinated. We must protect them by not giving them access to places such as closed entertainment, closed restaurants that we know there is increased transmission. We don't do it to punish them. We're doing this to protect them. The health system has adequate beds to enable patients to care for who may need increased care. But I will repeat it and want to be absolutely clear here. We are in no way going to turn the health system into a single thematic health system COVID, as we did not only, all the countries during the drama 2020. We will not do this because the same rights in quality care have them both for the cancer patient and the patient who may now need an intensive care unit, because he is suffering from a chronic respiratory complex or the young person who can be involved in a car accident and needs an intensive care unit so that we can treat him at that time. They should therefore all know what the real potential of the national health system is. And you can't finally come here and question the real facts, that - yes - we doubled the intensive care units within a short time. You have given us a health system which has had major deficiencies in this area and we have rushed to add, using all the means available to us, units and intensive care beds so that we can reach the European average, if anything. Take a walk to our big hospitals. See the new wings with new beds and new intensive treatments. Isn't that what happened in the middle of COVID? Is that a lie? Is she a propaganda government? Are the purchased instruments that come and highlight this reality or are they true? The truth is that the intensive treatment units added during COVID are a reserve for the national health system. They'll stay after the COVID. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I do not share responsibility here. And the previous governments before you were unable to deal with this problem. And surely, COVID was an opportunity for a very large mobilisation, which might normally not have been possible to launch this whole project at this speed. But we can't come here and tidy up all this effort. You referred again to the question of schools. What do you have to tell us about schools? Schools opened exemplaryly. We used the self-tests first. Kids are absolutely disciplined. A great deal of thanks to the children, their families, the teachers for complying entirely with the experts' suggestions, and today we have fewer cases in these ages than we had in August and the schools are open, the universities are open and our students are back. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Not to say that's a positive development? What do we want? Should universities be closed? They're open by rules. The focus is open by rules. In order to be able to enter a closed store and have fun, as you want to have fun, you have to be vaccinated. And if there are shops - which certainly exist individually - that do not comply with the law, they will be fined and the fine will be strict. And apparently some people can get away. But tell us, do you disagree about whether this is ultimately the right policy at first? We believe that at the moment we are communicating with the citizens very honestly and very clearly, explaining what they should do and what they should not do. The mask is still necessary. We never said, 'Stand out the masks'. And I must tell you that, unlike other European countries, the degree of compliance with the use of the mask in Greece is much greater. Go see what's going on in the United Kingdom. No check, no mask, no question anywhere. That means leaving everything free. We didn't let it all go. We put in a frame. Did the experts point us out in this context? Sure. The experts who disagree today, what would they want to do? If you think this framework is loose, are you suggesting Lockdown? If you think this framework is strict, do you think there should be no check in a restaurant to get someone to eat or have fun? Tell us: Or on one side you'll be bailing or on the other. But you cannot criticise the government's policy without telling us what your opinion is after all. You want more stringent measures, yes or no? Or do you want more release? We have chosen the average route, and we believe that the average road is a road that is appropriate, a road that rewards the six and a half million of our fellow citizens who have chosen to do the right thing. It protects the inconveniences, but at the same time - yes - it puts everyone before their responsibilities. Like I told you, I can't force anyone to be vaccinated. Mandatory vaccinations have reached the limits of the two categories we have imposed on them. We are not going to impose any more mandatory vaccinations. I believe that these two categories are well-intentioned, because we have increased the rate of vaccination and, at any rate, it is unthinkable at the moment that there may be sanitary workers who wish to offer their services to the national health system and be inconsistent. They won't. They will be suspended after they choose this policy, until at least the pandemic passes. And there we were very clear and very honest. Mr. Tsipras, please don't come back and talk about excessive mortality again, using the evidence of the registry. It shows - I am sorry to say - tragic ignorance of an extremely complex issue. Overreacting mortality is not a simple case. We can't see the office boards. Then I will also tell you that from 2016 to 2017, which increased by six thousand, it is your fault that you increased them and what happened between 2016 and 2017. But are these serious things? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There are very detailed analyses of the issues of excessive mortality, comparative. They all show that for 2020 at least - in 2021 we still have no data - the country is in the five best countries on the issues of excessive mortality, much better than Sweden. You may not know these things and come here with a registration board and say: "Look how many more people died." That's not serious. It's not serious. They can't be heard by the Chief of Officer Counterfeiting so irresponsible arguments! Why, disproved, Mr. Xanthi, the investigation into excessive mortality? Are you confusing her?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u17	Of course I'm disgusting her. There's research data...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u18	There is research data for 2020, which proves at a comparative level exactly what...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u19	It's published.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u20	Where are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u21	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u22	Where is he? Why don't you bring them to testify? Is that it? Where is he? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Where is he? Are these the research data? The registry office? That's not serious. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, I should like to conclude by making a brief reference to the issues of the status quo which the government has launched in the media, because it has chosen to fund, in practical terms, all the means of the country to support the vaccination campaign. You should be aware that if the media actually speaks about freedom of expression, the National Broadcasting Council has the ability to intervene and has imposed fines, mainly on regional channels, which, yes, may have been financed - because everyone has - but a fine has been imposed on cases that have escaped from the context of freedom of expression and have obviously put forward false positions by the anti-infectionists. So you come to say that we support with state funding uninvasively, because we have given advertising to all the media in the country, let me say that this argument does not stand up to serious criticism. I did not intend, Mr Tsipras, to speak about the committee of inquiry, which you intend to set up. And I imagine there will be no one in this Chamber who, firstly, disagrees that putting forward a proposal for a committee of inquiry was a proposal from the New Democracy, which was incorporated into the Constitution. We give - and that is right - the right to minority vote, if it can and find the hundred and twenty Members, to set up a committee of inquiry to check the facts of the government. I imagine, however, that when the subject of the debate is the so-called "way" with which the government manipulates polling companies, no one would object to this investigation starting from 2015 to 2021. You don't disagree, I guess. Isn't that right? Do you disagree? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If I'm judging by your node, you agree with this proposal. I therefore propose that this debate should in some way not be ideologically charged, that we agree in this Chamber - and my proposal is addressed to the other parties in anti-population - in a very neutral wording, without any suggestion... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] ..................................................................................................................................................................... - Half a minute, no implied - which says that state funding and the possible manipulation of polls from 2015 to 2021 should be investigated, so that it does not appear that the proposal photographs them or others. That means doing a serious job and looking. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] There, Mr Tsipras, as you can see, we will look for everything. Because, as far as I know, there have been some three hundred polls in the country since at least I was elected Chief of Police in 2016. All polling companies a little - very much have fallen within the prediction of the election result of both the European elections and the national elections. There was an exception here. 'DOCUMENTO': '2.3%. Fight starts, you told us then! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The so-called objective polls that were made at the time, so that you can change the image of public opinion! We'll look for them, too, I guess. You have no objection. Isn't that right? Well, let's see what these populist companies were that showed up out of nowhere and disappeared the next day, which projected an image that was disguised by reality itself. So when you come and question the results of the polls, Mr Tsipras, it's like you're confronting reality itself. It is not your fault that the polls you lost with eight and ten units of election. This is what the Greek people have chosen! That's what polls showed. That's what happened after all. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I therefore believe that there will be no disagreement in this Chamber on setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate these issues as a whole, as I have told you, with a reasoning which must not have a peak on either SYRIZA nor, obviously, on the New Democracy, to investigate together what has happened in this area. I imagine you'll agree, and when it's time to have this conversation, we'll all be able to talk together and I have to say it's gonna be a conquest - right? - for the parliamentary system, to come and say: 'Come on, we are looking for the periods for the governance of the SYRIZA and the period for the New Democracy'. I'm closing down, repeating what I told you in my prototype. Politics, Mr Tsipras, with lies, with statistics that are processed, to present a false picture of reality, is a policy dangerous to the country. We've paid too much for a decade's time lies and delusions. At some point, I think, we all have an obligation to grow up and get away from these logics. Look, if you think you should constantly invest in destruction, if you have to invest constantly in tension, if you think it makes you feel good to say 'no' to everything, from the relief measures of citizens to the great diplomatic success of the Greek agreement, continue to do so. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's not good for you. I think everyone in this room knows it somewhere. If you ask me, it doesn't hurt me politically. It's probably a good thing for me, but unfortunately it's not the Opposition that deserves the country as a whole. At some point in this Chamber we have to decide which country we want. Do we want a country that is serious, European, mature, which will in a difficult way show itself a good one, with a political dialogue that we can disagree with civilised ones, without resorting to the murder of characters, or do we want a country that remains locked up in conflict-based toxicity, with parties that are engaged in lies and are constantly investing in social tension? As Prime Minister of this country, I will do everything I can to leave this toxicity and these practices on the margin! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I call on you to do the same as a minimum act of fundamental political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the current question to the Prime Minister has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S1-commons.u24	With the consent of the House at 12.15 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 18 October 2021 at 15.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a topical and urgent debate.
