ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 17-6-2021 authorisation, PMST's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Thursday, June 17, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: "Reforming the institutional framework of the Committee on Professional Sports, provisions for harmonisation with a holistic FIFA-UEFA study on football and the Greek Football Federation, restructuring of professional categories of football, operating support of a National Anti-Doping Agency, reforming an institutional framework for coaches and other amendments to sport legislation".]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the questions to be discussed. At the same time, it shall inform the Minister of Culture and Sport that the following topical questions will not be discussed: Mr Kegeroglou's number 869/14-6-2021 by Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Kegeroglou's number 853-7-6-2021 by Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis's number 6174/21-2021 by Mr. Also, the following topical questions will not be discussed because of the blockade by the Members: The number 833/31-5-2021 by Mrs Maria Apache to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, the number 836/3-6-2021 by the same colleague, Mrs Apatzidis from Mer 25 to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, and the number 5912/124-2021 by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou, Minister for the Environment and Energy. After that, we proceed to the ninth with number 840/4-2021 topical question by the Member of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: 'Is the government adhering to the port and exceptionally important public property departments of Heraklion'? The Minister present will answer Mr. Ioannis Plakkatakis. Here, Mr Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Minister, for the Venetian port of Heraklion, I will not ask you. Your commitment was clear in Heraklion. It would be advisable to confirm this very commitment. During your visit to Heraklion last April you pointed out that the concession of the port of Heraklion means essentially long-term rental for certain investments, a specific section and revenue for the state budget, while in respect of the land area of linopera and port shelters in Arvi, Keratokabo and Leda you claimed that it is possible not to be included in the concession procedure. However, your words are not clear after the publication of a call for expressions of interest for the concession of at least 67% of the "Horizon Port Authority S.A." which is responsible for the management and operation of the above, as they are almost all included in the subject of the competitive procedure. You know very well, Minister, that specifically fishing shelters contribute, but they also create expectations of growth for the benefit of local communities. It's an estate over local society and municipal authorities. Because, Minister, I think we should be practical, not of the theory, nor of the sterile opposition that leads nowhere, simply and understandably, I will convey to you the anguish of the society of Crete and, of course, the opposition of all of us to any concessions - the sale of fishing grounds for Arbes, Keratokabu, Leda, Linopera and, of course, the Venetian port. I would therefore like you to reply frankly - and I should like you to do so in the society of Crete - if it is your intention to exclude the concession agreement from the land area of the port of Linopera, the port shelters in Arbes, Keratokabo and Leda. Mr Minister, we can also begin with the debate that we had yesterday and the President-in-Office did not have a second word on these matters. I believe that the next time for the port of Heraklion will be an essential debate for all of us, a debate we need to have for the sake of local communities, for the sake of our country. And you, not as Minister, but as a Cretan, I think you agree. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u4	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague for his opportunity to address the National Representation on an extremely important matter which concerns our country for the sake of geopolitical and economic reasons, but also for the local communities and economies of the peripheral ports, which have already been promoted, and which are expected to take place in the next few years, the procedures for their exploitation. Indeed, my colleague - and I have said so on many occasions in public - the exploitation, concession of the regional ports of the country in no way means selling, and much more selling. It means long-term lease for specific investments, price and specific revenues for the state budget. It means many important jobs, it means developing local societies, it means strengthening the position of each port separately on the global freight map. Developments fully deserve the strategic choice of our government. This is demonstrated by the very large participation of large and strong external and domestic investment groups in the tender procedures, which are already under way in the ports of Alexandroupolis, Kavala and Igoumenitsa, despite the conditions of uncertainty caused by the pandemic worldwide. The very successful development model will also be followed in the case of the Port Authority of Heraklion, obviously taking into account the specificities of the city of Heraklion, the wider Regional Unit of Heraklion, in order to have a contractor within 2022, to proceed with the concession, substantially reforming the image of the port and the whole of the local society. All of this - and I would like to make it quite clear - will be done in conditions where it is not at stake - and I repeat, no job is at stake. On the contrary. Strengthening the development potential of the port of Heraklion will create new jobs and employment. In the development of the port of Heraklion, the geostrategic and geopolitical role of the port of Heraklion is taken into account very seriously since it combines many important maritime activities that can be exploited by every port, such as coastline, freight station, maritime tourism and homeport port for cruise. Now to the specific questions you have asked me, Mr Colleague, I want to be clear and unequivocal. The Government intends to elect the port footprint and to redefine the concession area so that it does not include areas not required in the main commercial operation of the port. So I'm starting - and I said it on my last visit to Heraklion...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u6	What do you mean, you're starting now? Because time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u7	I answer the questions because I had to say a few things before, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u8	All right, come in. I'm just reminding you that we have twenty-two questions and it's Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u9	I answer specifically. You raised the issue for the Venetian port. Once again, I state clearly that the Venetian port as a proclaimed archaeological site will be excluded from the concession procedure. Likewise, the port of Linopera, as well as the three fishing shelters in Arvi, Keratokabos and Loutras will be excluded from the procedure. Both of these will be done during the second phase of the procedure, which will also be decisive. Now, for the Linopurans, but also for the three fishing shelters, what we are considering alternatively is to be integrated into the more general planning of the Ministry of Shipping. You realise that positive effects will be created since the opening of the competitive process of the port of Heraklion, which will affect the wider area. To conclude, Mr President - and I thank you very much - what I have to say is that our firm aim is to upgrade the position and role of the port of Heraklion, encourage sustainability, development and investment in the port of Heraklion, and I am sure that the use of the port of Heraklion will also justify the government's strategic choice, open up new roads to both the city and the inhabitants, launch new prospects for our country and of course create a new investment environment for the overall development of Crete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I agree with the Minister's reply when he expressly states that the Venetian port is excluded - and this has also been said in Heraklion - and once he assures us that the fishing grounds of Arbes, Keratokampos, Lenta and the port of Linoprats are excluded. I want to thank the Minister for understanding. I don't have to say anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vardakis, for the short-livedness. Minister, do you want the floor? Oh, no. Thank you both. We move on with the third under No 866/14-6-2021 top-level question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki, on the subject: "The immediate simulation of the four thousand workers with an OAED programme in the public health system". Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, will always reply. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, despite the fact that we are still in critical pandemic conditions, the clear shortages in the public health system remain. The law has not been met for the immediate permanentisation of four thousand workers from a hundred different health and administrative specialities, other than doctors, all educational grades and branches. We're talking about scientific, nursing, paramedic, paramedics, pharmacists, rescuers, managers, technicians, drivers, traumatists and go saying. They have been recruited since the beginning of 2017 with the specific programme of the OAED with supervision over the whole range of public health structures: university, general hospitals, central service of the Ministry of Health, health centres, ICES units, regional and multivalent medical establishments, EOPY, OKANA, KETHES, EAEC and elsewhere. These workers are working with constantly renewed fixed-term contracts. For the last four years, however, the fourth successive yearly renewal of their contracts has already been approved without any interruption with the OAS's work reintegration and full employment programme on the basis of the public invitations made. They cover these people permanent and permanent needs and are employed in permanent posts, managing successfully whole sections, clinics and addresses in the public health sector. So far the current and previous SYRIZA government have held them in hostage. Refusal to hire permanent health and administrative staff. You are implementing a fixed mandate from the European Union, on the basis of which the planned operation of public units with private economic criteria requires the perpetuation of staff shortages and the expansion of flexible labour relations. So we ask you, Minister, what measures the government intends to take so that they are immediately permanently integrated into and integrated into the staff of the health establishments that these four thousand employees have been employed since 2017 with the specific OAED programme, as we said, and the supervision of the OAED and are employed by the various bodies in the public health sector and secondly, so that the time spent from their recruitment to their permanent recognition of their professional graduation, wage and insurance rights is fully recognized. Finally, Mr President, I am presenting in the Minutes of this House this memorandum of four thousand workers that their Steering Committee gave to the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of our Party in December 2020 at their meeting. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Synthraki, it is truly countless times that I have spoken about the issue of the four thousand workers benefiting from the OAS programme in the National Health System. The situation is clear, as is the government's intentions. These workers, on the one hand, are necessary for the smooth functioning of the system and, on the other, for them, like all workers in the national health system, have worked to keep the system up and to stop pandemic and we recognise that. For my part and on the part of the Ministry of Health, I would remind you that only three months after taking up our duties at the Ministry of Health, in October 2019, we proceeded with concrete actions. Because I remind you that the programme was over and we inherited this situation. Because we needed the workers in the National Health System, the beneficiaries of the OAED programme, we extended the programme in order to stay in the system. I am sure these extensions are not permanent solutions. We are working on these permanent solutions, and we have said so many times, and we repeat it, that permanent solutions are needed by the National Health System. And, of course, it is not possible to correct all the shortcomings and distortions of the past within a short period of time. But you should know - I have said it many times and I have told the workers themselves - we are not going to promise anything that we will not be able to implement in full. And that's why we're very close. Because this is a particular category of workers in the health system and it is a fact, of course, that you cannot - you are speaking safely of course, but you are also aware of the procedures in the public sector - to permanently take all the contractors to the national health system on one day. It needs planning and plan, and that's what we're doing. In fact, recently, I would remind you that the Prime Minister himself made a commitment to the permanentisation of nurses, kept his commitment and in the near future, early in autumn, in September, we proceed to publish two notices, four thousand posts of nurses - a commitment that we are doing so - and nine hundred ten posts of other staff, paramedical and various branches and categories. Let me also remind you of the two and a half thousand permanent positions of medical staff, which in two years has been implemented by the New Democracy Government. I would also like to point out that four thousand beneficiaries of the OAED programme are not four thousand, but they are about three thousand and something, because the rest of them, in competitions with the OAED or other notices, have joined the health system in permanent positions. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. In any case, our political will is clear. We want reinforcement of the National Health System in personnel. The National Health System - we are the first to say it - has shortcomings, which come from the past, and these shortcomings have been achieved in the pandemic, with the subsidiary staff, who have once again scheduled two thousand recruitments of ancillary personnel, but we have exceeded ten thousand recruitments during the pandemic period. We need planning and concrete plans so that we can provide permanent solutions to the health system. We are therefore considering solutions and ways in which these solutions will be given. Time is needed and you can be sure that we are above the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u17	Minister, I have the impression that you are making an attempt to mislead and you know, misleading is a very basic element of populism, which I know does not characterize you. But in any case, when you say that you inherited this situation, that extensions are not a lasting solution, and that we cannot, at the same time, perpetuate from day to day, eh, forgive me very much! I mean, these three lines have five hundred thousand contradictions inside. It's full of contradictions. And now, you've been in government power for two years. We're under sanitary warfare conditions. If you now, which is necessary, do not hire this staff in permanent jobs, when will you hire it, then when will it end? Obviously, the problems do not end, because much has been accumulated in the health sector. But if you do not now and express this analgesia to the thousands of workers with flexible employment relationships, imagine what has to be done in the future. For four and a half years these workers have been experiencing an incomprehensible situation, a mockery by both governments, not just by you. You did inherit it, but that is the case, one receives burnt land from the other, that we are now living for decades. But these workers, Minister, have given their best self, you have said so, too, a titanic struggle, defying risks to defend our people's health, exposed to biological, chemical, physical risk factors, risking their lives, putting their families at risk. All of this, in our view, but not just because of these issues, is - if you like - the most remarkable criteria for their permanentity. They're all extremely necessary in the public health system. What does it mean to say that you hired two and a half thousand and in September four thousand notices? You can tell us how many people have withdrawn from the public health system, how many pensions are from the health system, how many are the real needs in the public health system, to sit down, to see plus what is needed. Apparently there's a lot more of them. The pandemic continues, Minister, and smells of death. It still smells like death. Don't make the Greek people rest, that we left the pandemic. At the same time, there are unresolved problems and accumulated problems. Instead of meeting all needs, you choose to shut holes on the one hand and open more on the other and have found this rope with contractors, contractors, assistants and go by saying. They are more than thirty thousand vacancies in the public health system based on organograms, the unupdated ones, because, as I told you, if we update them, you will see that the needs are much more. So stop upsetting an entire society, the family - personal planning of all these people, all of these workers. In fact, it is enthusiastic that this whole package of flexible labour relations should be called the European Union's best practices. I'm so sorry. Best practices here! So we urge you also to stop invoking unconstitutionality. You did not say this here, but it is the permanent inclination of your government and yours and the previous one, the issue of unconstitutionalism, that it is unconstitutional to permanentize them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u18	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u19	You did not say so now, but it is a permanent argument on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u20	It's never been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u21	I am very clear about what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u22	Close, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u23	I didn't charge you for that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u24	The government didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u25	No, you say so, but in any case, when we proposed to you in the Constitutional Review, in order to remove from Article 103 the question of banning the permanentisation and conversion of fixed-term contracts into indefinite contracts, you did not accept it either by you or by SYRIZA or by the Change Movement, by any other party. So again, we insist. Give it a chance to those people who gave their best. We will give our best self in the fight so that these people really can be justified. I am tabling, in the Minutes, the amendment we tabled in December 2020 for the immediate simulation of these workers and we are committed to re-introducing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor. And since we are talking about strengthening the ESS, because they ask many doctors, if you have decided or otherwise decided, the six-month extension given to those who would have left with pension in 2020, will be renewed by the end of the year or is it over? You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthyriakis, I find it inappropriate that we mislead the beneficiaries of the programme. You do this with what you say, because nothing has been said from the government and from me personally about unconstitutionalism and so on. It is not populism to say - you said it yourself later - that we have received this. If we didn't want them, we wouldn't hold them. First of all, we say that they need the National Health System and of course there are shortcomings that need to be addressed. You know very well and you know that procedures are not easy. Specific laws must be observed in order to plan, as I have said, and a plan to be able to fill in the gaps that the National Health System has. And I repeat that you have presented a situation and give the impression that these people cannot participate in notices that take place in the National Health System. I said that there are no more four thousand of them because several of them have been included in the National Health System through notices. And I repeat once again that we are not going to promise or announce something that we are not sure is right and correct. First of all, we said that all workers - we do not know, we do not separate anyone - from the National Health System were first backed up in order to have the results we have today. Mr President, I should like to answer your question. There will be a legislative initiative on the part of the Government concerning specific specialities which can remain in the National Health System. Specific specialities, however, related to the pandemic and specific hospital needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u28	Very good. The fourth question under number 870/14-6-2021 will be discussed in the fourth question of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Successful blood donation based on the principle of non-discrimination". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a few days ago I gave blood to a volunteer blood donation that took place at Ilio Town Hall in West Athens. I would like to say that despite the efforts of the Atticon hospital workers, the process was embarrassing. I was asked to sign an application that stated that it is forbidden to donate blood for anyone who has even a homosexual relationship since 1977. In Greece today, not only is it forbidden to give blood to anyone who has had a homosexual relationship since 1977, but all citizens must sign it to give blood. I do not think I need to describe how embarrassing this is for volunteer donors and for our society. The AIDS virus is detected in the blood in a week to ten days. A PCR test is performed for hepatitis B, hepatitis C, HIV, HTLV and syphilis in all blood bottles. None of the other countries have such legislation. I want to be clear. In England, three months of abstention are demanded without any division of sexual preference. In Denmark four months and when there is a permanent relationship to homosexuals there is no restriction. In France, a year of sex abstention for homosexual men, four months if they are in a stable relationship. In Canada one year and it is now falling. In Spain, Portugal, Italy, there is a questionnaire, regardless of sex preference, which sees sexual behaviour and whether it is exposed to the risk of AIDS, the comparable person regardless of sexual preference. The same for Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Israel, Mexico, Peru, South Africa. Discrimination has also been abolished in Hungary by Mr Orban from their constitutional court, as well as in Brazil. I'm calling for self-evident. To change this questionnaire of shame and apologise to the citizens who have accepted the cost of discrimination, but have had to sign these discrimination so long. The questionnaire of shame really has to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u30	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I thank you for the question, Mr Arseni, firstly because you are giving me the opportunity to pay tribute to the very important work carried out by the National Centre for Hemodism, which has competence for the responsibility and organisation and development and promotion of the National Blood System and which, of course, ensures the safety of blood and its constituents in order to prevent the transmission of diseases and to prevent extremely negative consequences for patients and the health system. That is why I would like to point out in advance that the organisation of the blood donor system and the criteria for the selection and exclusion of donors are not offered to promote the demands of different groups of people. You come here today with the question and you tell us that you have gone to blood. We know that. In fact, Mr President, you, as Minister for Health, have incorporated a European directive into the national legislation on this matter. In any case, what the state has to do is to ensure the patient's right to safe blood first and all else comes. There is certainly no discriminating, and that is why there is also a treatment on our part in order to amend the form in question. By incorporating European legislation, therefore, the current legislation provides for a definitive exclusion from the donation of individuals whose - according to the directive - sexual behaviour implies a high risk of transmission of infectious diseases that can be transmitted through blood and such high-risk behaviour is specified in the form 'historic donor', which is completed before blood donation. This particular reference, I want to make it clear, is not intended to process personal data on the sexual preferences of candidate donors, but is a recommendation for self-exclusion and is based on EGE data from the epidemiological surveillance of HIV infection in our country, especially for people first diagnosed. I repeat, the aim is to provide safe blood to those in need. In the same direction, it is pointed out that the Council of Europe in a resolution adopted by all the Member States confirms that it is not possible to determine the exact risk of exposure of a donor to a disease transmitted by transfusion, taking into account individual sexual practices and finding that men who have sexual intercourse with men and those who have sex are exposed to a high risk of insulting and retransmission of transfusion-transmission diseases. There are also judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, judging the interpretation of the directive, which they considered that the criterion of permanent exclusion from blood donation, which relates to the sexual behaviour of the donor, covers the case where, in view of the situation in a Member State, it provides for a definitive contraception for blood donation in respect of sexual preferences. In order to answer your question clearly and explicitly, Mr Arsenis, the specific exclusion you refer to does not, in the first instance, constitute a discrimination and a violation of the dignity of those who are excluded. This does not mean, however, that the conditions for an epidemiological and scientific review of our country's strategy are not met in this regard. And I want to assure you of the following. Indeed, the exclusion that applies to having even a homosexual relationship since 1997 has been considered obsolete and is acceptable to everyone that it should be replaced. Commonly accepted, however, is also that its replacement is a complex process in which many parameters need to be taken into account, particularly in relation to the safety of the patient, and on these axes the government is moving in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the National Centre for Blood and We are assessing the data and we will move in this direction. Our goal is to find other more peculiar terms...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u32	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u33	...to be used to identify behaviours involving a risk of transmission of infectious diseases and to assess the level of risk presented by each donor personally due to its sexual behaviour, regardless of sex and sexual orientation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u34	However, Minister, because I was one of the founding members of the National AIDS Commission, this group which at the time - perhaps not unfairly - was considered a high risk group, because of self-protection measures taken today - I think that it is not considered a high risk group. They are other groups, irrelevant to sexual determination, which may be more high risk. So I think you were right to say this, but you have to go ahead with reviewing this. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I was a little worried about your speech. I shall read that you have started blood donation is not available for the promotion of claims from different groups of social groups. Is this your first thought in the question I asked about whether it should be abolished? What I have been called to sign reads: "WITH: WHICH DO NOT TAKE APAMA" and applies to anyone who has a homosexual relationship, that is, a woman and a man, since 1977. That's not what's darkening. Is this your reasonable request, too, to be seen as a 'promise of claims of different social groups'? We urge you to withdraw this phrase. Do we have the greatest blood shortage in our history, and right now we say no to people without any scientific criteria? To people who want to offer us no, why didn't we know what they were doing in 1977? Which country do we live in? The PCR test detects it after ten days. Add a month or two and put mainly individuals, regardless of sexual preference, who have been in contact without prophylaxis at that particular time with a new person, which is based on science. You have, however, referred to the fact that the procedure for amending the document has begun. Because the previous government had said something like that, we would like to know exactly when. Because in '18 there was a corresponding announcement and it never happened. We want to know when, Minister. When this disgrace will stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u36	But I think, Mr Arsenis, that you did a little wrong for the Minister. You isolated one or two phrases while you explained them. Of course, it's none of my business. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u37	Mr Arsenis, I will start at the end of the 'when'. Let me remind you that you and your party officials have also been in progressive centre-left governments in the past few years in Greece and you have not solved the issue. It's not new. And we come here today and tell you that we recognize it and we will resolve it and we will certainly have to use a more utility term. And in any case, priority for us is to give safe blood to every patient. You have referred to what is happening in other countries. But, always, the criterion is the scientific and epidemiological data that is valid in one country. I accept that it may have happened sooner, but I told you it was right, the term must be changed and it will change. And I want to be clear, because you have indeed isolated one phrase from me. The measures taken by the country to ensure the safety of transfused blood are certainly not aimed at any kind of discrimination. And - I will repeat - developments in other countries cannot be the only criterion for any changes. Because I said the epidemiological situation differs from country to country. Therefore, any changes to our country's strategy should come after an assessment of the risk that exists in our country so that the safety of transfused blood is not jeopardised. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u38	We shall now proceed to the fourth question. It is SYRIZA's Congressman Xanthi's Question No 843/4-6-2021 - Progressive Alliance Mr. Zabek Hussein to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The General Hospital of Xanthi on the brink of collapse". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all I am pleased to see you because we have had a long time to hear from your ministry. For example, we have tabled about five questions during the pandemic, and we have not received any answers. That is why we have come back with a timely question about the hospital in Xanthi that has now reached the unprecedented. First of all, to describe the dissolution situation in the hospital. The first and most serious problem is the closure of our hospital's intensive care facility due to a lack of intensifier. The hospital's ID has ceased to function despite having seven beds. In other words, it has been unable to function since the beginning of the year. Also, shortages in medical staff exist in almost all hospital clinics. Indicatively, we have shortcomings in the anesthesiological department. In particular, there are two anestheticists from the seven that are needed. And as you can see, the lack of anesthesiologist beyond the inability to perform surgery, which, without excessive waiting for up to three years, creates a serious problem in dealing with emergencies as well. A similar situation exists in the pathological clinic, in the artificial kidney unit, in the neurological department, while there is no ORL, nor a gastroenter. Overall, today, the General Hospital of Xanthi operates with 60% of its staff. And half of them are now in attendance. We must also say the sacrifice shown by the staff of the General Hospital of Xanthi over the previous period in dealing with the pandemic. Especially did our county suffer from the first and second waves very severely. Unfortunately, however, their contribution has been appreciated by the local society, but not on the part of the government, which, instead of supporting public health, leads the hospital to the brink of collapse. So it seems slowly, that our hospital is turning into a health center. Perhaps that's the government's policy. We also heard the Prime Minister at the health conference say about the reform of the ESS through a partnership with the private sector. There is also no need for other regional hospitals. And we have the hospitals Alexandroupolis, Kavala and the private law hospital of Komotini. So this design does not fit the hospitals of Xanthi and Dramas. So, Minister, I ask you questions: tell us in detail, with numbers, how many recruitments and what specialities have been made at the General Hospital of Xanthi since the beginning of the pandemic. To how many recruitments and what specialties you intend to go ahead in order to solve the operational problem facing the General Hospital of Xanthi. Do you think under these circumstances the hospital can cope with any fourth wave of pandemic? And finally what moves do you intend to take in order to reopen the intensive care unit of the General Hospital of Xanthi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u40	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Zabeck, it's easy to criticize the chairs of counter-population. And all it costs you is time. Criticism - this is how democracy works - is welcome and necessary. But there must be logic, realism and truth. In this case, this is not the case because your criticism is not intended to highlight the problems that really exist and we inherited from your own government and there were from all the governments over the years. Why you could come and tell us "we did this in the five years of governance in Xanthi, you do less" - that we did more and I will come back - and see who wants to support the Xanthi Hospital. Because there are nice conspiracy theories that we want to turn it into a health center, that we want to privatise the health system and all these imaginary scenarios that you are proving during the pandemic. It is a pandemic that hit the region of northern Greece very much and certainly hit the Regional Unity of Xanthi. We know the fierceness of the wave. And first of all, we are grateful to the staff not only for the Xanthi Hospital, but for the whole health system, which has given the brave battle in order to have the results we have. And we are proud that the public health system, as much as it bothers you, has supported it in the pandemic period, we support it and we will continue to support it, and it has brought these excellent results. You talked about recruitment at the Xanthi Hospital and subsecution. There's a sub-secretary, but they've been recruited. And, of course, the movement during the pandemic period and in the first half of 2021 shows that the hospital served both COVID and non COVID incidents. And now, of course, it also has a vaccination line so that the world can serve. All of this doesn't mean, of course, that the hospital operates unintentionally. I will first tell you that there are problems and shortcomings. Yeah, not all positions covered. Yeah, there's a hypotension. Yes, there are problems, especially in the intensive care unit, which we had to suspend for safety reasons. And, of course, there will be a total solution to serve the whole region. And there will also be a solution for the long waiting in surgery because they have indeed remained behind in relation to other areas due to the lack of anesthetics. Can I talk to you? It would be very easy for us to proclaim not four, but fourteen anesthetics, which we all know is perhaps the most lack of expertise in the country. And we would say, "Let us, we proclaim it, but look, they go out wild." So we need to see what other measures we need to take so that people can go to these areas and give appropriate incentives to serve the regional hospitals. We are well aware of this and we are working on it. It is clear, therefore, that the Ministry of Health and all the bodies, the health district, the hospital administration - in the middle of a pandemic - are making a great effort to ensure the smooth operation of the General Hospital of Xanthi and to strengthen it to staff. I can refer to the recruitments that have taken place. I will submit the information in the Minutes to be available to you, of course it is also in the 'DENMARK'. The problem, I repeat, is that the hospital is being subordinated to specific specialities, which are either completely absent or under-represented, not in any way due to indifference. I told you, the problems are in particular, we know them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u42	Subsequent to dentistry. Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I will answer, Minister, because you said what happened during the SYRIZA period with the Xanthi Hospital. Again when SYRIZA and the hospital administration from our government came to power, the hospital was in a difficult situation again at risk of closing a clinic. But what did we do? At this time about twenty doctors came to the hospital from our government. And even though we received a hospital with serious financial deficits, with a debt of about four and a half million, in 2017, the hospital reached the point to cover the outstanding debts and has no financial problem at the moment. Finally, the provision of a complex of magnetic resonance at the General Hospital of Xanthi was ensured by the expenditure of the Public Investment Programme of 2018. Needless to say, even this supply has been undisputedly frozen after almost two years of the previous administration's competition, while the time limits for using the budget are running. With regard to the issue of the ICM, in an update we had with Mr Kikilia in October 2020, he told us that because of the second wave of the pandemic, the beds of the ICM increased from five to seven, but now it seems that it doesn't matter, since it can't work a single bed in ICM. Also, the Minister and you didn't give us any numbers. He told us that 2020 was strengthened by the hospital with three specialists and also opened a pathologist's post without any interest. This is, therefore, the contribution of the Ministry of Health to the General Hospital of Xanthi that faces so many difficulties. Already since the first wave of coronary pandemic, the situation in our hospital is tragic. As you said, recruitment is almost zero, while many doctors leave or retire. The hospital, as I said before, has two anestheticists. One is retired, and if the positions are not covered, the surgery in Xanthi will be stopped. If this does not change, the shortcomings will continue to be covered by the other hospitals of neighbouring states, creating domino and suffocating pressures in the other hospitals, while individuals will not be able to stay in their prefecture. Meanwhile, the most failed administration of the general hospital was unable to withstand the management of the pandemic, even though it had as a weapon EUR 500,000 from donations to support the hospital. But even today when the situation is normalized, it leads the hospital to collapse, as it has so many shortcomings in staff and all it is interested in doing is SAD against doctors. I think they don't fit semimeters anymore. One way must be found so that the Xanthi Hospital can deal with this problem in the long term and not with temporary solutions. For example, if the government does not want Xanthi to stay without a hospital, it is necessary to join the General Hospital of Xanthi in the hospitals of the barren areas, in order for the medical staff to have additional motivation to come to Xanthi. Physicians don't come to a provincial hospital as long as the medical salary is fixed. You should also provide for a set of incentives, such as tax relief, a frontier allowance, a rental subsidy. There are solutions, my Minister. It needs to be done. In any case, the local society and the Municipality of Xanthi are available to support the effort to ensure the viability of our hospital. We therefore call on you to commit yourself to the reinforcement of staff, both numerically and in wage terms. After all, the brave increase in the financial resources of the system is now required to bring them into line with the European average of 7% of GDP. Of course, we must not forget the enormous contribution of subsidiary staff, whose permanentisation is the only way of recognising their contribution to this great adventure that our country is going through. All the time, Minister, at the initiative of the health staff of the hospital and the Medical Association of Xanthi, there have been mobilizations and assemblies in order to exert the greatest pressure to resolve the problems facing the hospital. As soon as the municipality's orders of the Municipality of Xanthi...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u44	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u45	A slight tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u46	I already gave it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. I'm hanging up. As soon as the municipality's orders of the Municipality of Xanthi stood in their resolution, which I will table in the Minutes, in favour of an effective rescue plan for the General Hospital of Xanthi. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Hussein Zambeck, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Faced with the efforts of local society, however, we see only denial on the part of both the Ministry and the administration of the hospital that makes the eyes wrong. So I ask you as Xanthiist: how many and what motives will you put in order to curb the collapse of the hospital? How will you make the Xanthi Hospital tempting medical staff to be eligible? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Do you intend to join the hospitals of the area...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u48	Don't ask another 10 questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u49	Yeah, I'm done. Thank you and we expect to hear if Xanthi really will continue to have a decent hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u50	Come on, Mr. Contozamani. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Zabeck, I will disagree with you, because the hospital has successfully fought the battle of the pandemic. Xanthi was held upright and the hospital met to the maximum extent the very high management requirements of the pandemic. In the years 2020 and 2021, with three notices, nineteen ERC doctor posts were opened, of which only six were covered and are expected to be covered by another four by the last notice completed. We had announced these positions as the Ministry of Health and - as I said before - there are specific shortcomings in specific qualifications. At the moment at the Hospital of Xanthi additionally offer their services to eleven subsidiary doctors and thirty two qualified doctors of various specialties and, of course, there are sixty-seven other auxiliary staff who were assisted by the Hospital of Xanthi during the pandemic period. I have said so, too, that you have said that the issue is to give appropriate incentives and we have said so many times that we are considering specific incentives, all the governments. I do not want to deny the effort of previous governments - they have motivated - but at the moment we need to go a little further. We have said concrete measures that we need to do, not only financially, the incentives that need to be given are scientific incentives - they are also a package of incentives, tax reliefs, such as those you have said, co-service with the husband - so that the new doctor we want to get into the National Health System really has the incentive to go to these remote areas. I would like to assure you that we have clearly captured the current situation. I told you that we will also announce in the next few days a plan, which has to do with the accelerating surgery that is on hold and we are in collaboration with the Greek Anesthetic Society, in order to see for Xanthi specifically, the issue of lack of anesthetics and is reviewed and evaluated, as I said, the current framework for barren specialities. So we will soon be able to announce a concrete package and assure you that under no circumstances will the Xanthi Hospital be degraded. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u52	We move on to the eleventh, with number 850/7-2021, a topical question from the Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas, to the Minister of Health, on "The problems of the psychiatric clinic of the Mytilini Hospital". Here, Ms. Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, before we arrived at the current time question on the multipathic issue of the psychiatric clinic of "BOSTANIOU" Mytilini Hospital, we had tabled a relevant question from 1 December 2020 in which we had not received an answer to this question, this protest letter in October 2020 had been preceded by the Pan-Sbian Association of Pensioners IKa that indicated general problems in public health structures in Lesvos, including the serious problems that were present in the psychiatric clinic and than we know you have a picture of the state of "Bostane" and especially the psychiatric clinic, as you visited the island in October 2020. And, of course, in addition to the promises that you reiterated on the visit, nothing else has been seen to improve the conditions. Not only did the conditions improve, but since then the situation has deteriorated in two directions. Firstly, on the issues of the staffing of the clinic, because in this period the term of one of the two psychiatrists, which had been posted to the psychiatric hospital for three months and is still today with only one psychiatrist, the director of the clinic, who, in fact, in about one year's time, is about to retire. And secondly, the remaining staff, of course, in relation to the increased needs of such a large island that is lifting up and hosting refugee population, are much less than what it really needs. There are fewer nurses, but only two psychologists. The psychiatric clinic has no traumatists, no bankers and therapists. And, of course, in relation to beds, it is characteristic that while the incomplete organism provides for ten beds, because of the needs of thirteen have developed, if you like, and the imperative need to staff the clinic by permanent and stable personnel. However, much more dangerous than that which touches almost the limits of the insult and the healing and workers in it is the fact that the clinic is housed in a pre-war war, we would say, a building which is particularly dangerous especially after the last earthquake in Lesvos, which has very poor health conditions and does not even have the necessary space for pre-health. It is characteristic that the duplicate balcony they used, a meter by two, for their precipitation is under collapse and at risk. Not only can a man come out on the balcony, but he's in danger of falling into the head of those who go through it. So we ask you: What measures will you take to get the psychiatric clinic as soon as possible to serve with all necessary medical, nursing and other personnel with a permanent full-time and full-time relationship? Of course, we ask for the clinic to be immediately relocated either to the new ward of the hospital or to another suitable place based on international standards for mental patients.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u54	The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Rapt. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ms. Konnakas, I did visit the General Hospital of Mytilini, "Bostinio", in October. As you said there, the open short-term care facility for adults is open and you also know as a member of the area that a series of notices have been issued since 2016. And since 2016, a proclamator II has been issued, since 2018 we have had a diligence notice and, of course, within 2021, that is, four months after I visited the hospital, we have two notices for the psychiatric clinic, but many have become barren. The incentive problem, which has been highlighted in the previous question raised here to the Deputy Minister, is a matter that the Ministry has dealt with and is about to make, as the Minister said two weeks ago, specific incentives which are to be given to enable them to serve in border areas such as Mytilini. These will be economic, fiscal and insurance incentives. This is because, to date, aid has not been possible - because staffing has been in operation all these years - with further staff. Today bed coverage, because you referred to bed coverage, is 50% a year. Last year, a hundred and fifty - seven incidents were hospitalized. So there is full coverage with the specific staff made up of the psychiatrist, retired in four years, by the two psychologists and of course by the ten nurses. There is coverage of all incidents recorded and imported. Also, of course, the needs to which you refer in your question to bankers and injured persons are covered by the existing staff. Now, in relation to the building infrastructure, too, I found it, there has been a building that has been built since 1940. By the 2017 earthquake, the building infrastructure was controlled, as the Command had informed me, and the capacity was not changed. And today the board of directors and the 2nd Health Region have taken concrete steps to rebuild it. They have completed the study of static adequacy and have approved the budget for this study and submitted it to the current NSRP, because the study of 445 000 euros can be financed by the NSRP. We believe that, with the completion of the study, we will be able to incorporate the reconstruction of the building in order to actually have a better infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u56	Mrs Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u57	Indeed, as you have pointed out, the issue of psychiatric clinic is not new. There is long and sadly, very bitter experience on the island. And it is no coincidence that we point out the danger and the fact that they have now stayed with a psychiatrist in the clinic, because in 2016 the hospital administration was forced to close down for a period of the psychiatric clinic, when the only psychiatrist needed her to get sick leave. You understand that an entire area - such a sensitive - cannot remain in the service of a psychiatrist's only service. And of course, the consequences experienced by hospitals are chronic and last for all governments. It is characteristic that we have also received corresponding promises from the previous government when the then Minister, Mr. Paulakis, opened the new ward of the hospital. Since then, psychiatric patients, their relatives have been waiting for the reinforcement and transfer of the psychiatric clinic to a decent building that does not insult or jeopardise - if you like - the very lives of patients and workers. The earthquake in Lesvos has been since 2017, where stagnation checks have been carried out and has been overdue since many years since to move forward in the building. Instead, we are talking about a building in which, unfortunately, mice are often found in, a building with dangerous health conditions, which cannot, of course, continue to treat any diseases, let alone these. It is characteristic that when these subsistence conditions are presented even at this time of the pandemic, real and legitimate concern arises as to when hospitals are to be adequately served with all necessary nursing and health personnel. It is not, moreover, the only clinic that has gaps. Of course, because you often bring back the motives and are reasonable, because life for all other residents is difficult, unfortunately, and not only for doctors and nurses on the islands of the border, and it is becoming increasingly difficult, we wonder if it is ever possible for a doctor to go to a clinic like this to work, undersecret, but also when he does not even ensure the hypothetical conditions of decent work in such a building. So you understand that the reasons that lead to resignation - one after another - often doctors are not irrelevant to your policy and how you really care to deal with these problems. We consider it necessary to take care of their immediate relocation and then repair the psychiatric clinic building. Of course, in order to be able to tackle the problems of staffing as a whole, it must be done in all the skills required to cover permanent posts, so that we do not continue to deal with this issue with the ending of contracts and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u58	Here, Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u59	I should like to say that the question of metastasis has indeed been studied, but with the existing capacity of the hospital buildings, this cannot be done. That is why the study is being speeded up immediately, and I believe that, at the end of this year, we will have the study in order to be able to see the question of reconstruction as well. Now, in relation to the strengthening of the National Health System and the area of mental health, as the Minister has said, there will be permanent recruitment, the recruitment of the subsidiary. The mental health sector was, however, strengthened during the pandemic. In particular, as far as permanent recruitment is concerned, we have hired in the last ten months a permanent psychiatrist and paedophiliacs and, of course, twenty-three subsidiarys and immediately supported with nurses the 'Dafni' and the 'Dromocaete' with forty nurses last week, and we are also planning - and this is something that I think will help the hospital in Lesvos - the specialisation, the recruitment of qualified mental health nurses, which will be done in a very large number in all the health regions of the country. I hope that Mytilini Hospital will also be strengthened with qualified nurses. Now, in relation to the trade you mention in your question about the National Health System, there was obviously no commercialisation either during the pandemic or never. On the contrary, the Ministry's intention, but also the practical implementation of his intention, was to strengthen the National Health System and, as far as mental health infrastructures are concerned, what happened was that very recently we had one of the new structures that we launched. This was the double-diagnostic clinical oncology, a new psychiatric structure and clinic, as well as a new one, and for the first time in the Peloponnese pediatric clinic, which is a hospitalization clinic, hospitalizes incidents. Finally, I would like to say that in the remote areas, as has recently been done in the Evros region, there is an attempt to strengthen mental health units, while the General Hospital of Alexandroupolis is supported with mobile units, so that they can go to the most remote area, in the remote areas of our country and provide mental health services. With regard to digital reform, a new innovative agency - which we set up in Kastelorizo about a month ago - is the Digital Medical Service, in order to provide in a remote area the prescribing, issuing certificates and apparently the diagnosis and psychological support of patients. Finally, I would like to say that last week, we signed with the Interior Minister the new seven-year programme agreement on prevention centres, where the Ministry of Home Affairs and Self-government provides renewed psychosocial support services from over seventy prevention centres operating throughout the country. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Finally - and I conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - it is very important that we have submitted to the Recovery Fund specific costly projects, which we hope will be financed in the next few months and that we will have further reinforcement of the country's mental health services in 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u60	We move on to the 15th quarter with number 841/4-6-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexis Haritsis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The facilities of the Kalamata camp remain unexploited". Mr. Haritsis, you've eaten us with Kalamata! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u61	What can we do, Mr President, are very important issues and we want to discuss them and move on. Thank you, Mr President, and good day! Mr. Minister, good morning! As you well know, the operation of the "Paplessa" camp in Kalamata is an issue which concerns the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, the military leadership and the local society for some two decades. I would remind you that in 2005 it was decided to shut down in the context of the rationalisation of the Armed Forces and the savings of resources. Then, we had the transformation of them as the 9th Infantry Constitution, but with degraded functions and reached 2018, when the SYRIZA Government decided to shut down, then the opinions of the Supreme Military Council as a whole in the reconstruction of the camps and military services throughout the country, as well as in Messinia. I must point out that at the time there were very strong reactions from the local officials of the New Democracy, but reactions which were not justified by reality. I think what has been justified was the decision of 2018, in the sense that it seems that today's leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, and you, Minister, are progressing towards the implementation of this 2018 plan. But that raises a very big issue. This issue is about how this area is now to be exploited. We're talking about two hundred and twenty acres. It is a very large area on a very important point of the city and at the foot of Taygetos. So we think it is very important that the Ministry plans to take advantage of this area for the benefit of local society and, of course, how it plans to involve local society throughout this whole debate. At local level there is a broad consultation. There are proposals that have also been tabled in the public debate by actors in the region and by self-government, but also by political actors. It is very important and that is why I am coming back because I had tabled a question on this matter and on 30-9-2019 almost two years ago, Minister. At that time, the answer from the Ministry was that the issue is being considered. I think we have now reached a point that we should move forward. I do not want to stay in what happened in 2018 and then in the reactions to your Ministry's decision. I think we should see for the future. So tell us - and my question is clear - what is planning and what is the timetable for making the best use of this very important area possible? In no case, of course, can we afford to leave such a space untapped. Tell us, of course, how local society, with its proposals and its institutional bodies and representatives, will be involved in this whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u62	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, it is reasonable for you, like all the colleagues in the Messinian constituency, to take advantage of a camp which, in the first place, seems particularly attractive for use as an element of the real estate of the Armed Forces. And we are talking about the 'Paplessa' camp. What's the matter right now? Indeed, since 2018, it has been decided to shut down and since then it has been decommissioning, i.e. it has not completely ceased its operation, but it has been reduced to a limited percentage because there, according to the military service's reply, the 77th ME, that is to say the 77th Campaign Unit, has been enlisted. It is therefore a partial function, whether or not a residual function, of the camp. What does that mean? It means that the camp has not been released for use by the military service as an asset of the Armed Forces. Therefore, an active camp - I have said it personally here too many times in questions and answers - cannot be exploited by the TECH because it is precisely described as active. If it is described by the military service as inactive, then the road opens - because it also matters here - for its use. I have not yet received an official request from any of the institutions to take advantage of this property. But it has come to me by the Mayor of Kalamata - as I also know a proposal has been made for the use of your colleague in Messinia, Mr Chrysomalis - and the answer he has received from me is that we are completely open to proposals for the use of this property, provided that a serious, well-founded, costed proposal is tabled so that we can go to the military service, decide whether the camp must remain active or inactive, and according to the answer to move on. I have therefore formally received interesting proposals. Last Friday I was in Kalamata, where in my location there in the context of an event inaugurated by the 120th Air Force Training Wing on behalf of the Air Force, I said that as the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence we are open to every proposal, because the property of the Armed Forces is good to be exploited not only for the benefit of the Armed Forces - that is obvious - but also for the benefit of the local society. A prerequisite for this is an integrated proposal. With goodness, therefore, if this proposal comes - and you can move in this direction in contact with colleagues and local authorities - we can see it. The camp, as I told you, works in part, to a small extent. It's not inactive, but it's partially functional. That formula could be found so that most of it can be released and exploited, in accordance with the existing proposals, but it is enough that they are submitted in the right way and that they are comprehensive and documented. I'll say a few more in my denture. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u64	Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think your answer is important because I think it opens a way forward. As I said before, what we care about is what happens from now on. As things stand - and I must say that I agree with your approach - I think we can move on. Let me say this: if I learned something from my ministerial term, too, there are many interesting ideas and proposals. However, it is a question of how these conversions are made into an operational plan, so that it can be implemented, because of ideas other than that. In this sense, I think it is very important that there should indeed be an integrated proposal, costed, with clear timetables, with clear uses for this region. So, in this sense, I will also convey your intention to have this cooperation both with the municipality and with all the actors in the region, to see how we can jointly move towards a solution. In any case what, in my opinion, is very important is that our enemy here is time. Because we have seen in our country - in many cases - areas of great importance and great beauty that, while we leave them unexploited, they will put in place a process of complete reparation. That is what we must avoid, in my opinion, so that the relevant procedures can be accelerated. I will move on from my point of view and your intention not only to discuss it, but from what I understand we are moving to a solution immediately - that is important - and I expect the actors in the region and the municipal authority to come forward with an integrated proposal as soon as possible to see how we are going. In any case, we will be here to follow this issue, because you really need to know that for the entire local society it is very critical that this region is best exploited, as you have said, and for the benefit of the Armed Forces, but also for the benefit of the local society above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u66	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u67	I will only say two words very briefly, Mr President. As you rightly said, Mr Colleague, there is here the prospect, the will of the local society, but the energy that will trigger the whole process will be the submission of an integrated proposal to the Ministry of National Defence, which the leadership of local government, that is, the mayor, the municipal authority, can only do. From there, like I said, we're open to everything. Kalamata is facing a very positive prospect in the coming years with the conversion of the 120th Air Force Training Wing, which is where we are training the Air Force Icares in the air field, at an international training centre after the agreement with the Israeli company, which will really take up the possibilities of training the Icars not only of our Air Force, with what this entails, but also international pilots, that is, it will literally take them off - as we speak about air training - to a great extent since the international training centre will also meet the requirements of our Hellenic Air Force, but perhaps it will give rise to revenue from the training of pilots from other military flights in our country and especially in Kalamata that has the ideal conditions of flight, as you know. So they're gonna need extra accommodation. The opening we made last Friday in accommodation within 120 AC on behalf of the Air Force under the program "Hellenic Wings Inns", i.e. "Greek Wings and Accommodation", serves this purpose. I said there that more will be needed, as the international training centre is being prepared. The international training centre will be running in about two years from this summer, when work will begin. The Israelis are already on the ground and are planning the first steps. I therefore consider this to be the timeline for bringing about local and additional accommodation for the future housing of those who come. Therefore, a proposal substantiated with the Ministry and the rest begin in accordance with the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u68	Region, selfgovernment, chambers and MPs. That is something I hope you all agree with. Take it up for you. We are now moving on to the seventh with number 868/14-6-2021, a topical question by MP B1's North Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Inquiry procedure for obtaining a certificate of competence for naturalisation for the acquisition of Greek citizenship". The Minister for the Interior will answer Mr. Mavroudis Voridis. Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u69	Minister, this matter clearly shows how progressive Mitsotakis is and I would like to ask you whether you consider yourself to be in the category of progressive policies. I want to ask you some questions. Don't be afraid, you won't be taking away Greek citizenship, but I want to show you in the Greek Parliament the way in which we trouble people with whom we live together, in our company, in our homes, in our homes, the bus and the public transport that we go down to work every morning in order to naturalize Greeks. Of the thirty thousand outstanding applications came to the test less than two and a half thousand. Those who came had to pay a paradox of 150 euros and an exam of 550 euros and, of course, extra costs if they took care of them. And look what you asked them, I'm reading from the Topic Bank: What known Greek actor played Lieutenant Natasha in the homonymous movie? Karaze, Vlachopoulou, Vuyuklaki, Karayannis. How many times has Greece presided over the Council of the European Community? When was the first time Greece took over the presidency of the European Union? When is Greece's next presidency at the European Council? Questions Right - Wrong: Are Gospels the good spirits of Christmas? When the new school year starts, do we sanctify? When someone gets sick, do we make a spectacular pie for him to be okay? Why am I asking you all this, Minister? Because this is the theme bank with which you put the questions and developed the issues and beyond, you also have difficult socio-economic criteria in Greece of the crisis, of the coronary pandemic, and before the crisis of the memorandums, which you are asking them specifically for for a certain period of time. The question, therefore, arises in Greece of the 21st century, in 2021, is whether we will have a normal and normal system of naturalization, where, as a natural continuity of a person who has lived legally for many years with us in Greece, we will be able to naturalise Greeks or put obstacles to institutional and social racism. I say this because yesterday we had a big news about this crime in the Sweet Waters. I want, Minister, to read to you what was called and what was written on the Internet and the media about these issues. Balaskas: “Intended aliens the killers in the Sweet Waters”. Title in the newspaper “SPORTIME”: “The uncontrolled poaching settlement brings inconceivable barbarism and imported crime.” In twitter Mrs Latinopoulou, a New Democracy official in northern Greece: "If Caroline was black, drug addiction, LGBTQ community, violating, etc., the entire Left would be a symposium on the streets, demanding the arrest of offenders and justice. But for their bad luck she was white, married and happy with her husband and baby. So vocal, logical." Why am I saying this, Minister? Because we need to break these walls of racism, we need to break these walls of the different. Greece must finally be upgraded to a modern European country that does not put the right-handed type of sport on anyone who wants to take Greek citizenship. And I think that with the changes that you have made when you took over, and with this tough and difficult issue bank, you want the candidate for naturalisation not to have a smooth accession process, but to be something of a retreat. Criticism of these...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Zachariadis, but close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u71	I'm closing my first talk with this and I'm going to go on later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. And I wanted a little in advance to organise my answer, to ask you whether you would be strict in time or whether I would have some comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u74	Small tolerance, as with Mr Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u75	Yeah, just because it's a big deal, you're gonna tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u76	I would just remind you that this is the seventh question and in total we have twenty-four.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u77	So you'll be strict in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u78	I'll be as long as I have to. Let's go. I'm ticking the time. Did you see what you were doing to me? I'm wasting time on you. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Zachariadis, look, what I want to do is to have a transparent, clean and inconsistent system with which to really see what is being asked to become a foreign Greek citizen. Apart from the conditions of the law, as defined in the Code of Nationality, a number of criteria have been recorded in the law, which has already been passed by Parliament, and is law 4735, at 12-10-2020. The criteria are described there and the objective of the criteria, which is internationally accepted, is that the existence of a strong foreign bond, which is demanding its naturalisation with the state in which it seeks to be naturalised each time in each state. This is an international assumption. A first question, which I turn to you a little, is whether you like this or not, if you think there should be such a strong bond, and then we'll go to whether and how it can be distinguished. Or if you think that in the end, only by simply staying for a certain period of time, you don't have to do anything else. If you have this view of telling us, but tell us clearly and not take them around - around. The law says, therefore, that the foreigner, in addition to the conditions laid down, must know the Greek language sufficiently well, must know the Greek history and geography, the Greek culture and the conditions of the Greek people, as well as the way in which the institutions of the country's culture operate. Question: Do you disagree with the wording of the law? Do you want to remove it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u80	For Vuyuklaki, tell us about Lieutenant Natasha!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u81	Don't be in a hurry. You're going to be exposed a lot. Secondly, it must have the ability to participate actively and effectively in the political life of the country, respecting the fundamental principles that govern it, to have a smooth entry into the economic and social life of the country, making it a continuous centre for its living activities. That's what the law says. Do you want them or do you want them on SYRIZA? Clear words. Let's go to the exams now. Now I'm going to be so sad. Because I don't put the subject of exams and I'm not a professor, I don't do this job. I'm a lawyer, and I'm a Interior Minister. So those who put the issues in place and built the topic bank are a committee of experts, Mr Philly, specialist teachers, most doctors, and put these issues in place. There has been a criticism, Mr President, that matters are difficult. But I have heard another criticism that matters are very easy. To tell you my sin, I don't have a point of view, not even if it's easy, not even if it's hard. I trust a committee of people who make matters, that's what they do. But let's see the results now. What does Mr. Zachariadis say to us? It's very difficult. If it's hard what we'd expect? Failure, yes, not to answer them. How many responded? Of those who ultimately despise them and underestimate them, because you think they can't read three hundred topics that have been posted online with their solutions, and go examine them. How much is the success rate? 72.16%. So how is it difficult to answer 72.16%?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u82	What's the participation? For the participation, let us know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u83	Now let's go, Mr. Philly, from one mistake to the other. You're in a hurry again. I'll tell you about the participation. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u84	You cutters!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Philly, be honest in the conversation. Say you don't want any prerequisites. Say it clean. It's an honest and clean conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Voridis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Philly, it's also a disgrace to Mr. Zachariadis who is the questioner. Do not interfere and make comments to the Minister. The questioner sits quiet and you're interfering.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u88	Just say it clearly so that our political and ideological difference can be made clear. That's why I asked you the questions of the law to place you. You don't want any prerequisites. You want an automatic procedure. Whoever's been here for seven years, naturalize him. The law says something different and says it right. This is about the question of the examinations. I come to the part you tell me about how many people they gave. Two and a half thousand. When does he have tests again? The next semester. How many applications - because you tell me how fast and nice you're doing! - which you've examined in four and a half years since the thirty thousand? Not even a thousand in four and a half years. Which of the two systems is better? I'm not saying who makes more or less, as you say. I don't have a quantum criterion. I don't care if there's too many of them or if they're few. I have a quality criterion: objective, imprecise, clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u90	Minister, let's get one, one. First of all, when you measure the success rate, you will not count on those who applied for and went to the examinations, but on the overall applications. So 72%, that is, the thousand seven hundred, are in the thirty thousand outstanding applications because people saw the bank, saw the difficulty of the issues, saw the money, saw the criteria that you placed them in Greece of the pandemic and before the memoranda and did not meet the criteria. You tell us 72%! What are you afraid of, Mr. Voridis, are they coming out of the Greek Solution or other places and tell you that you are easily giving citizenship? This is the problem of Mr. Mitsotakis' progressive government, how will it all be ours? So the law was in our day too. I don't want to take you too much back. You said in the 1990s that the country as it is in danger of coming three and a half million Muslims and becoming Greek citizens and so on. Did that get to 2021? Nothing happened. We're just afflicting people. It's good for people to have them at home on a technical job. It's good for people to take care of our old fellow citizen, our parent, or not. They're very good if we don't pay them security and get away with it, and we keep them in the pocket. But he must also be a Greek like us can't. For Olysseus Chenai, Minister, have you regretted what the country did twenty years ago to this child today who is pervading human science in the United States of America? I regret the attitude of my country then and the explosion of racism. Let's go to next now. You're asking if I want there to be criteria. Of course I want there to be criteria. But is it not a criterion, “Which Greek song took “Yirovignon””. So you're gonna put yourself in my position to ask you, how would you ask? Vossou Sophia 'Spring'? Ruva "Shake it"? ‘My number one’; Chanaclid ‘Charlie Chaplin’? Is that the relationship with Greek culture? Is that what I'm telling you? Do you agree with the view of the Minister of Development, which says that immigrants are frustrating the country? Are you still stable in your views on nation-state in the early 1990s, or do you realize that you are in a globalised era? For Tom Hanks that Mr. Mitsotakis went with a helicopter to visit to see him, it was easy - and right - to get Greek citizenship. For the dozens of Greek athletes who were ahead with gold, silver and bronze medals - and right - it was easy. For all these day-olds, the viopalists of life, why does this criterion not apply to the viopality and excellence of everyday life? Because these people work alongside us, these people contribute to the Greek economy, these people helped in the 1990s and 2000s at the high growth rates, these people cannot be part of a margin. So, far from me, saying that without criteria, without any way of taking citizenship, but also a view that says that the citizen should be afflicted and tortured. Finally, you know around the world that this debate is also linked to demographics. So I ask you: last week you were speaking at a conference of fertility and reproductive autonomy in Ioannina. Because I saw that many of the government's agencies had patronized, they had sponsored...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u91	Now what does that have to do with the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u92	That's...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u93	It has nothing to do with this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u94	So I want to ask Mr. Voridis, even if I'm stepping on my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u95	Ask it and close with a tolerance. But if he wants to answer, why does he have nothing to do with the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u96	Well, I think Mr. Vorides wants to, because while everyone else has retired, he shut it down until the conference lights fall. So I ask you: at this conference, Mr Vorides, on reproductive autonomy, what would you say as Minister of the Interior about fertility as a key pillar of development, which was the title of your speech? Can you give him the publicity? Would you like to come over and discuss this in Parliament? Do you want to discuss this outside Parliament, why is the President right that I am currently on the limit of the question? Will we be able to live harmoniously as a society, without racism, without walls and without prejudice? That is all, Mr President, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you know better the Rules of Procedure than I do, on the second side, if you wish, if you do not wish to answer and Mr Zachariadis comes with another question, another day. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u98	I think that Mr Zachariadis' answer is 'but instead of the bird's milk. Can we come up with something? Why do you ask me a question about citizenship, I answer you about citizenship and you start and tell me what has happened at the conference and what has happened with Caroline? Chaos. Do you want to have a serious conversation about citizenship? Serious discussion about citizenship means that first, your claim is overwhelmed. What? You've done two reviews. I'm reading your papers. You have made a statement in which you said: ‘How many could answer with fifty words the question of what European citizenship means and what rights and guarantees arise from it, what category is the Aerial Court? What is ECOFIN and which Minister is taking part in his meetings'? And I'm answering, not me, the ones who gave tests: 72%. And what do you come and tell me? Listen to the unprecedented we heard today. "The success rates will not be decided and judged on the basis of those which participated in the competitive process, but on the basis of those that did not participate in the competitive process." I have heard misunderstandings in here, but this is one of the best, that for a competition we will calculate the success rates for those who have not participated at all in the contest. Excellent! Unique! You say to me: 'But, you know the others didn't.' And how do you know how many people will go next semester? And how do you know how many people will go next semester? It's twice this year. So what are we talking about now? But I come to the second, because you do not want to have a serious debate. You want to talk - I told you - but instead. The second thing you say to me is: 'You have set very strict criteria for economic integration'. Why have you not referred to this at all today, Mr Zachariadis? Because you like blurred water more. General talk about racism, what we were talking about in 1990, what the conference was. You do not want to talk about policies, say in concrete terms. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr HARALABOS Athanasios, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr HARRAMPOS Athanasou.]] So what are the criteria set out in the Ministerial Decision on Economic Integration? Minimum minimum income, minimum wage over the last five years. What are you saying? That's strict. Do you want to counterproposals to me or do you want to have no criteria at all? Watch why you're telling me it's strict. What is the criterion you are adopting here in this provision? The criterion we have set to grant long-stay status with Law 4255/2014 and Article 89 is as follows. To get his status for a long time when he legally resides abroad in Greece, he must have income sufficient for the needs of his own and family, which does not come from recourse to the country's social assistance system, says the law. This income may not be less than the annual earnings of the person entitled to the minimum wage in accordance with national legislation, increased by 10% for all dependent members of his family. That is the criterion for us to do it for a long time. I use the same criterion to get the status of Greek citizen. What do you say it's more serious? The long-term resident or Greek citizen's status? What's more important? And yet we use the same criterion and you tell me it's strict? Which one do you want us to use? The debate goes to the cradle, Mr Zachariadis, and that is why you want to discuss it but instead of others. Because you really do not want to make your position on the criteria for naturalisation clear. Our position is very clear. It was captured in the law, it was implemented in an integer and transparent process, the integrity and transparency of which the Citizens' Prosecutor and the National Transparency Authority controlled it. What was the previous regime? Slow, opaque, we were hiding behind our finger because they neither responded positively nor negatively to these applications. What have we done? We have put in a clear process that no one can question. With the former regime there are currently fifteen cases pending in the prosecutor for corruption. It is the regime that you are defending today, the regime that you have implemented, the regime that you refused to change. With our own regime and system, with our system of naturalizations, we see that there is indeed this strong link with these criteria and of course we are giving answers. To answer all the criticisms. The other criticism I hear is criticism from the extreme right. You tell us it's difficult. The extreme right turns and tells us it's easy to deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u99	What extreme right? You're splitting up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u100	I don't want to go to psychoanalyticals now because you guys are going to find yourself in a difficult position. Leave the splits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u101	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Philly, we don't have the same terminology nor do we have the same descriptions, but I hope we can get to know each other. I am therefore referring to those who have the following viewpoints. "You will never be Greek". That is not the view of the Government, and that is not mine. My view is that the existence of a strong genuinely coherent relationship with the country will be seen through an integer and imprecise system. I shall close, Mr President, by giving the last figures, because these figures also matter. They also have an important role to play in the public debate. Total number of acquisitions of Greek nationality since 1990, starting with the strong migratory flows until 2000, four hundred twenty-seven thousand four hundred thirty-nine. The population is around 4%. Of these: homogeneous two hundred and sixty thousand fifty-five percent of the population, thirty-three thousand ninety-three thousand ninety-three percent of the population, birth - education, that is, foreigners, who were born here or spent twelve years here, ninety-two thousand thirty-eight. That's what we're talking about. That's the situation. So, Mr Zachariadis, the system worked. We are proud of the introduction of a system that calmed one of the most basic pathogens that existed. We are proud that this system has not been a complainer to tell us that it is diabetic, that it is not intact, that it is affected by corruption. We are proud of the fact that a system has been introduced that really sees the existence of this strong link. We therefore leave you with your internal contradictions and contradictions and, above all, with your lack of courage to say what you really and clearly want in the policy of granting citizenship. No test, just stay. Say it. That's what you think. You want this strong bond not to be seen. This is your real position, and this actually bears witness to our great ideological and political disagreement, which cannot be concealed, Mr Zachariadis, behind lymphatic and impressive - a little spectacular final - findings of what has happened at the conferences, about what has happened in the 1990s, about what has happened once. The debate is here and in this real debate you need to put in place, and I think we are all in agreement on what is your real position. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u103	We enter the first under number 861/11-6-2021 of the SYRIZA Deputy Drama - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: “Showing more than a thousand documents from the Protestant Corfu Office - Dimensions of the case and disciplinary control of the persons involved”. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Justice, George Kotsiras. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor. I would ask everyone to keep the time, because there are too many questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u104	I welcome the fact that I am one of the few Members who follow him precisely, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u105	It's known, Mr. Xanthopoulou. I say this in general to everyone, not to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u106	Because I have the floor, that's why I'm commenting. I can therefore say this. It is a good time that we are three lawyers: Mr Kotsiras, you as President-in-Office and I, because it is an issue which does not look to anyone for what has been done at the Court of Appeal in Corfu. Before that, however, I would like to say that it is also a happy juncture, because the Minister, who would be in a very difficult position on the day after the detection of the murder in the Sweet Waters to come to Parliament and see us before him when he has opened the debate on the tightening of penalties and fuelled the conservative reflexes of a society throughout the media, on social media, the Friday's law was reinstated, and the debate has not been found who is the perpetrator has gone back to these issues and has actually taken a step in conservative and reactionary attitude from top prosecutors to whom the country's cultural and cultural character is at stake. Good luck has protected him from the very difficult position. I now come to the specific question. "They disappeared" a thousand documents from the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office. It is something that you, Mr President, and you, Mr Minister, and I, first of all, realise that it is incomprehensible. "They disappeared" in two doses, five hundred and five hundred. The essential consequences of this loss are unknown. I don't particularly want to insist on the descriptive part. I have two very specific questions. First. Has disciplinary procedures been initiated by the Constitution and the Law? Has persons in any way been made available in this case? Two. Minister, does the Ministry intend to strengthen by posting officials this year's inquiry to enable it to perform its duties, given the lack of staff in both the Prosecutors' Prosecutors and the Court of Appeal? I have information that this year is also involved in the composition of courts and goes to the headquarters. In all this, and with its huge amount of work, because there are suspicions of serious economic matters which have been dropped because of the disappearance of more than a thousand of the above-mentioned documents. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Blondopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, given your initial reference to the criminal environment that is being created and the position of the Ministry of Justice, I would remind you that it is a permanent position, which has been expressed by the Minister, that the changes made to legislation such as the Criminal Code are obviously done by sober and legal processing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u109	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u110	For this reason, Mr Xanthopoulou, a committee on the legal basis of the Criminal Code has been set up for some time, which assesses all the data. And so, when she suggests to the Ministry of Justice her proposals will be processed in order to amend the changes to the Criminal Code. However, the position to tighten up specific offences which have been vacant in law is independent of the social environment of the present and is a product of processing. Also, since you referred to whom a change in this debate is honouring, I would remind you that you voted for a Criminal Code, a very important piece of legislation, one month before Parliament closes for the 2019 elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u111	And we did very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u112	So you realise that this kind of criticism of its supposedly timeliness and dependency on the changes in the Criminal Code is mainly about you who have raped without cause and cause to change the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u113	Don't mix...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u114	Now let's go to the question. You know very well, Mr Xanthopoulou, that from the Constitution, from Articles 26, 77 and 78, the judicial authorities carry out their work fully independently and are solely responsible for assessing the information and information that comes to their knowledge to make use of them and to take appropriate action. You are also aware that under the Code of Justice and Court of Justice, under Articles 57 and 57A in particular, the judiciary may be put on holiday if a criminal prosecution has been brought against the criminal prosecution in cases where the law determines and if it has been brought against the disciplinary prosecution for a misconduct that can bring about the end sentence. This post shall be taken on a holiday by a Presidential Decree on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, issued on the basis of a fully reasoned decision of the relevant Supreme Court. In this case, therefore, and with regard to the first part of your question as to whether the procedures laid down in the Constitution and the Law have been initiated and whether the specific procedures for persons allegedly involved in the current case have been initiated, I would inform you that the procedures provided for by the Constitution, the Code of Procedure and the Statute of Judicial Officers and the Code of Judiciary have been complied with. In particular, at the level of disciplinary procedure with regard to persons who are the judge-in-law and who have been subject to disciplinary action by the competent bodies of the Ice Bay in order to carry out a disciplinary preliminary examination, while for persons who are the judge-in-law and for whom disciplinary action has been brought, the five-member board of the Court of Appeal of Corfu has been seised. In relation to a person who also bears the public prosecutor status, the Supreme Judicial Council of Civil and Criminal Justice has proceeded with the proceedings and is on holiday, which has been extended. As you know, after six months, it has to be extended and proceeded with this process. As to the criminal aspect of the case, it is clear that for those who are involved in the case, criminal justice, and in particular the competent interrogator who handles the case, and the competent prosecutors, depending on the economic context in which the case is found. In order to keep time, Mr President, in Mr Xanthopoulou's second question I can come back and come back and not abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Xanthopoulos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u116	It is important what you have said to us, Mr Minister, as far as the first question is concerned. I'm going to make an extrajudicial, and I'm going to say this. Since the Monitoring Committee for the Criminal Code is in place, calmly and without screams to see what exactly happens with the specific dimension of the offence. I have neither the institutional position nor the scientific knowledge to make proposals at this time. It may, however, be that a calm discussion within this committee will give the guardianship of the offence, either in its legal form or in the form of a penalty measure. I say this to be recorded in the Minutes so that we do not retrospectively come and scratch wounds and create other perceptions in this House. Secondly, I appreciate the answer to the first question. Clearly we will all be waiting for the progress of the disciplinary procedure. You realise that it does not provide any honour to any of us for the loss of a thousand documents from the court of Corfu. Secondly, I stress, Minister, what is going on with this year's inquiry and the strengthening of its control role, the secondment of any officials, partners, who will help him. And all these weapons he has to have to deal with a case in which we really don't know the endings. I have my information that this is mainly about the volume of cases in which we lawyers are dismissing them. Apart from these cases, however, there are also very serious cases relating to rights of the general public, with taxes imposed and fines and charges. And in any case, at the end of this route, we will make the balance sheet. It is important, however, that this process of control be carried out in order not to run back and simply to see the defeat that we have suffered as a legal order. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u117	Thank you too, Mr Xanthopoulou, for keeping time. You are always in all your speeches in time. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Xanthopoulou, I don't know what information you have on the matter of strengthening this research. I would like to inform you that there is already a question to be discussed on the five-member office of the Court of Appeal of Corfu, because you know that this procedure is being followed, for the secondment of an official from any court department of the Prosecutors' Court of Appeal to the service mentioned by you in your question. There is therefore an ongoing procedure to strengthen this service. We must, of course, stress, Mr President, that the full strengthening of the field of judicial services, which is taking place in the further digitisation of support structures and structures for justice by the Ministry in cooperation with other ministries, will solve many problems that may arise along the way. And it should be recalled that this piece has been a very great effort by the government when there is already an integrated system of judicial justice management for civil and criminal justice, when specific procedures are in place for the electronic lodgement of procedural documents, for the electronic monitoring of the course of cases, for the electronic monitoring of the debate, for the electronic lodgement of applications, for electronic, digital certificates. All this undoubtedly helps to the wider issue you have raised. I would remind you that recently with the Code of Judiciary, which we discussed in the House a month ago, there was provision even for assistant judges. A model followed by all the advanced states and large courts such as the Court of Justice of the European Union or the European Court of Human Rights, which are senior judiciary officials assisting in the work of judges. SYRIZA did not vote for this article, although it was an initiative that has proved internationally to strengthen the support of the judiciary officials to achieve the objective you have set in your question, that is, the best use of the data available to them to judge and assess a case. Therefore, on this issue, I have informed you of the matter. In general, I think there is an answer. But since you have again put the Monitoring Committee on the Criminal Code again, I say it again, because we must stress that a process has been carried out that will be carried out at the Ministry of Justice, it will be evaluated and come under the legal procedures. However, it will not come a month before the House closes for the elections and be voted for by a party or two unless you leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u120	This is not the case, but exceptionally you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u121	First of all, I would like to say that none of us know when the House will be closed, only the constitutional deadlines for this are set. I don't know if you want to tell us something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u122	I'm on my way with constitutional service.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u123	Secondly, Mr President, I will use Mr Vorides' expression 'other milk' on Friday'. I asked you very specific questions and you referred me to the Code of Judiciary. Even if the provision had been voted on, or if we waited for it to be voted on, the agency to be staffed, that is, not to talk to you about it. It is a hypothesis that osmates, smells, honors none of us and requires direct, targeted moves. That's why I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I too am asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you, too, are entitled. After all, you have had time to answer the second question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u126	Mr Kanthopoulou, in the first question I answered for the disciplinary procedure in full, and I think I made myself clear and accepted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u127	I'm covered, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u128	On the matter of the judicial officer, I also informed you that his secondment procedure is currently under way, as provided by law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u129	Don't mess it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u130	But since you have put it in general, I too have to say that when we bring initiatives that strengthen judicial authority in the assessment, such as the assistant judge who would not be in this case, but since you put it at the outset, I must tell you that you did not vote for this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u131	Thank you. We move on to the next question which is the first timely question of a first-round question, number 860/11-6-2021 by MP SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance of Mr Nikolaos Friends to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Removal of the Ministerial Decision on Religious Discharge". The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mrs Zetta Makri. Mr. Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, training goes from bad to worse. In the pandemic, the Ministry of Education remained unexamined. We have a explosion of social inequalities. You do not respect the teachers and degrade the content of education, turning the school into an examination centre without taking steps to relocate and reform the school ahead of the new year and given the pandemic and the learning gaps that have been created. You have a hatred, unfortunately, in lessons that create the possibilities of a constitutional obligation to form children of free citizens. For history you have announced its degradation in a course of national care. Sociology and other political education courses have actually taken them out of normal order. And, of course, we have the lesson of Religiouss where a lesson that ought to be a lesson in knowledge you have turned it into a lesson in faith at the expense of the functioning of the democratic culture and of the learning of children. Now you are going to one even worse: there are two decisions. The decision of the Independent Personal Data Authority that the exclusion of a learner from a Religious Class requires only a simple statement from the parent that, for reasons of conscience - I stress only consciousness - does not want the child to attend the course. This is the decision 32/2020 taken by the Privacy Authority. And there is also the irrevocable decision by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg that expressly prohibits control of religious and other opinions, namely the personal data of any citizen and parent. With the decision you have brought this year, abolishing previous, more tolerant circular that existed on the subject of Religious in schools, what are you doing? You say: First, it can get free from the lessons of the Religious ones who is not a Christian Orthodox. Meaning? You call on the parent to state what god he believes, namely personal, in violation of the European and Greek legal order. And not just that. You tell him that both parents should agree on this issue, go to a public authority, confirm the original signature and bring it to school, when for other courses such as Physical Education, for example, you allow a simple statement by the parent that the child wants to be excluded from the course of Physical Education. In other words, you are creating obstacles to the exercise of a right which Greek citizens have in relation to the question of teaching Religiouss in children. Minister, it is regrettable what is happening, your obsession with religion, your obsession with the degradation of education, the pilgrimization of extremist church purposes and pursuits. Where you are at the Ministry of Education, you are not, in order to smuggle such principles, but to support the democracy and education of our children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Philly, go on with your dentistry. You've been in four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u134	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. The judgment of the European Court of Justice shall be irrevocable from the beginning of 2021. In other words, the Greek State raised no objections to this. And the decision of the Personal Data Protection Authority is also a given one, because the Greek State did not follow its tactics in intra-transverse proceedings, that is to say, claim to the Council of State the change of that decision. You are illegal against citizens' rights. Unfortunately, you are illegal at the expense of education.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u135	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Philly, this is the second time I have answered your question and I have seen for the second time that you think this step is a good opportunity to make a criticism of all the matter, while at the same time undermining the important question, in my opinion, which you yourself have tabled. I will not tell you that you are not respecting the parliamentary procedure. But I will tell you that you are undermining the importance of the question. That is why I, too, will confine myself to answering what you are asking me, and I imagine that there are other fora to have a general debate on our own policy, and I would be very happy to compare it with the policies of the predecessors - and so yours - of the previous four and a half years. I shall make a brief historical reference, Mr President, and I shall conclude my answer to my dentistry, so that I do not misuse time. In 2012, Mr. Comrade, an application for annulment against existing circulars was made and according to the decision of the Administrative Court of Chania under number 115 was considered that the administration had to regulate the way and the reasons for the dismissal of students from the Religious Class. The Ministry of Compliance has issued its Circular No 12773/D2/23-1-2015 - I will also observe and you will agree that it was three years late - which regulates the reasons for exemption from the Religious Course and the procedure to be followed. Subsequently, the decision of the Administrative Court of Chania stated that the circular that was issued - the one I mentioned above - was fully in line with the operative part of the original decision. This circular - in my dentistry you will understand why I am insisting on this - has since been without any of the Ministers for Education and Religious Affairs, including you, to amend or abolish it. The latter, indeed, Minister of Education of the Government of SYRIZA and of the Independent Greeks, this circular on the discharge of the Religious course incorporated it in the Ministerial Decision 10645 of 2018 on the registration, transfer, schooling and the organisation of school life in secondary school schools, although strict legally there was no legislative authorisation. Here it should be noted that you show religious attachment to the requirements of the principle, at least in words. You have never complied with what is stated in Decision 94/2015 of the Plenary Assembly of the Personal Data Protection Authority which recommends, with a detailed statement to the administration, that it has a special legislative authority to issue circulars regulating the issue that we are concerned with today. In other words, in Greek simply, Mr. Phile, you have issued circulars without the necessary legal framework. The strong and substantiated view of the principle of the need for special and certain legislative powers in accordance with Article 43(2) of the Constitution, you have completely ignored it. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. On the contrary, in line with the decision of the Council of State, the decision under No 1749/2019, we adopted the ministerial decision No 61178/2021 on which we had the authorization - that is, very firm and correct legal provision - and we provided for and laid down the procedures and conditions for exemption from the lesson of Religiouss. I shall continue, Mr President, in my denunciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Philly, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. It seems to me that the clock stops - from what the Minister said - in the 2012-2013 Administrative Court judgment of Chania. I told you that in 2020 we have a decision of the Personal Data Protection Authority that says that it is enough to invoke a matter of conscience - not religious, conscience! - so that the child doesn't attend the religious class. I told you that in January 2020 there is an irrevocable decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which says that it is forbidden for the Greek State and any State to control citizens' religious opinions. You are questioning all these and illegal and going to some decisions that have become a raven in the consciousness of teachers, children, society. You're outlawing inconsistently! Answer: Why do you not apply the decisions of the Privacy Authority and the judgment of the European Court of Justice? You are clearly forging behind the issue of the decision of the Council of State that speaks of religious conscience. It does not, however, say that a requirement for the parent to apply for an exemption from Religious Rights is that he is not a Christian Orthodox. Look out, this decision of the S.H.E. This is not about the question of an application for exemption from the Religious provisions. It is about the subject of lessons, the contents, and the decision has been taken, as you know, in a way that is unacceptable to religious issues in schools. Incidentally, in paragraph 16, in a second decision of the Council of State on compliance with case law, there is a more positive development. It is not mentioned as a prerequisite for the application to declare repentance by the Christian Orthodox and to say that he also believes that for this reason, because he believes, his child wants to teach or does not believe and wants his child to do a lesson. It simply invokes religious conscience, which I repeat, and this is back, because we have a decision of the Data Protection Authority on a simple conscience and decision of the European Court of Human Rights which forbids this kind of file on the personal data of Greek citizens. But what personal data am I talking about when I'm talking about the Ministry? When he went through the pandemic for a year with personal data - with CISCO - students and teachers, proven by the decision of the Personal Data Protection Authority. You're writing this thing in your old shoes. You don't care, you act as dictators at the expense of children, parents and teachers. So when I talk about the overall context of the crisis in education that you create, it's not out of material, it's the problem! Every action of yours is at the expense of education, at the expense of teachers, at the expense of children, at the expense of parents. This is the problem and the lesson of Religiouss is part of this religious ideal of yours to the detriment of democratic education.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Philly. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. However, Mr Philly, I think it takes too much courage - not to say courage - to refer to 'CISCO', after the debate in Parliament, in the presence of the Minister and in the answers given. And with regard to what you said, I am not going to say - because I am still a good person - that you are deliberately twisting. I will say that you are uninformed and very sad to see it. Well, I answer you on the point. We stopped as a ministry the wrong practice to regulate the discharge procedure through circulars. Legislatively authorized the Minister to issue a ministerial decision, which you did not do, despite the fact that it is not at all difficult. We have incorporated the request for discharge precisely in the text suggested by the Council of State without completely changing anything as we had to. We have included in the ministerial decision all the provisions that ensure the applicant's personal data. And that you could have done, but you didn't. To be clear, we have practically implemented the decisions of the Council of State and you and with the question and with your position you are asking us to ignore the Council of State and to apply the decisions of the Privacy Authority. If we followed your logic to the Ministry, it would mean that the state is applying the decisions of the S.H.E. only when the Minister concerned agrees with them. You realise that this is an institutional problem and I do not believe that you are encouraging this ministry. There would be an institutional crisis. We do not play with the institutions and we do not take your view, if I interpret it correctly from your position. With regard to the famous judgment of the European Court of Human Rights invoked, Mr Colleague, the one you brought with a previous circular, the one that we and you personally abolished and condemned as contrary to the phrase "I am not a Christian Orthodox" which should then be included in the discharge declaration, which is no longer taken. But your real aim, as shown by your positions - and you will allow me to interpret you - is not the change in the discharge procedure. Your real aim is to overthrow the decisions of the S.H.E.L.D. with which you do not agree and convert the lesson of Religiouss from compulsory to optional. This is not possible with the current constitutional framework. It's not the Ministry's intentions and you're trying indirectly to do it, digging a little bit - so we don't understand you. And I shall end, Mr President, with this rhetoric for me. This debate must be held in public and open. Do we want Religiouss to be taught in school under the guarantee of the Ministry of Education and by teachers who are graduates of theological schools or do we want them to be taught exclusively outside school with what that means? And the nod, I mean. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the ninth top tenth question under number 849/7-2021 of SYRIZA's MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct establishment of the educational theatrical education sector P91". And this question will be answered by the Undersecretary, Mr Zetta Macrey. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, “This is what is going on, ” says Antigone in verse 523 in Sophocles' universal work in response to Cretan. The Antigone - Love, Reconciliation, Counseling - State, Dry and Power. We are talking about the theatre of the attitude of life, of humanity and of sensitivity, and what we are called upon to confirm once again at a negative juncture about the theatre and its people in the act, is that I exist and exist when we share and share feelings, solidarity, humanity and sensitivity. Because the theatre makes us better people. Minister, Ms. Makari, this is what I ask you to share with my question, my concern, the care, the conditions and conditions of the theatre teachers' theatres P.I. 91, who, with their hand bags, have received their letters from Thessaloniki, from Imathia, from all regions of Greece, been in hostage for twenty-five years through the replacement procedure. They are these people who build within the school, not the wall of immunity, but the wall of resistance to hatred, extortion, aggression, demolition, racism, violence in favour of tolerance and diversity. The Child Rights Convention itself stresses that the child has the right to freedom of expression. That right shall include freedom of search, receipt and dissemination of information and ideas of any kind irrespective of borders in the form of oral, written, artistic or any other means, in accordance with Article 13 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. That is why we are directly answering the question why, therefore, the theatre is needed at school. And this question they answer with the same question we often hear from the mouths of our students and students: 'Mrs., sir, what are we going to play today?' We're talking about elementary school, because if we have an answer to give, we're dealing with the basic need for children, the game, where they don't judge them, they don't evaluate them, they don't get right or wrong. They learn to share.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u143	All right, Mr. Triantafylides, you'll continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u144	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u145	We've been in four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u146	“ Why, ma’am, will we not have a theater? Why, ma'am, do we have only once a week?" And they ask, replying to children: “Why are we treated as the keys to the educational system? Why don't we get a more decent attitude? Why do we not create organic positions for the thousands of gaps that exist? Ninety is only in primary and secondary education.’
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u147	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u148	And the needs to meet are about a thousand, a thousand theatrologists. And I must say here - as I conclude and thank you, Mr Athanasios, for your tolerance - because we are talking about the souls of the young children that it has not happened. It's a systematic process. On 8-12-2020, thirty two SYRIZA Members tabled this question on 24 March, as a reference to our national Parliament. In particular, on 7 June I tabled the timely question, which Parliament now gives us the opportunity to express, and on 8 June it was Article 4 in the teleworking bill, which you are recommending in Article 4 these organic positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u149	Come on, Mr. Triantafylides, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u150	And here we have to say - and this is what I am closing down, Mr President....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u151	Yeah, but you've been in five minutes. Instead of two minutes, you went to five.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u152	...that these positions are not the answer. These two hundred seventy-one and seventy-seven-six positions are characterised, because they are an internal arrangement for existing teachers in primary and secondary education. Thank you and I will come back to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u153	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. When you started with 'Antigone', Mr. Colleague, I thought the previous debate had caused you the stimulus as you were. So you will allow me, before I reply, which I will answer directly to your question, to make a general reference to our policy to understand the reforms that we have carried out, because, as you know, there have been obvious inconsistencies brought about by the health crisis and they have, of course, also hit the educational process. Nevertheless, we have remained in our goal to implement reforms and to bring the public school up qualitatively after they have been implemented. I am telling you, for example, our two-year pre-school education, school skills workshops, primary and high school activities throughout the country, activities in English at the kindergarten, supporting teaching in secondary schools, support structures for education, the integration of vulnerable social groups and refugees into the relevant process, the specialized and personalised support for the integration of pupils and disabilities, the support of schools by psychologists and social workers, the distance learning of our teachers. We upgraded and continue to digitally upgrade the public school and the school network and within a few months, some one and a half million teachers, students and students were integrated from primary and secondary and lifelong learning in distance education, which they transferred for the present and the future by crushing stereotypes and demolition. The permanent appointments you refer to by specialising in the organic positions of the theatrical education industry are the main pillar of our Ministry's policy and a dominant element of our programming. Appropriations have been provided for the appointment of ten thousand five hundred permanent teachers for general primary and secondary education. Thus, the public school is being strengthened with human resources, the learning process is being supported and we provide teachers and students with the stability, the prospect and the possibility of professional resilience. The permanent appointments that cover important needs of our educational system are added to the four and a half thousand appointments to the special treatment carried out in 2020, which were the first in the country in this sensitive area. Our aim is, therefore, to carry out the appointments as soon as possible and to place our teachers before the start of the school year for the fuller staffing of school units, which was done last year. So I come to your question and say to you that an amendment by the Ministry of Education and Religion was voted on at Law 4807/2021, where Article 55 entitled 'Agreements for organic posts in branches of primary and secondary education staff' stipulates that, first, there are now seven hundred or twenty-one organic posts of primary education staff, at the same time abolishing equal numbers of posts from secondary to various branches, including the branches and specialities of PE artistics with three hundred five positions, PD 71.1 Musician with eighty-nine posts, PD 91.1 Theatrical Studies with a hundred seventy-sixteen posts, with fifteen-seven-seven-seven-seven. In cases (b) and (c) of the same article, by decision of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, these posts are allocated once to training addresses per transfer area and school units. Organic positions by industry and expertise shall be allocated and made available for the definitive placement of teachers at the disposal of regional services councils and for the examination of short-term requests for the transfer of school year 2020-2021 that have not been met in terms of selection. And the organic positions that remain vacant after the examination of applications for transfer are available for appointment. I'll come back to secondary. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Triantafylides, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u156	I will submit to the Practicals, Minister, the letter sent by a hundred and fifty theatrologists, an open letter from the Panhellenic Theatrologists Association, as well as the Alumni Alumni Association of the Department of Theatre, Aristotle School of Fine Arts. Minister, you promised - and you are two years of government - to bring the lesson back to the V and F - and you did not do this - the lesson of the Theatrical Education taught by the finely established and for this particular ad hoc lesson of the Theatrical Education of the IP 91 and not as a second assignment by teachers to complete their hours. So, there is no depth, meaning, meaning and value in the theatre class, that is to say, children learn to share roles, learn to assume their responsibilities, learn to learn that process, that I have existed since I share things, feelings, situations, truth, lies, hate, positive, negative. This is the essence and power of the theater created in this country two thousand years ago. And for her, neither for Zetta Makri, nor for Alexander Triantafylides, nor for Mr Athanasios is known Greece throughout the world. Sophocles, Euripids, Aeschylus knows him all the world. And this lesson, instead of having the first lesson within the teaching process, what have we done exactly? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you, I am not opposed, Mrs Makrei, to come in a mood and because of the previous academic life - a philosopher specializing in Theatreology - to make a practical contribution. Create organic positions! Create and give equal distribution! Create and push! You cannot have the theatrologists as roaming flowers to change six schools, to change fifty to six hundred children, to teach that lesson. The lessons that exist in the Finnish education system do not exist with the value and importance that must be given to our own, the country that gave birth to the theatrical act and theatre. So, instead of doing this, as you promised, in case we assumed that it was a mistake to leave V and F in elementary school, what did you do? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] You abolished that lesson in high school. Why? Create what they propose to you, namely a powerful pillar - look at me, Mrs Makre! - the third pillar of aesthetic education that gives the opportunity of three lessons, artists, music and theatre...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Triantafylide, please. You've reached nine minutes in total!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, don't talk to me, I'm finishing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u159	Okay, but you've spoken for five whole minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u160	There's...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u161	The Minister spoke for two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u162	There is a process from which we are trying to make something creatively specific. Mrs Makrere, I make suggestions and not opposition. Create the third pillar of sensual education in high school with art, music and theatre. In high school there is no specific lesson at all. Bring it to the N' and F' grades, bring them to high school as a third pillar and the children can choose between artists, music and theatres, the two of the three lessons. You're gonna have to bring it back to high school. That's the point. And if Starius tells you that there's a financial problem, I've got you here - and I'll testify to it in the Minutes - a family in which the husband is permanent in education and the wife's deputy. I have the 'E9', their tax statement. It is precisely the same expenditure. For you could tell me: 'Mr Triantafylides, how are we going to take the positions to the thousand? There is also an economic question.’ And the finance is covered, not to tell you that the cost for the public is higher for the surrogate than it is for the permanent. Monitor them! Give them real opportunity to give their souls...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Triantafylides, that's enough! Your other colleagues cannot speak for a total of five minutes and you can't speak for ten. That's not happening!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u164	Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u165	You're welcome, but that's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u166	Yeah, but when you sat down...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u167	Good, but what am I going to say now to Mr. Kamine or Mr. Synchronakis? What am I gonna tell them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Voridis spoke ten minutes. Do not share the House in "patients" and "patrikius"! Be fair!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u169	Listen, Mr. Triantafylides...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u170	Before me, Mr. Vorides spoke and you gave him ten minutes! I've spoken four minutes and fifty-nine seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u171	Don't say that for me, because I always let colleagues talk when there's...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u172	Please! Rescind this look! I'm not letting you speak with that look!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u173	It's not right for the five minutes to be ten. It's not right! It's at the expense of others. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u174	We put our souls and try to represent issues relating to education.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u175	It must be understood that this is not a personal matter. We have to respect colleagues! Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, if I may, I would like to say for the sake of justice that Mr Vorides has indeed exceeded the time limit, but this has been in consultation with the Bureau, because his colleague, Mr SYRIZA, who was asking had taken more than twice as much time. He was in consultation. And I say it because I was present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u177	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u178	Looks like he didn't notice. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u179	First of all, Mr President, I hope you will get the consent of the people whose tax declaration, 'E9', because I think that is a sensitive personal given.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u180	The names and personal data are covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u181	In any case, and because you referred to the two years of governance of the New Democracy, I would like to tell you that our behaviour and our approach, in relation to your question, was much more sensitive and careful than your more than double-time behaviour in these matters. And I don't want to insist. Others disqualified, others interrupted and others did not apply what you now ask. In any case, because it is a sensitive matter, I will speak on the question you have put to me. According to Article 7 of Law 3848/2010, as is the case with Article 15(3), paragraph 4 of Law 1566/85, the appointments of permanent teachers are made on the basis of existing organic gaps, following the procedure for the transfer of permanent teachers staff to the remaining posts. Subsequently, a joint ministerial decision of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and Finance setting out the number of job vacancies of teachers to be covered by industry and specialisation or specialisation shall be adopted by the allocation of appointments. As far as primary and secondary teachers are concerned, including the qualifications of teachers of artistic and theatrical education, I would like to tell you here in parentheses that I do not adopt the term "bulls" or the treatment on the part of the Ministry, and I suppose you did not mean it at all and that you said so at the very edge of your speech. The provisional evaluation tables, alpha, candidates for general education of the 1GI/2019 and 2GI/2019 were therefore published and, with the completion of the objections and the adoption of the final evaluation tables, the appointments of permanent and alternates will be carried out. Until the final version of the evaluation tables, temporary alternates are recruited. I will now refer to the recruitment of Deputy Educational Studies and Dramatic Art in the school year 2020-2021 in general education and specific education, both primary and secondary. Recruitment was carried out in five different times, depending on functional gaps. In addition, recruitments were undertaken in two other periods by issuing a special invitation to specific schools and in two years' service periods due to COVID -19 for the coverage and legal possibility of extending the contract. Until March 5, 2021, they were recruited in the primary Deputys of Theatrical Studies and Dramatic Art of General Education, Refugee Refugee Reception and Education, in the special treatment of nine hundred and fifty-eight total. They were also hired to cover and legal procedure for a three-month contract due to COVID - 19 thirty. In secondary school, alternates of Theatrical Studies and Dramatic Art were recruited in general education, reception and education structures of refugees and special education, nineteen. To fill gaps under a three-month contract due to COVID -19 total four. The new organic positions I mentioned in my prototype were considered necessary in the light of the forthcoming appointments to general education. As you can see, teachers of theatrical education and in general of the artistic courses are necessary, and that is why we also made this recommendation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too, Minister. It will now be discussed the fifteenth under number 851/7-2021, a topical question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The problems of the public IKK of tourist professions in the Municipality of Hersonissos Regional Unity (IP) of Heraklion Crete". The State Secretary for Tourism will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the public IEK of tourist professionals in the Kokkini Hani area of the Municipality of Hersonissos is one of the largest in the country. It was housed in the hotel “XENIA – HELIOS” and operated as a public profitable company from 1988 to 2011, which, under the responsibility of previous governments, was decommissioned and closed. We're not talking about the school, we're talking about the hotel unit. They studied in the academic year spent two hundred students in ten sections of different specialties, with too many deficiencies in elementary functional needs. The school has been dehumidified by permanent staff. Most are retired and the needs are covered - if covered and as covered - by contractors, with significant deficiencies in too many specialties. Recently, the director resigned because of serious health problems - we wish him pass - and for a month the workers there could not do anything at all, nor the paperwork could be prepared to enter the fund. More specifically, firstly, during the last year of the pandemic, the courses were held through tele-education. Laboratories did not work, so students did not practice themselves without basic skills practice. In fact, there is also a humorous comment released by IEK students in the announcements you made as government to upgrade them, that IEKs have also become universities, since they are a year closed. Secondly, the unacceptable scheme of the practice of students with a salary which does not exceed EUR 390 mixed and the insurance coverage is only for accidents at work. Thirdly, the IEK Hersonissos does not operate after education because of the serious shortages of permanent educational staff, under the responsibility of the current government and the former, of course. Fourthly, there are shortcomings in the remaining staff necessary for the operation of an IEK, such as electrician, plumber, guardians. For example, this IEK operated seven years without an electrician and whose fewer employees are of a certain amount of time. Fifthly, the security service is assigned to a private security company and the risk is always there to plunder if it remains unguarded. Sixthly, there is insufficient funding that does not cover either elementary and multiple needs in consumables, for example for the needs of food laboratories or the maintenance of premises. Seventh, the building is one of the key issues facing students and teachers. The state has completely ignored all the previous years to maintain this building which is in a terrible state. This, together with government statements that the buildings of the tourist schools are licensed for another year and a half from the EBRD and is unknown what will then be done, increases the concern for privatisation of the facilities. So we ask you, Minister, what the government intends to do to ensure that all necessary educational, administrative and other staff are recruited and post-school education runs under the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism and with the grant of the unemployment benefit to the retired. Secondly, all necessary for student education, such as equipment, consumables and with full state funding, should be ensured free of charge. Thirdly, to maintain the building facilities, in line with the requirements of a modern training centre and the needs of free accommodation of the students of the school, without consideration for privatization of the "XENIA" building and with care to satisfy the long-term request of students and teachers for the integration of IEK Tourism into the Ministry of Education. And finally, ensure, with the responsibility of the Ministry, that all students are able to practice themselves on the basis of the general collective labour agreement and sectoral contracts and have full insurance cover and medical care. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Synthraki, thank you for the question. Let's start wishing the director of IEK passively. Man really gave himself to this school that has demands, has demands on the building part, as you say. Indeed, it is a chronic situation. At the moment, however, we all stand behind him in this personal adventure. The procedures for covering it have already begun. Because, you know, there's a special profile that can cover a managerial position in IEKs - you know it very well - and there must be corresponding postgraduate studies. But the secretary-in-Office has initiated the procedure because, you know, we in the summer also have supervision of the practices, which I shall refer to anyway. You raise a number of issues concerning both education and retraining and practice in IKK Heraklion, but in general also in the IKK of the Ministry of Tourism. Because I wish in most cases and if there is any evidence I will only reply to them and not to the more general tourism policy or to some other issues that I would like to focus on today. As far as ownership is concerned, you said that on the basis of government statements - in the question you said so - the buildings have been allocated for another year and a half. That's how it's been recorded in the question, Mr. Synergy. You've changed it here. Let me tell you it's not true. The buildings of IEK Hersonissos Heraklion are in the absolute ownership of the Greek State and there is no concession to the EBRD. So that is my answer to the first question. Post-education. You say that there were no post-training courses in IKK Heraklion. Let me tell you that neither does that. Four retraining courses with seventy-four retraining were in operation. I would remind you that on 8-12-2020 the notice on the introduction of eight hundred five retraining workers in IEK Tourism was issued on 8-12-20. And since we are being watched by people who do not have to know what this post-training programme is to say that they are living after-training programmes for the unemployed and seasonal workers, in which, Mr Syntagakis, I have to tell you that next year we will have more, that is to say, a thousand people from the eighteen in more cities. So we will also cover cities where we may not have an educational structure, our IEK, our tourist school, to have children, people more chances of getting skills, upgrading skills and of course professional perspective, and of course earlier. Why would you agree with me that when post-education starts near the season the food association comes and says "we cannot participate". In fact, we must also be very consistent with the time limit. So we'll start, and we'll be more in more cities and earlier, as we have to do and we'll do it. I have to tell you, of course, that the increase - particularly for the IEK there - will be one of the seventy-eight people I mentioned, in a hundred. But you also referred to the practical issue. I therefore inform you that in the new joint ministerial decision, adopted 1-6-2021, for the first time, there is a possibility to integrate these practical training programmes into the NSRP, with an increase in this case of wages of 80% of the permanent salary from 60% which is now. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, in order to avoid delaying the procedure, I will continue to do so with specific answers to my colleague's questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u186	You have the floor, Mr Synthyakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u187	Mrs. Secretary, you said you'd stand up, you'd be fine. We all stand by, but you know that's not eaten. We must move on to very immediate and drastic measures. And I'll say more specifically. On the matter of ownership that they remain in the Greek state, we keep it. The question was more to have a public answer from the Ministry's side, because a lot is being heard. But we're keeping it. The second is that you said that the post-training departments are working, and even four. Let me inform you, then, that the post-training courses are held at the Alykarnassus Centre and not at the IEK in Hanni Kokkini. So let's get them one by one. It's a matter of funding. It does not exceed EUR 20,000 per annum. Tell me how to meet the real needs of such an educational structure with two hundred students, with anachronistic laboratory equipment - it has equipment, but it is anachronistic - and with incomplete maintenance of the entire facility. It cannot meet the needs of laboratories in food, thus requesting sponsorship from their partners. Will you, then, increase state funding to the level of real needs? One of the prisoners. Secondly, real exercise and apprenticeship. Back, you know, from fine words there's hard and mispaid work, without any substantial benefit to knowledge and experience on the subject of their studies. The monthly pay of students - I told you - is 390 euros, 60% of the minimum wage - is pocket money. Even these crumbs are often overdue. The working hours provided for in the papers, which are eight hours a week and two days a week, are in practice converted into endless hours and work without a day's work. The overtime that is daily ten hours and twelve hours is a reality in all the islands. Those who work six days a week and take even a day off must consider themselves lucky. Now imagine by legislating the anti-labour law of ten hours and thirteen hours of work with unpaid overtime and adjusting working time! What's wrong with that? Slaves, sunwork! And don't tell me, of course, about SETE going to do any checks, and the others, because they also show up in a loss and a fall, not to tell you that many times they go spoken. Residence conditions do not even ensure the possibility of a minimum rest between daily shifts. In many cases the accommodation provided to them is not even windows, they are in underground, they act as warehouses, unconscious buildings, and three, four students together. And you know, if you decide to talk to children, except for the "carrot" of the career promise - this is the title you give -, it turns from the employers to the whip of the student's rating and evaluation as a threat to impose the disgraceful conditions of pay, job, living of these children. And fourthly, for the maintenance of the buildings, I wanted to ask you these questions in relation to the property and you have prevented me. I have nothing to say about it. There is, however, the following fact that I would like to put to you. Over the past decade, the state has been indifferent. You need to see what's going to happen with the maintenance of the building. We are talking about a very large building, it's in a 'fileto' area. The building on the school is maintained by teachers and students many times. But your soul will catch you. I don't know if you've gone. You have to go and visit. And honestly, I was when I went, I was ashamed. Is it possible to have such buildings under these circumstances and say that Crete is the island of tourism?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u188	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u189	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that real upgrade can be made, in our view, only with free books, modern workshops, necessary consumable material, with permanent educational staff from the first day, with compulsory paid leave for the period of examination for the employees of students, modern buildings that will not be frozen by students, free movement in the public transport sector. Real knowledge of the practice of the profession can be exercised with practical exercise on an object that the young person has studied with job supervision, with five-day, exotic, practical exercise, with full work and insurance rights and a minimum wage of EUR 751. And, of course, certification of knowledge and competences, which are the result of the overall functioning of the curriculum and not the pursuit of collective certifications. So what they want young people and young people to claim to these schools - and I am bringing it to you - is work in the specialty they have chosen, with modern employment rights and not unleash the employers with wages - money and endless hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u191	You happen to talk to a man who has worked 10 years in IEK, in all specialties and in the public IEK of the Ministry of Education. I haven't worked in IKK Tourism. So I am well aware that the children are also anxious about the practice, and you are very happy, but also the dual part of continuing education, and of course the very important part, which we have tried to cure, in other words, the connection between the child who is going to train and find work. Because, if anything, the practice worked, Mr Synthyakis, and worked well over the years. The rest of you mentioned, we could talk about cases. Let's not generalize here. As we said, we want to be specific. Problems are not solved if we generally deceive a process that is so important and have supported it and all parties, you know. It is not something that bears an exclusive signature, the subject of practice. We must, therefore, link them and strengthen it. That is why we have made it possible for the NSRP to make 60%. So you will agree with me that it is just as important as the next communication, that after 11 years we are updating the practice in our schools. What does it mean to upgrade? We are broadening the business to which children can practice. After 11 years we are expanding the practice to ten more companies. I think we should all sign up to this development, because it gives children choices to go if they want to work in businesses that have their head office in the European Union too, with the part of strengthening their own skills, but also the possibility of finding jobs. That's why we want it to be a well-paid job, in good working conditions. In order not to say all business and not to get tired, I will leave for the minutes and the press release, but also for the ministerial decision to be taken. It was a joint ministerial decision and I thank Niki Kerameos, the Minister of Education, but also Kostis Hatzidakis, the Minister of Labour, because together they basically co-signed this request from the Ministry of Tourism to upgrade practice. We also make it more flexible. Because, you know, they couldn't practice as long as the theoretical lessons last. So that gives children more choice. On the issue of deficits, I should like to tell you that in recent years the number of teachers, administrative staff and permanent staff has risen. You're right, a lot of people are retiring, and that's where moves are made with the Ministry of the Interior, so that this piece can be covered. The teachers are constantly increasing. Imagine, then, that of the hundreds of eight instructors we have in total IEKs right now, we will get to the hundred thirteen. I think that they are steps forward, strengthening and consolidating this feeling of coverage from the Ministry, which I must tell you is coming and covering. You raised the issue of equipment to me. Required, laboratory and digital equipment. So we made a special request as a team in the new NSRP to strengthen and digital equipment so that children can make use of the entire reserve and of teletexts with their trainers. We must be proud that as IEK Tourism and tourist schools we have not wasted time this year. And it is very important that we keep this as a common conquest. However, we also take care of other standards and benefits. I say to you that there is a request in the new ESDP, and what you understand will be launched. I want to tell you something else, because this is also a communication, which I certainly think you will think is something positive, even if you do not say so in public. Inside the Recovery Fund the first work of the Ministry of Tourism is the proposal we brought to the table and accepted for the retraining and acquisition of new skills for twenty thousand unemployed and seasonal workers. It is the first project to run the Ministry of Tourism. It'll start over 2021. The five thousand beneficiaries will begin. And that's gonna run for the next two years. We therefore want the children - and the children who are currently in the unemployment range and who have this insecurity, and the seasonal workers - to have a high level of retraining on seven thematic sections up to the modern needs of tourism and, of course, from educational institutions which, if you like, and the absolute clarity and high level of study provided. Because it's a lot, I'm gonna hang up with it, 'cause I don't want to misuse time. In the area of infrastructure, I must tell you that I will go there as well as IEK Anavyssos. And indeed the fact that the old boarding houses, you know, have come to a situation which is not satisfactory, which does not make use of the spaces, I intend in this part of the development to provide concrete solutions so that either as boarding houses to operate again or for children to be able to do practical means. However, I am not yet ready to tell you the next step, because we had to resolve the issues of operation this year and put the regulation of the IEK for the first time. After you have operated and served in IEK, you know how important it is to have rules of operation. It was the request of the trainers and the IEK addresses and will take place. That's all from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too, Minister. The next question is the second question under number 863/11-6-2021. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, thank you. Thank you, too, for letting me speak from the Step. Mr. Undersecretary, they are almost to be completed five years after the state granted the city of Cesarean to the city of Cesarean and yet the municipality is not yet the master of this area. Why? Because there there are systematic vandalism phenomena, even at the expense of the historical monument of the "Symposium of Lefteria" and an extensive lawlessness especially during the weekend where meetings are held in the Skopje without the municipality's permission. There are concerts without the city's permission. It works there a refreshment and food is sold without any control or tax. And all this for a long time. The victims are mainly the residents - and we are talking about hundreds of people because the city is in the centre of the city - residents who are still awake because these concerts are being held - I stress it again - without any municipal permit they are holding until the early hours of the morning. It should be noted that soon the municipality has planned to start regeneration work because the site is now a centre for the anti-fascist European network of cities. Very often, and I speak to you on my own experience as mayor, the local police departments are fortified behind those provisions which say that the municipality is obliged, for those crimes that are being committed there, to file a complaint. In my opinion, when there is systematic criminal activity in a public space, which is victims of an undetermined number of citizens - and I am referring above all to the citizens who are tested for their nerves until the early hours of the morning - the police must intervene on their own initiative. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u194	You have the floor for your prototype, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Let me quote from this step to congratulate the Attica Security Directorate and the Directorate for Criminal Research on the important work they have done both interrogatively and scientifically, and so we had yesterday, in a short time, the detection of this appalling crime that has recently taken place in the Sweet Waters, which has undoubtedly caused emotion and concern to the public. Services have shown that by means of a scientific approach, we are moving forward. I would like to assure you that the police staff with a high sense of responsibility are also doing their job in this tough fight to deal with crime. All we need is to trust it and morally support it. Ladies and gentlemen, our faith in the need to safeguard security and social peace in a favoured society, such as the Greek one, requires us to be the first strong judges of the policy applied in this area. The issue of this topical question is an issue that is also known and concerned with us in the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police. The evidence available to us makes it necessary to intensify the operational action of the police services, since there have been cases of violations of behaviour in the region in the same way as those mentioned in the current question. However, I would like to point out that there is no generalised and systematic lawlessness, as described in the area, because this would describe an image where the police authority would have been absent, and lately I would just like to remind you that there have been some kind of interventions by the Greek police, there have been confiscations of megaphone devices and the people responsible have been brought to justice. This is not the case, of course, since the police services responsible for the police force of the Municipality of Cesareans, the Cesarean Police Department, the Security Department, and the Athens Motorways Department are attempting within their competences without interruption to implement the law. Of course the policing needs that these services are required to meet are particularly high, especially in view of the fact that the Cesarean Shooting Centre is an area of about four hundred seventy acres of green in the urban fabric. The human potential that manipulates these services, as well as the entire services of the Greek Police, needs further support because, as you know, it remains very well in deficit as a result of budgetary constraints, due to the Memorandum of Understandings over the last decade, which did not allow the support of the body as a whole with the necessary staff, while the departures from it were also the result of retirement and retire ments. We are constantly monitoring the area's violating elements, assessing the existing operational planning and attempting when and where redeployment of resources and personnel is required to achieve the best possible outcome, always in the context of existing possibilities. I would therefore like to assure you that all the elements and points, such as those contained in the current question, are considered with due care and where there is room for strengthening or reforming the actions of the police services, are the subject of an assessment of the political and physical leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and we are planning to develop more specific actions in cooperation with local government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if I'm not mistaken, we have one of the highest averages in Europe in the proportion of police officers to citizens. We cannot hear anyway, anyway, the argument that the police staff are not enough. I asked this timely question precisely because I have a very bitter experience as mayor of a similar phenomenon in the Hill of Streph. Repeatedly, there were concerts and the local police station told the inhabitants that the municipality had been licensed and took no measures but fragments. I didn't like the fact that exactly the next day I tabled the timely question you made a business at the Sniper. This situation has been there for years, at least since 2018, as far as I have verified. There were other facts there. A fifteen-year-old was stabbed, too. Last July, the city was forced to make a announcement that he hadn't given permission for concerts. That's all about the police policing at the Sniper. Because you raised the freshwater issue, I will also congratulate the police because it seems that we have a very powerful evidence that is a confession. Businessly, they deserve congratulations. From a communication point of view, however, I fear that there is a very serious problem and you must look at that in the future when there are crimes that shock public opinion, you will manage information for the public. There must be protocols. There must be an official briefing and there must be no leaks or trade unionists walking around the channels who, instead of doing their job, who are to defend the interests of their colleagues, with all due respect for their mission, intervene in this way where they have no business. They give explanations on issues relating to the substance of criminal acts and the course of interrogation. This is the work of the police leadership through its official channels. So you're obliged to look at this. I think it is very serious. I understand the pressure that has been under way over the entire period of the Ministry. Because it is a crime that has shocked public opinion, but its communication management requires that the Ministry review its policy so far. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u199	First, I would like to make two comments, Mr President. With regard to Mr Kamine's report that the proportion of police officers in relation to the population in Greece is too great, in relation to the European police forces in other countries, if we look at the numbers closely you are right. But if we look at the number of responsibilities assigned to the Greek Police in terms of carrying out its mission and the responsibilities of the police forces in the other countries of Europe, we will find that the staff of the Greek Police which is purely available for policing are much less than what is available to the European states. In terms of effectiveness in relation to the means and resources available to the police personnel, the state has a very important effect and we must give this a positive credit to the Greek and Greek police officers. As far as the trade unions are concerned, I do not want to go any further. But I have to make a reference since you have touched on it. They don't represent the body of the Greek police. The Hellenic Police's body is publicly represented with the institutions with representatives of the press and with those provided and legitimate to make announcements. It is a more general matter, however, as to what trade unions are talking about and when they are talking about, but these are issues which are not the subject of today's debate. I have to. However, since you have raised it, I should like to inform Parliament and the public - although it is well known - that the trade unions' reports represent their associations and not the Greek police.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u200	And there's no work for the Greek police, is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u201	The Hellenic Police has been working and has made the information institutionally with the press offices provided and as imposed by the regulations of the body.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u202	And what steps does she take to get this off the record?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u203	They're ongoing administrative investigations. A number of issues are the subject of investigation by public prosecutors when infringements of issues relating to the principle of secrecy in the preliminary investigation procedure. But let me say a few words on the subject. The Cesarean Sniper is an oasis of green, a recreational space with municipal cinema, with playgrounds, stadiums, schools, while at the same time it is a place of memory with separate pages in the history of our country during the years of national resistance. It has been designated as a historic site since 1984 and is protected by the provisions of Law 3028/2002. Unfortunately, there have indeed been occasional instances of violations of behaviour by individual minorities, which neither the historicity of the site respect nor, of course, the inalienable right of all citizens to enjoy this area of entertainment and sport safely. The effective treatment of incidents of infractional behaviour in Kessariani, as well as in any other corner of our city, are part of the priorities of the services of the Greek Police. Our effort is lasting, it goes hand in hand with the daily actions of the competent local authorities of the Municipality of Kessarianis, which aim to maintain this lung of the green, of particular historical importance accessible and secure to the inhabitants of the city. In fact, it was only yesterday that a meeting was held at the Ministry of Citizen Protection, where the Minister with the Chief of Greek Police and the municipality of Kessariani assessed the situation and examined the possibilities for more effective response to the illegal concerts in the area, as well as actions to strengthen and strengthen the sense of security for the citizens of the region. We are therefore next to the municipal authority and are looking forward to further close cooperation with the relevant local and civil society bodies. Conservation of the character and the protection of the history of the site of the Cesarean Sniper requires unity and syntax for all of us in common cruising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the third with number 867/14-6-2021 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Problems of workers in Kavala fertilisers". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Here, Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a hundred and thirty-workers in Kavala fertilisers, the only ones under an indefinite contract, remain outside their work, despite their judicial jurisdiction. They are invited to tripartite conferences in order to proceed with team redundancies from the Laurentian factory. In the meantime, industrial work has been fully "worked" with what this means for the labour rights and income of about five hundred workers working with a few months' contracts, but also for the safety of the plant's facilities. It is even used for the trick to move workers from a contractor to a contractor with fixed-term contracts, so that they never entitle them to an indefinite contract. Workers with contracts of indefinite duration with their long-term struggle claim to cancel redundancies, return to their jobs without change in their employment relationship. The escalation of their struggle brought them to camp in front of the Ministry for twenty-four hours in order to show their demands and get answers from the Ministry. Their movement became acquainted with the total solidarity of unions and strikers. And is the government asking about this, Minister, what does it intend to do to ensure that legal decisions are implemented and that workers return to work under the terms of the collective agreement they have signed? And what are you going to do so that the employers do not proceed with redundancies and there is no change in their working relationships? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u206	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Stoltides, I have already referred to this in reply to a timely question in the parliamentary procedure - the issues that concern the employees of this company. As I had assured then, you can be sure that the Ministry of Labour does what it can in the context of its institutional role in order to help resolve the issues that have arisen. Indeed, in relation to what you said earlier, for the reason of the truth, last week and specifically on 11 June, a delegation of workers met with the Minister of Labour, who committed himself to finding the best possible solution for their future, of course always within the framework of the law. The conflict of these workers - the services report 100 thirty-four, you in your question write for 100 thirty-three employees - with this company started in December 2019. ELFE S.A. granted the rental facilities for nineteen years to the company Carval SA, which had been engaged in an activity in the early 1917s. From ELFE ABEE these thirty-four employees were employed under a loan agreement in the company ‘Karvalis SA Fertilizers’ until 31-12-19. According to the information we had from the relevant department of the Kavala Labour Relations Inspectorate, from January 2020 until today, these workers do not provide any work, because they did not sign the new loan contracts when they were asked to do so with the new hired company called ‘Kalas LTD Fertilizers’ that operates the New Karval Carvala plant. In the context of the work dispute made on 2-10-2020 and in the light of the fact that the signature of loan contracts is the right of each worker, the agency has instructed the workers to bring an action to the appropriate courts. In fact, this procedure is initiated by the APRC itself. The law provides that if, after the end of the discussion of the dispute, the applicant submits a solemn declaration with its requirements specified, the Office itself sends a complaint to the competent prosecutor. The issue, as I told you, is not unknown to the Ministry of Labour and his services. Apart from the meeting of the delegation with the Minister, which I mentioned earlier, multiple meetings of labour disputes have been held, as well as compromised tripartite meetings. The last of these took place on 1-6-21, i.e. a few days ago, at the request of the trade union organisation of its employees, OPCWE. The meeting was attended by representatives of the employees, the company "Greek Fertilizers and Chemical ELFE S.A." and the Secretary-General for Work, Anna H.A. In particular, the continued delay in the payment of remuneration due and, secondly, the investigation of the possibility of preventing the planned redundancies and return of workers to work was discussed. A detailed discussion was held between the participants during which all interested parties on openness were placed. Some progress has even been made, especially with regard to the payment of accruals. In particular, the company with its representatives indicated that it has already made a request to the Deposits and Loans Fund for a deposit-guarantee recommendation to pay the remuneration of January and February 2021. He said he would do the same for the wages of March, April and May and he would see to it that they are paid, not later than forty-five days. For its part, the Ministry asked the company to consider the possibility of paying late pay by way of cheques, as it had done in the past, in order for workers to be paid as soon as they were due. My time has passed. I will say in detail in my dentext on the prospects for jobs following the end of the meeting to which I referred earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, while the state appears too dynamic in suppressing popular claims, it appears here that it is impossible for the employer to apply the unequivocally. We believe that, in this case too, it becomes clear that, not only do you have a target for new jobs and well-paid jobs, for which you are constantly discussing, but on the contrary you have left nothing standing, you have hijacked all working relations. It is a recent example of the 'KAVALAS STRENGTH', which were financed with EUR 100 million to pay voluntary redundancies and unbundled with built-in rights. Kavala operates the country's only compost industry. You dragged into our country a sector of enormous importance for agricultural production, closing one after another the factories in Drapetsona and Thessaloniki and driving the latest compost industry in 2009 into the hands of Laurentiadis. The redemption unfolded the employer's plan to restructure the plant. What does a rehabilitation mean for a business group, Minister? The ergonomie, with its hands all the anti-engineering arsenal totalled by industrialists, shipowners, bankers from the anti-grassroots governments that are succeeding on the one hand, on the other, accumulates public debts for gas, PPC, which will be loaded on the backs of our people. EUR 250 million is now estimated. After all, your positions are known as opposition to a maximum scandal that you would be chasing as a government. Now you obviously have other tasks. Now there is another public interest, as was the case with SYRIZA. On the other hand, the firm is setting up parent companies with illegal employment exclusively with three-month, six-month, twelve-month contracts, which are transferred from one participating company to another, which is also a flagrant circumvention of labour rights and European conditions, which you are constantly invoking. Thirty-five workers with an indefinite employment relationship are banned from entering and working, while for many months their payments are delayed as a penalty for extermination because they have proclaimed the self-evident, Minister. Because when they were faced with the employer's plan with the signature of an operational contract with serious reductions in 2012, their lending to a new company in 2015 and immediately after trying to completely abolish the collective agreement with the signature of individual contracts with huge losses on their income, the majority of the employees - as is known - reacted and did not sign individual contracts. Go ahead and mobilize, strike. The employer's answer was vengeance. From 2016 until the end of 2017, the employees were thrown out of the factory. They were confronted with the violence of MATs, and also with the Employers' Bombs. However, they did not put it down, they continued the racing moves along with the judicial battles which they eventually won, so that the employer retreats by signing with everyone privately agreed that the conditions of the previous collective agreement were to be applied. With a new attack now, the employer is trying to avoid the application of the jurisprudence, trying to end all their rights. Employees continue their fair struggle. Camped a few days ago in front of the Ministry of Labour. You welcomed them with the MATs. The determination, however, and solidarity from other unions forced you to accept them. We say that workers' racing experience and not the hope of changing governance or finding a good capitalist can lead them back to victory. They're not alone. The workers, the people of Kavala and of course the Communist Party of Greece are with them. But now, Minister, you must tell us what you will do, or else you will do what you have to do as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stoltides, I confess that some things I didn't hear well. It's because of the mask. I understand that thing. I hope that is not the case. You referred to a number of issues - if I understand correctly - regarding the company. But allow me to refer exclusively to the issue of collective redundancies. On this point, which you are also asking in your question, the last tripartite meeting of the Secretary-General of Labour asked the employer to clarify whether he insists on his decision on redundancies and whether he had exhausted all the softest measures provided for by the law. The company, both in the tripartite and in the memorandum submitted after the completion of the meeting at the request of the Ministry for further explanations, stated that it is no longer in a position to employ the employees concerned as the range of its activities has decreased. The employees, for their part, questioned the correctness of the company's names, claiming that there is still employment for them too. The most important thing is that the Higher Labour Council has so far not been activated to request collective redundancies, because this has not been made by anyone. And if submitted, the Supreme Labour Council must determine whether the legitimate conditions for collective redundancies, as laid down in Law 4472/2017 adopted by SYRIZA, are fulfilled. In accordance with that law, unless the parties have agreed, the AACC, by reasoned decision within 10 days of the date of submission of the practical consultation, shall determine whether the employer's obligations for information and consultation have been complied with and for this purpose the AACC may invite the employees' representatives and the employer concerned and persons with special knowledge on specific technical issues. In accordance with the law, if the AACC considers that the above-mentioned obligations of the employer have been fulfilled, redundancies apply twenty days after the decision was adopted. If not, the AACC shall extend the consultations of the parties or set a time limit for the employer to take the necessary steps to fulfil those obligations. If the AACC finds that the employer's obligations have been fulfilled, the redundancies will unfortunately be in place within twenty days of the decision being adopted and, in any case, the redundancies will apply sixty days after notification of the consultation report. Mr Stoltides, the Ministry of Labour obviously cannot prescribe the outcome of the case within the Higher Council of Labour if a request is made. However - I would like to say this from the Step forward of the House - we are making every effort under the law to ensure that the outcome is as least burdensome as possible for the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the fifth timely question of a second time under number 864/13-6-2021 of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Great concern is causing the farmers of Argolida the problem of incarnation". The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr Fotten Arabaji will answer. Mr. Poulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the farmers of the Prefecture of Argolida are expected to have a large loss of income this year because of the incarnation that occurs both in citrus and olives. In particular, because of mild winter, and then frosts emerged in March and April, and due to very high temperatures then problems have arisen in the fruiting of citrus fruits, but also olive trees, a fact which causes great concern to the farmers in Argolida, who see the labors of another year in danger of being lost. It should be pointed out that the citrus producers of Argolida Prefecture have faced a very difficult situation in the year before. In view of the pandemic and containment measures, demand on both the external and the internal market was considerably reduced so that producers could face major economic difficulties. For their part, producers of olive trees come from two very difficult years due to the very low market prices and high competition with third country markets and the adverse effects of the pandemic. It therefore appears urgently necessary that the Ministry of Rural Development and Food take all the necessary steps to investigate the phenomenon of aggression in Argolida and to compensate producers so that they can meet their financial obligations and continue to deal with their production. I ask you: is the size of the problem of citrus fruit and olive in Argolida prefecture in your knowledge? What action will you take to deal with it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, not only are the problems described in your question in the ELGA, and today in the Step, but we have already made labels on oilseeds and fruit crops. You are aware that, as is apparent from the elements of the branch of ELGA Tripoli under whose jurisdiction the wider region of Argolida is, during the glacier period of March 2021, it was found that these crops were in pre-anthic stage, i.e. at a stage not covered by insurance by ELGA in accordance with the Regulation. You also refer to an increase in temperatures. With regard to the very high temperatures you report, in accordance with the Regulation, the heat is a natural hazard covered by the ELGA if meteorological data are such that it is actually a heater as defined in Article 3(8). During the spring of 2021 in the region of Argolida, these temperatures were not noted, therefore, in accordance with the insurance regulation, there is no need for the hot water ratio, which means that the insurance cover is covered. However, and I would like this to be kept in mind, the ELGA branch is monitoring the development of the damage to citrus and olive-tree crops and, if the damage is established, the loss of production due to these weather phenomena will be activated, the relevant procedures laid down for them to be included in the State aid programme. It is recalled that the conditions of the State Aid Programme are met under specific conditions. What are these terms? The damage to production caused to represent at least 30% of the average yield of the last three years, according to the figures given by the DAG. Official meteorological evidence to confirm the characterisation of these weather effects and of course to be approved by the General Accounting Office of the State. I want you to keep this: It's in ELGA knowledge, it's in valuers' knowledge. The phenomenon is being monitored and all legal opportunities will be exhausted so that people can obtain fair and fair compensation, as provided for in the relevant legislation. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Poula, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I have listened very carefully and I can see that, rather, the Argolina farmers should be disappointed in your answer. I guess they won't see anything. They're probably not getting any backup. Because, as you have explained, because there was no, you say, heat in my area, nothing will be compensated for, you will not compensate for the phenomenon that Argolida presents at the moment. It is a phenomenon that is very well known to the ELGA. The President of ELGA himself had come to Argolida and had seen the situation. And the frost created huge damage, but also the heater that came in the next few days created great damage to the olive trees, as well as to citrus fruits. But let me take you somewhere else. Will the ELGA have the same staff to support these processes that need to be carried out, so that at some point the geopolitics can come to see the damage? Because at the moment the Tripolis ELGA has a huge problem with regard to staff. Another point I would like to make concerns the procedures of the ELGA, the change of the regulation. Is there going to be a change in the next time? For we are waiting for the committee' s decision, which from the previous Minister, Mr Vorides, had met a year ago and we expect to see his report on the change of regulation and, finally, he has not come. Will you make a change in the regulation to cover all these damages resulting from either the frost or the heater? Because the phenomenon of climate change is not something that is temporary. From now on, we will have to face up to these weather effects that will increase the risk to agricultural production. In view of the need to ensure adequate food with modern standards of quality and safety, therefore at high production costs, it is necessary to improve the system of agricultural production insurance, and this requires an increase in the resources available. Your Government has spent about half the time of the expected term of office and it is clear that the New Democracy had not and has no planned preparation for improvements in the system of agricultural production insurance. In conclusion, I would like you to answer whether, at last, these desert farmers will get some help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Poula. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I am very aware of your anxiety, which you are conveying, and it is the anguish of the producers of your constituency who are watching us and listening to us. I would ask, however, that we be precise about what we are talking about. I did not tell you that farmers would not be compensated. I told you what he witnessed - and you said so in your dentistry - the presence of the President of the ELGA, Mr Lykurenju, himself in the region. It testifies to the great, the government’s essential interest in having an opinion and, in particular, its own party. I didn't tell you they wouldn't be compensated. I told you that these losses, once finalised, trigger the State Aid Programme. As you know, the State Aid Programme compensates farmers when the conditions are met. You also said that farmers have received nothing. I would like you to remind me, Mr Colleague, when in time have farmers been repaid by the ELGA for the previous year, as in our own governance? This has been the case in recent years - and we have been talking with proof - originality. The farmers had, unfortunately, learned to pay ELGA compensation, whether they were insurance cover or SOEs long after the injurious event. We have almost paid 2020 - in Argolida, all the damages of 2020 have been repaid in particular - and we are with all the available tools there to pull through. You said about the olives. Mr President, the country has faced the pandemic crisis at all levels, and at the level of the Ministry of Rural Development. Do you not know that about EUR 127 million was granted to the oil producers throughout the country in order to support the loss of income directly linked to the coronary pandemic? In your constituency of Argolida, Mr. Colleague, there were about five thousand applications and people received 5 million euros from measure 21. Wasn't that support? Apparently it was, because the numbers call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u220	We're talking about this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u221	This year? Excuse me, Mr President, this money has been given for the pandemic crisis you are talking about. And I have to answer you on specific occasions. Third, you say if the staff arrives. I do not know if you have followed the communication from the Minister for Rural Development of Lebanon the other day, who gave some directions to the compensation procedure for the 2021 frost and said that ELGA is being subsidised at EUR 3.5 million to meet all administrative costs - overtime travel, temporary staff - in order to find out from the disasters that have occurred throughout the country, as quickly as possible. Also, at the moment in ELGA, there are three hundred sixteen employees, a hundred forty - six with ASAP and a hundred seventy with Article 36. The recruitment has now been carried out, and indeed, Mr Colleague, this deserves to be underlined - with absolute transparency, because it is characteristic that there has been no single objection from the hundreds of seventy-seven recruits of this staff. Three hundred sixteen, then. Three and a half million announced by the Minister at the mandate of the Prime Minister for what further emerges, so you can be sure that there will also be fertile workshops and any compensation will be provided quickly. Now, I do not doubt that the pandemic crisis - we are here feeling it, we face it every day - has caused problems across the production web. But, Mr. Colleague, because this is a National Representation and they're listening, we need to speak with evidence. To the citrus fruits you're talking about - thank God! - the 2020 figures, Mr. Colleague, show a doubling of exports. Lemons and glycolemon in 2019 exports in euro 8 million. In 2020 exports to the euro 15 million. Luckily, we're celebrating for this. Oranges in 2019 exports to euro 112 million in 2020 exports to euro 163 million. Exports worldwide 112m euro oranges and 163m euros in 2020, 8m euro lemons and 15m euros respectively. You realise - and we are really pleased with this - that in 2020 they have recorded - and that is what exports are saying - citrus fruits are the two-digit export growth rate. The citrus fruits have recorded an increase. So we are here with justice, with proportionality, with eyes and ears open, in order to cover, according to the law, and by depleting the possibilities, all those who are affected fairly and proportionately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the first question under number 6329-27-4-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance of Demetrios (Takis) Charitou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Will producers be compensated for the damage caused to the olive groves of Rhodope.' And this question will be answered by the Secretary-General, Mr Arabajis. Mr. Haritto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. You will know that the trees have suffered very great damage in Rhodope because of the frost mainly in the first ten days of April. I refer to tens of thousands of acres of cherries, olives, pomegranate and others. Indeed, with the assessments of the geotechnics and processors that collect the product, the reduction in production, for example in cherries, will exceed 70% of the corresponding year's production, and the 30% collected, due to hailfall and prolonged rainfall, is not particularly marketable and exportable. You will be aware, Minister, that producers have already taken on the financial burden of the costs of all the cultivation operations, the nutritional and plant protection activities that are particularly high. It is justifiable, therefore, that they are in despair because they are sure that their income will be dramatically reduced because they are small producers and the crops are their only agricultural activity. Very recently, the Minister said that all those affected would be fairly compensated. While you initially promised the producers that they would be compensated by 100% of the damage they suffered, you are now turning them, and you have said that the compensation will be reduced to 100% as a percentage of the insured value. Promise that you will modify the ELGA regulation to incorporate the damages caused at the stage before blossoming on all trees. Will you include, Minister, the olive trees? Because it's about us directly as an area. The Minister promises an advance of 40% to the affected producers. In other words, it promises 155m euros that may be covered by the ELGA. But are you not telling us what the remaining 235 million euros are for, through what financial instrument will you cover them? With what specific payment schedule? In order for the producers affected to know. Unless what you say is easy, the known promises. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I am telling you this because a decision to approve by the European Commission is not about funding from the crisis reserve, such as the one we had in the ice-cream reserve. So, I guess you're talking about state aid. So I ask you, Minister, whether you will cover 100% of the damage caused, if you will incorporate all the crops affected and with what financial instruments you will cover the entire amount of compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u224	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, let us make things clear and give Caesar the Caesar Caesaree. Away from this government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development in 2019, so-called air words. Air words have spread others. I don't want to enter party controversy because I'm interested in the essence. We have never promised from the moment we took over the country's governance something that we did not do. Was the financing of ELGA for the first time after ten years by the Ministry of Finance in order to compensate farmers as soon as possible for damages last year? On your day, Mr President, we had a delay of one and a half and a half years for the damages, these insurance cute ELGAs. We're not talking about anything else. Was it or was it not in the days of this governance that has been triggered by the advance payment of compensation? The first example is 'January', for example - you have said so very well. You refer to the press release of the Minister, Mr Lebanese, who said that 'yes, with the decision of the Prime Minister, the frost 2021 as regards the insurance losses covered by the ELGA will receive an advance of 40% on the findings of estimated losses by the end of July and their repayment will run as soon as possible. It has also been said, Mr President, that for late trees - masturbations, cherry trees you have there, and apples - it will also come on a legislative initiative, although not covered for the initial stage - I imagine you will vote for it - which will be included in the ELGA regulation and, therefore, they will be compensated by an advance of 40% and 100% of the insured value. Scripta manent. This says this specific press release: 100% of the insured value. Bring me another statement to see her here, to testify to her in the Minutes, which says otherwise. So for Rhodope, to date, twenty - six announcements have been made, a hundred sixty - five statements of damage to almonds, porks, nectarines, covered by ELGA. The estimates are now complete at the time when we are talking with the exception of kiwi, for which estimates will be made after the buckling of the fruits. The payment is not expected, as I have said, to be made as soon as possible. In addition, however, statements have been made for about six and a half thousand acres so far relating to late cherry varieties. These people will be compensated, and they will receive an advance of 40%. I'll tell the rest in my denture, if there's any need for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Haritou, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u227	I have heard you, in fact, with great attention, Minister, and the truth is, of course, that my concern, unfortunately, has been strengthened. I say this because you have also disproved that the expectations you have cultivated - I say to you, the Minister has said so publicly - the presence of the Prime Minister, in fact, that producers will be compensated for the actual damage they have suffered has been disproved. And, indeed, we are talking about our region for small farmers who will be very difficult to continue their farming activities on a sustainable basis. Secondly, the same I did not hear you say, since the Minister said that the trees affected and located in the pre-anthic stage would be included. Will the olive trees affected in the region be included? Yes or no? I am afraid you said that you have disproved this expectation that exists today in the producers. Answer you didn't give me. Thirdly, and the most crucial, Minister, it is the question of how the resources will be secured to compensate all those you promise. It needs clarification. I will ask you: Do you have an approval, a decision of the European Commission on financing, or have you just made a request? As you know, in order to make a financing decision by the European Commission, a dossier is required, Madam Minister, to be submitted with reference to areas, crops, climate and other elements needed. So I ask you: have you submitted a dossier to the European Commission? It's been over two months. Otherwise, you're talking about state aid. And if I am judging by what the Minister said about numbers that are currently over 400 million euros, you obviously have to explain to us whether there are any decisions for all of them or simply say easy words or say that you will bring amendments or provisions to this House. I remind you that in the past you have brought, as in the 'January', and I fear that judging by how you administer them, you are asking for aid from producers, you are probably confirming the position not to give you a white check at that time. I therefore say - and I close - that I am waiting for the specific crops in the region to be given a concrete commitment to whether they will actually be included in order to compensate the producers affected. I understand that you also invoke a written response that you have given me the ELGA regulation, but at the end of the day, Minister, a year and a half you have been holding the competition for the proportionate studies of ELGA and signed it, since all you have changed is the transfer. So you had him ready from the previous government in your office. You have taken a year and a half to announce it to ratify it, and obviously you realise that it is not the rhythms and speeds at which you are moving. If at these speeds, at the same time, you go ahead with drawing up the National Strategic Plan and approving rural development, making use of the resources of the Recovery Fund - even those few which you have received - if at the same rate and speeds you go ahead and implementing the AAA, then, Minister, we will lose the train again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u228	In conclusion, Mr Colleague, you have gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u229	I shall conclude, Mr President. Rhodope is an especially rural area and needs these resources and cannot wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u230	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, I also come from an extreme region, and I can very well understand the problems and problems faced by farmers, when they actually live - and thank them for that - in remote areas. I asked you in my prototype on what you place with a lot of certainty to bring me a piece of paper. You say that the Minister was clearly disproved and I read: "Athens, June 16th, Spilios Lebanese for frosts, an advance of 40% of the losses: an advance of 40% of the estimated losses will be provided with the amount of about 155 million euros. We have already submitted a request to the European Commission for state aid to the ELGA following the political approval we received from the Council of Ministers of the European Union in May. All allowances will be paid after the assessment procedure has been completed. All damages to the ice-cream will be covered, in accordance with the ELGA regulation, at 100% of the insured value." What else do you think we're talking about? You say it differently. 100% of the insured value! You've been paying for 100% of your days? Oh, no. Did you ever make an advance on your day? Oh, no. Did you, in your days, give ELGA EUR 35 million, as provided for by the relevant article of the Regulation, to state grant? Oh, no. Did you send any dossiers to the European Commission to be approved? Oh, no. We, Mr Colleagues, who, unfortunately, had to deal with the pandemic crisis, have sent a number of files to the European Commission on COVID measures, Mr Colleague, who have come and adopted self-confidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u232	For the frost?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u233	Obviously, there had been a good preparation, so obviously we activated the entire valuable service force of the Ministry, so that it could also make correct files and documented, and in the end, the producers would be paid. What is your concern about the EUR 155 million now? Are you concerned about being given? You have not told us, will you now vote on the amendment that we will bring about what is for the initial stage, so that these people can be compensated?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u234	Bring her, let's see her, and here we are!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u235	Of course we will, because we are not air words, Mr Colleague! And because the Minister raised the issue of ice-cream in the European Union, I would of course remind him - and I am sure Mr Arachovitis, the former Minister present - that we were going to the Council of Ministers. And when you go to the Council of Ministers, you put the frost, like other things, because you're here! And the notion is about the absence of the Greek government at the Ministry of Rural Development in the "terrestrial years" of SYRIZA! As far as olive groves and flows are concerned, the relevant estimates have been made, as you know, and the mechanism of State aid is to be activated. And I would like to ask, here I close: the mechanisms of State aid 2017. It passed in 2017, passed in 2018, passed in 2019 and this government came to pay the 2017 Municipalities in the middle of COVID. This is about efficiency and compliance with commitments. And when the Prime Minister comes out, Mr. Colleague, and says that they will be given, it means that 40% will be given, what was given to the 'January'. And I do not imagine that you will question the effectiveness of the 'January' mechanism. They will be given, just as they have been written and predicted. Because when the government officials open their mouths and, above all, the Prime Minister, they are placed counted for what they know will be followed up to an antenna or else to the end. So stay quiet. They'll be compensated. In fact, we expect you to vote on this amendment already...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u236	Bring it first, Minister, and here we are!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u237	Obviously, we'll bring it in, Mr. Comrade. On June 16th, the announcement came out. The legislative work of this government is rich! Legislative work is rich, especially in the Ministry of Rural Development. Three laws barely brought four and a half years and we've already brought four bills. So farmers can be quiet that in spite of all the difficult circumstances, which I would like to stress, which prevail not only in our country, but in the world, there is a government and a leadership that listens to them and exhausts all possibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u238	We continue with the third with number 5888/12-4-2021 question of the circle of petitions - Questions Member of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Saraciotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Excessive increase in the cost of production for farmers in Regional Unity (EPU) Photidas and the whole of the country". Here, Mr Sarakiotis, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a multitude of publications in the media which specialise and discuss the issues of the primary sector hosts many testimony from professional farmers and farmers and speak of an over-increasing increase in production costs, due to huge increases in animal feed, with the highest rates recorded in basic species such as corn and soya. As you know, this also brings together a number of other products which are absolutely necessary for the production process. In support of this, I will give a witness from a farmer who said that on 30 December he was buying soybeans against the sum of 47.5 cents a kilo, and only a month later, on 25 January this year, he did so against the sum of 51 cents. This, when only a few months ago, was buying this particular product for 34 minutes. From 34 minutes, I mean, we went to 51 minutes. As you well know, the cost of feedingstuffs represents over 60% of the total cost of production of agricultural holdings and an increase of 20%, 30% or more in animal feed leads with mathematical accuracy to an economic deadlock and asphyxiation of our country's farmers. In addition, there is evidence of the president of a fodder club in the Fthiotida region that the same significant increases in products such as corn, barley and sunflower are observed in Fthiotida. In fact, soybeans report an increase of EUR 0,15 and 0.20 from January to today. The fact of the excessive and unbearable increase in the cost of production and of the cost of feedingstuffs had been identified in time by the SYRIZA Members with a question tabled by 22 January of this year. In the reply, the Ministry stated that, where necessary, appropriate intervention is available. It will intervene, it says, decisively and effectively with targeted action. Because, Minister, following the extension of these indicative references, it is clear that the Ministry must take initiatives and intervene to control the harmful increase in animal feed prices, particularly in the midst of a pandemic crisis. There is now a clear need for immediate intervention to support the country's livestock holdings. That is why I ask you what the decisive and essential things have been to date, as you say, are, as you say, the interventions and the targeted measures to put back on the huge increase in animal feed, how you intend today to act and intervene in order to control and deal with the phenomenon of excessive and continuing increase in animal feed and what initiatives you will take to support the country's farmers' financial support and also the Fthiotis County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u240	Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer Mr Sarakiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Colleague, I'll start in proceedings. You say - and you mention it in your written question - that the Minister's reply states that there is appropriate intervention, where necessary. So you write and say: 'Where is this intervention?' Let's say what the Minister's answer says, because half of you brought in, and you know from half, when we do modulate, what can be drawn as a conclusion. So let's go see what the Minister said. He said: ‘In any case, the producer price for livestock products such as meat and milk should be understood that both on the Greek and European markets are freely shaped on the basis of supply and demand and there is no possibility of State intervention in its determination. However..." - you took it out of the question - '... control of the functioning of healthy competition on the market, the phenomena of shame, but also any harmonious practices of the Competition Committee, are under the supervision of the Ministry of Rural Development and, where necessary, appropriate intervention'. What does he mean? The Independent Authority - so as not to open discussions now on what has happened in the past four and a half years with the Independent Authorities - is doing its work independently and is intervening where it judges, on the basis of findings and any stimuli it has. Of course, once a conclusion is reached, the leadership of each ministry to which it relates can take measures, such as the legislation on unfair commercial practices. Obviously, this legislation, so the intervention you are saying - we are talking about unfair political practices that were adopted some time ago - is just legislative intervention in a market problem, as this is reflected and documented by the independent authorities. Now, with your question, Mr. Colleague, you are really squeezing open doors. I mean that really this particular issue, which is not only in our country, but is global, is not a point of political and party controversy. It is true that in the second half of 2020 there is a huge increase in the prices of raw materials, the so-called 'commodities', including agricultural products, and in this case products used as feed. Genetic cause of this world - I repeat - is pandemic. As long as pandemic disappears and the planet returns to normality, it is true that demand is growing. At the same time, post-sale costs have increased, also because of the pandemic with the problems created by COVID in food chains. In this environment, increasing demand from China is of particular importance. As far as maize is concerned, for example, which gives tuna in total to the so-called 'commodities' of agriculture and, of course, to animal feed, it is an important crop - not to forget that - which, at plant production level, is the increase that is being made by farmers who are also plant production. Therefore, China increased its imports by four times, resulting in the international price double over the last year. The supply obviously cannot meet demand at the same speed and, of course, the cultivation of maize is increased this year, so production is expected to increase. However, when we have to deal with a planet with the effects of climate change, no one can discount anything in the agricultural sector, as you know, as there are already very serious drought phenomena that have a negative effect on maize production. And precisely these periods, such as the ones I described, are making the main structural weakness of Greek stockfarming stronger. And what is that weakness, Mr. Comrade? The unwanted percentage of self-sufficiency in feed. What did we do in 2014 when we signed the dossier for the new programming period, which was managed by your government in many cases? We changed the mixture of plant and animal production to better for animal production and put a number of aids, so-called 'associated aid' to so-called 'animal products', such as native, clover, hop, hops, barley. Why did we do that, Mr. Comrade? First of all, we did so to give the producers money, but also to push them into the so-called'mixed-direct holdings'. It was really a very big problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u242	Madam Minister, you'll tell your dentistry as well. Time to keep him, with very little derogation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u243	I shall conclude, Mr President. And in the money that we will manage the new programming period from the Recovery Fund - there is the State Secretary in charge - we will really look at exhausting the incentives to boost livestock farming, which gives added value to the agricultural sector, and to the two-way farms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u245	Madam Minister, you referred to a model. And I wanted to ask you: is the time when the 'HIGH COUNT' on 22-12019 writes 'the most expensive feed in the European Union are paid for by Greek farmers' are modulated? When the ‘GREENCARGE’ on 5 February 2021 states ‘The huge increases in animal feed are modulating’? What does the post say? ‘Blue colours show in the ‘GREENHACH’ the situation in livestock farming producers and operators active in the sector, due to the enormous increases in animal feed prices, together with the incomplete exceptional financial aid to counteract the consequences of the pandemic’. Mr. Bajrataris, President of the Fodder Association of the Municipality of Tirnavos, says: 'Elevations in animal feed have completely escaped and no one will be able to cope with the needs of the plant in a short time'. It also mentions products that have been increased. Mr Diopoulos from the coordination of eastern Macedonia - Thrace says: 'This year's prices are completely out of line with feed prices'. Montaz! ‘AGRONEWS’, on 31-1-2021, another montage: ‘The increase in feed prices is a burden on farmers’. THE HIGH COUNTRY at 3-2-2021: ‘Foodstuffs: increased prices. Rapid increases in prices in feed have brought farmers to the unprecedented. "The Rally Rise on Stock Exchanges... etc. has led to an increase in the price of more than 30% in corn and soybean, having raised production costs to unthinkable levels. Revaluations every week, the units fall apart. A great deal of profit for all except farmers." "HUMAN COUNTRY", montage! Another post, by "GREATY" this time: "EK: Lebanese indifference for farmers' problems". The President of the PES: "There is an indifference from the PESF to the problems of farmers. We have a major economic problem in the sector due to the increase in prices in feed by 40% this year." Another motage! Many models in the newspapers, the sites, in all the instruments dealing with rural world issues, have been designed in the statements of farmers' representatives, very montage has fallen! From that point on, I knew you wouldn't do anything. I will transfer to my compatriots that it is the fault of climate change and China. This is the Ministry's answer for increases in animal feed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr. Sarakiotis. Now the Minister has the floor for her own denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u247	Well, my colleague, first of all, I have a particular sensitivity to freelance and I have not referred to any modeling that may have been carried out by forms, electronics or other media, which you have read in your secondary language. I have mentioned the fact that you have made your question a montage. That's what I said to put things in order. I also said that the increase in the price of feedingstuffs is not a model. I said it was a phenomenon and a real, national and global problem. So we, Mr Sarakiotis, because you want to exacerbate things nowadays, the farmers and the pandemic crisis in the present... You know what citizens say, "Way and Woe," if it was someone else, that is. The milk, Mr. Sarakiotis, do you remember how much he did on your day? It did 0.78 minutes, 0.80 minutes at most.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u248	Do you have anything to say about animal feedingstuffs?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u249	Do you remember that farmers were slaughtering their livestock, unable to meet their obligations? What were these obligations, Mr. Saraciotis? The launching of tax obligations: We came and did 9% for income up to 10,000 euros, tax-free for each child. The dismantling of insurance contributions: The first measures adopted by that government were the reduction in insurance contributions as promised. Farmers and farmers did not pay a trade fee, did not pay a solidarity levy, a reduction in the rate of taxation on collective schemes and a number of other measures which, in the long term and in the medium term, have an impact. Is it or is it not in our day when the price of sheep and goat milk reached almost EUR 1 and in some regions overrun it? Why did that happen, Mr. Comrade? Why did the sun suddenly come backwards? Of course not. Because there was a expressed political will with legislative texts and with repressive action. I would remind you that for the first time a fine of EUR 260,000 with a limit of EUR 30 000 in a dairy industry, which is alleged to falsify the Greek 'golden', feta, putting cow's milk. The strong legislative arsenal that criminalised the crime of Hellenism and did so by imprisonment, strict controls, fines which for the first time enter, all created, together with tax and insurance regulations, a regime more favourable to farmers and the entire chain of value and production. And that, Mr Colleague, is undeniable. So we are working in this direction, we support every sector that has been affected by COVID documented, documented, that the dossiers go to the European Commission, that the budget promised by the Prime Minister is being paid and implemented, that a lot of money has been given from the rest of the rural development programme and the PSC to tackle the crises. These are the tools that, I repeat, we are exhausted to deal with the phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Minister. We are now moving to the eighth under number 834/2-2021 a timely question for a second question from the Member of the Kefalonia of the New Democracy. Panagia Kapatos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Support measures for regional unity (ICT) producers affected by the quartzfall of 15 May 2021". The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Ioannis Economou. I ask both the questions and the honourable Members to be on the reasonable limit of time. Mr. Cappato, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you well know, on Saturday, May 15, 2021, in much of the Regional Unit of Kefalonia there was a severe storm, which, according to the site, turned into a heavy quartzing, especially in areas of the Municipalities of Argostoli and Lixouri. The strong weather phenomena have resulted in the destruction of a series of crops with the most serious effect of being traced to vines and olive trees. The size of this catastrophe becomes particularly apparent in the Omals region, the mainly wine-growing region of Kefalonia. The hailstorms destroyed robotic vineyards, which is the variety with the largest production dynamics in Kefalonia, which is cultivated only in Kefalonia. It is only enough to mention the assessment of the Cooperative of Robola Kefalonia Producers for a disaster of about 70% of this year's production, in order to understand the extent of the catastrophe. At the same time, young calls that had planted in recent years are expected to negatively affect the following years, as the quartz size has caused damage, not only to the fruit, but also to the vines themselves. Finally, significant disasters were also caused in crops, in areas of the Municipality of Lixouri, in vegetables, olive trees and vineyards. My question therefore concerns the actions you have taken so that the assessment of disasters in production can be completed in a timely manner. Finally, with regard to the compensation of our producers, can you specify its payment schedule to the producers in the Kefalonia Regional Unit affected by hailing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u252	I, too, thank Mr Cappato and the consistency of time. Mr Economou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, it is true that the weather this year was not our ally. Climate change has tasted farms and agricultural products very badly. The purpose of our Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as we have repeatedly demonstrated, and therefore all the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, is in every way possible to stand on the side of our producers where they are affected. We will do the same for the producers in Kefalonia. It is true that from the first moment, not only through parliamentary control now, but from the first moment of the disaster, you have personally been using your insults toward the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, you have made clear the extent of the disaster, but also the need to take measures to support producers, but also the people there. Our aim is therefore that the crops affected by the hails of 15 May should be compensated in good time. In the case of damage to crops in Kefalonia, particularly to vines, but also to summer horticulture and cereals and to a few other, scattered, tree crops, the necessary labelling has been carried out so far. There have been twenty-five announcements and there have been two hundred fifty-five statements of damage on the part of producers, six hundred eighty-eight parcels. The work of assessments has begun since June 10th and is expected to be completed by mid-July 2021, according to the data of the branch of Patras. Subsequently, the assessments, carried out under the rules of agricultural science of the Plant Production Safety Regulation, will take their course. We give the assessors the instructions to be objective, fair, quick. And upon completion of the product harvest assessment process and the finalisation of the findings and the processing of data from the IACC file, the compensation will be paid to the producers who have submitted the corresponding declarations. I would like to point out that, as we have shown in the past, in this case compensation is paid in the harvest period, approximately, that when people waited for money to be taken back from its disposal or shortly after that, which brings us to a very great difference - and the producers know that - as compared to what happened in the past when ELGA compensated for the damage of the previous year a year and a half, or possibly even longer, after that. With regard to the labelling you have made of the new climates planted in recent years, according to the elements of the branch of ELGA Patras, from the labels carried out in quarantine, these damages were indeed recorded in plant plant plantations. For these damages, the ELGA will carry out further checks and, if the conditions are met, they will be included in the State Aid Programme and strengthened through the State Budget. The main condition for integrating damage is loss of production from 30% to over. As you mentioned in your speech and you have already informed us long ago, the damage is much greater. On this basis, following the completion of the controls and the report of the DAG, action will be taken quickly so that these producers and this category are included in the financial instrument of State aid, with the difference that, as in the rest of the year, we will run faster, we will compensate ELGA and this category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Cappato, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to give you a more general debate on the question which I have asked before. Kefalonia, as you know, and Ithaca, apart from tourist destination, apart from tourist island, has a very important primary sector. Our primary sector is based on livestock farming in a very large part, but also on a very large part on agriculture. As in all the Ionian Islands we have hundreds of acres of olive trees. However, we also have particular emphasis and development in recent years on vineyards. And further after the vineyards, we have the winemaking. We recently have a link between the winemakers that was established in Kefalonia. This shows the evolution of the winery on the island of Kefalonia. Since Kefalonia is an island, and even is a mountainous island with a very high mountain - 1.630 meters is Aino -, this is a reason why all the weather phenomena created in the Mediterranean were first targeted, as the first pass of Kefalonia. Given that we have the expansion of climate change phenomena, and given that we have been seeing continuous disasters in animal and plant production in recent years, whether these are from 'January' or less disasters, but with great intensity and impact on the production of our islands, the question I would like to ask you is: what does your Ministry think about controls and compensation to protect growers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u256	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u257	Mr Colleague, you have raised a very important issue. One thing is when disasters happen to be next to the citizens, to the farmers, to those who are affected and to compensate them in good time and fair time. A second is, following the frequency and acidity of phenomena, with climate change that is testing us too bad not only this year - especially this year - but also the previous ones, planning measures and tools that can provide additional support and better prevention and protection for producers. In addition, you have made something more interesting. Our islands, Kefalonia, Ithaca, apart from the obvious, what they are known all over the world, namely the beauty and tourist dynamics they have, also have potential in terms of development from the primary sector. There's the wine. There are the olive groves. There's a strong livestock farm. In other words, there is the background, so that through policies and instruments we can develop and bring even more forward to the fore, with regard to the local economy and, more generally, to the primary sector with the edge of the spear, the crops and the activities you have mentioned. Within the framework of our policy, in the context of the discussion and implementation of the programmes and the new CFP for the next period, measures and financial instruments that respond to the needs of both growers and people involved with the primary sector in our islands are included. Funding tools that may give further protection of compensation or support in the event of extreme weather events that we will discuss and see how pilots can implement with cooperatives throughout the country, investment tools that will protect against hail, from ice, from low temperatures, methods and ways so that farms and in Kefalonia and in Ithaca, but also throughout the country, exploiting technology on the one hand, the institutional framework that we are modifying and enriching on the other, and financial tools that we have in our hands from the AAS and from the Recovery Fund can be made more resilient, in particular through the durability of those that test us and deprive us of the dynamic, extroverting and competitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u258	Thank you too, Minister. We move on to the thirteenth third, with number 835/2-6-2021, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Dionysia - Theodoras Agerinopoulou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: ‘Signature assessments of crop losses in Varda from the quartzfall of 15 May 2021’. Mrs Agrinopoulou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I would like to thank you very much for your availability to Parliament, and before Parliament, for an issue that touches many of our fellow citizens in the Municipality of Andravidis Kyllini and especially in the region of Budrasia, but also throughout the rural world of the Regional Unit of Elia and as we have heard from the Regional Unit of Kefalonia, as Mr Cappatos has said. I would first like to congratulate you on the fact that the government has indeed taken over the questions of farmers with particular understanding and strong will to resolve the issues they are facing. We see that by means of coordinated action you are on the side of the farmers and you are therefore informing the farmers in good time about the procedure and timetables for their compensation. Your concern is particularly important for Elias, because in recent years - not only recently - in Varda, but in our prefecture, which is also a prefecture with a significant contribution to agricultural production in our country, exceptional weather phenomena often occur which affect our agricultural production, including due to the impact of pre-civil change. The sharp quartzfall of Saturday, May 15, 2021 caused extensive damage to crops, such as early watermelon and strawberry in the region of Budrasia, but since then, since then, it has already caused on June 9th and June 15th and other natural disasters in the region, such as hail in the Aegis of the Municipality of Ilida, as well as a strong bath and new quartz in grape crops and in vines, olive trees and trees, including in the communes of Oleni, Myrtia, Catakolos, Brochica, Alepochori, Dania, Cardamas, Sophia, Koumani, Brinna, Helidon, Cayconia, i.e. three municipalities, Pyrgos, Ancient Olympia and Elida. We realise that preventive measures should be taken to address and adapt to the new difficult conditions, to the effects of climate change created for all of Greece and especially for Elias. Of course, this is a matter of food security, but also of the survival of our farmers. I would invite you to come to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to discuss this broader issue on the practice, as it is necessary to send the correspondents of the ELGA Regional Office to check the damage. Since, as we know, any delay in counting as long as it is removed from the point of injury does not allow for a representative record of the damage, I would like to ask you what action the Ministry has already taken or what action it is going to take in this registration? Secondly, if time allows us to tell us whether the Ministry will take any measures and to compensate farmers, especially the growers of the fall potatoes due to the COVID -19 pandemic. If there is time, we should also raise this second issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u260	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that Elijah is one of the prefectures that has been tested very badly by quartzing and even by dynamic crops, of which they depend on their income and survival hundreds - may even more - people, families living from it. It also imposes on us this feature as it is everywhere in the rest of the country. Quickly, directly, efficiently - with reflexes that he has shown in recent years - he stands on the side of the farmers and does what he has shown he knows to do well over the past two years: to pay fair and reliable compensation in time. This is a valuable relationship of confidence that we have built with the productive potential of the country, with the Greek farmers, with the Greeks working in the primary sector. For us it is a valuable chapter that we want to preserve. Every time we prepare harder, every time things make it difficult to preserve this credibility so that people can trust that it will be compensated in time and quickly and to plan its activities in this way. As I said before about the problems that were created in Kefalonia, there is also the development of the moves concerning Elias concerning the damage to summer horticulture mainly in watermelons and melons, as you rightly described, but also in potatoes and strawberries in the wider area of northern Elias. The necessary markings from ELGA's geotechnical services have been carried out quite quickly, and are being completed. Fifteen announcements have been made and eighty-seven statements of damage have been lodged. As we have the data from the EAGF branch in Elia, in order to be able to respond to its mission, it has been directed directly and with additional geotechnical staff for the timely conduct of assessments. At this time in addition to geotechnic staff, i.e. thirty people, he has been staffed with an additional twenty-eight geotechnics. It is a long range of areas that have been affected, as you have said in your question. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the staff to cope with this mission. Priority has been given to sensitive crops, such as watermelons and continues now with the rest. The registration of crops is expected to be completed at about the end of the month. As in the case of Kefalonia, we will follow the procedure that we know with the necessary communication of the findings after processing the IACS data in order to provide compensation to people. I would also like to stress here that the producers of your prefecture who you represent, the problems of which are often densely disturbing the government creatively, that the notified difference in relation to the past is that we are making all those efforts required by the first stage, that is, the stage, the announcements and even the processing of statements, so that people get their money as quickly as possible. The damage can damage production, but does not suspend the need for cultivation. Where there is no revenue in a difficult period, this becomes even more demanding in order to allow any growing activity to continue. So our aim is as soon as possible to be able to compensate against the past that took much longer. I will return to my dentext on the rest of the issues you have raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u262	Mrs Agrinopoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for your detailed and very informative response to all the measures for the protection and enhancement of farmers against extreme weather phenomena and especially to frosts. It shows the way to substantial aid and support for farmers, having taken all the necessary steps, from what we understand, from the Ministry to be approved by both the European Commission and the State aid to the ELGA and all the support that the Ministry of Rural Development needs in Greece to be able to respond to the extraordinary conditions created by climate change on this vulnerable side of the Mediterranean. So we see that no producer of Elijah who was affected will remain without compensation, and even the damages to the crops that were in the pre-anthic stage will be compensated. Undoubtedly, with your initiatives, the government is practically showing its support for the rural world. You are supporting our farmers and our producers and it is particularly important that these losses are also covered at 100% of the insured value since this is reflected in the registration. Furthermore, even within them unprecedented health conditions of a pandemic, the government immediately shared, as I would like to remind you, that it was the government and the vindication of the bad weather 'Janus'. All farmers recognized that. Nevertheless, because we have multiple incidents both because of natural disasters and because of the COVID pandemic, it would be very useful to tell us two things more about the issue we are putting about the schedule of compensation and if it is your intention to start compensation for the producers of Elias, for the crops of the autumn potato due to COVID -19. Otherwise we can discuss it on a next theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u264	We too thank Mrs Agrinopoulos and the consistency in time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin by referring to compensation for the cultivation of the autumn and seasonal potatoes as far as damage is concerned, and then we shall go to COVID. In implantation carried out at the end of the year these potatoes must be declared as sprinklers to the ELGA for their insurance coverage. The ELGA for any damage caused to potato crops in 2020 by the causes covered by its regulation has completed the relevant compensation to the insurers, of course. In particular, for the autumn crop potatoes 2020 from covered losses, declarations concerning an area of approximately eight hundred hectares were submitted, which was assessed and paid for the compensation concerned. Also, some four thousand two hundred and twenty - four applications were reported in the ELGA system. As far as COVID is concerned, I would like to inform you that this decision has already been signed by the two co-legislative ministries, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and of course the Ministry of Finance, has been published in the FAO on 21 May which establishes a state aid scheme in the form of direct natural aid in the form of direct payments in the areas of summer and autumn potatoes. The aid is set at EUR 205 per acre. The OPECE platform is still open to applicants until Friday, July 2, 2021, and will then, of course, proceed to the payment of compensation. I now want, on the occasion of your own question, to close two things, Mr President. First of all, it is useful to realise that climate change is no longer a temporary and sudden thing, but it seems to have come to stay, which means that, apart from the mission of compensation, we must always be at the side of those affected, plan and find measures that will shield our producers even more. It is worth saying that the anti-grass protection measure financed by the AAS is still open without the interest or demand that one would expect to have given rise to developments in recent years. It is a measure that subsidises anti-hailing armour at a height of 80% by asking the producer for the remaining 20%. It was true that there was a difficulty in financing, because we are talking about expensive investments. We have done various operations with financial tools to support producers who can now with a new perspective and philosophy go to this measure. In the light of your question, ladies and gentlemen, I call on producers to see it with even greater interest because it is a measure which can offer protection against damage and damage which, however quickly we compensate, no matter how well we try to exhaust whatever potential we have, badly lying, is not profit. And the second thing I want to say is that we have proved with 'January', with 'Medea', with the frosts, with the hailing that in difficult issues within budgetary limits that are not unlimited or endless, telling the truth to producers with estimates of timely and fairness we stand on their side. Very recently, I think the Minister for Rural Development and Food yesterday, Mr Lebanese, announced a roadmap of compensation, the main points of which were that 40% of those affected by the frost will be paid. The compensation will be at 100%. All the necessary measures and legislative changes will be taken so that the crops that are not part of the ELGA regulation are not included in the necessary compensation and that the Agency is also served with people, but also with money in order to take the necessary measures in good time and time. It is the sign of writing that we are giving that in difficult times budgetaryly and in conditions that have not helped from the point of view of the weather we are practically on the side of the Greek producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u266	We continue with the fifth under No 2551/10-12-2020 question of the petitions by SYRIZA MP Laconia - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Institution of a labelling system for food products with marks such as Nutri - Score'. Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that it has been discussed in the European Union since 2009, and indeed there is in Article 4 of Regulation 1924/2006 the adoption of a food labelling system based on their functionality, nutritional value or the risks they may have. At the same time, however, some Member States are considering or even adopting a simplified food labelling system which categorizes foods with a colour classification and highlights them on the basis of various criteria. It is the Nutri - Score system, which gives a nutritional label to the front of the packaging and is based on a five-colour scale. The main characteristics it adopts are calories, are the fats of the food, are saturated fat, salt, food sugar, but without assessing - and here is the risk - the nutritional profile of the product. At first there was a great risk that they would be included in this system and olive oil and feta - because of salt or feta - and a number of other cheese products because of fats, without a distinction being made if PDO - PGI products or traditional products. Their struggles were expressed on the Greek side and the Greek Scientific Society of Encyclopedias, which has done a very good intervention since the beginning and the Union of European Regions for the products of origin, leading the region of Crete. Parliament recently adopted an amendment which excludes the obligation to label PDO and PGI products and mono-systemic products. However, this development is not satisfactory for the following reasons. The Mediterranean diet that combines more than one component is not covered. Secondly, this system is still optional, so some Member States may proceed to such an independent system whether it exists or is the way the amendment is formulated. I would therefore like you to tell us what the Ministry's attitude so far is and whether it has assessed the further risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u268	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. What is being discussed in the Greek Parliament is important, but it is true that there are issues that are far from the public debate and when they come to the Greek Parliament are twice as important and it is worth giving them perhaps more time than is provided for in parliamentary control. One of the main advantages of the primary sector in our country is, without doubt, the identity of our products, products produced by land, seas, Greek livestock. Identity identified by environmental conditions, production processes and the high nutritional value of our final products. Our products have all those comparative advantages that can turn them into stable protagonists in the agro-food scene. And this is not a self-contained finding, it is a conclusion based on solid scientific data, which is the core of European regulations on consumer protection and on food safety. It is based on rich research data based on the value of the Mediterranean food. Let me say, it is also based on an age-old tradition which has highlighted the value of food such as honey, olive oil, milk in support of human organism functions. At the same time, as you rightly described, we are living at a time when the average consumer throughout the European Union is being trained to seek food of high nutritional value and to seek this information on labels. The big question is whether it is being trained to make a substantial search, and whether it has the ability to interpret this information properly and to use it as necessary, because otherwise it will either be faced with the need to make mathematical calculations and reductions to make it clear either that it is faced with over-simplified interpretations that it will be forced to "swap". In such a environment, the aim for our country is twofold. On the one hand, we have every reason to seek transparency in information and information for the reasons I have just said. On the other hand, our aim is to shield the undisputed nutritional value of our products against oversimplified and distorted models. The European Union has therefore launched an extensive debate - as you have described - with all the Member States in order to find ways of presenting this information in the most plausible and comprehensible way. It seeks the most dominant system, i.e. labelling. And one of the proposals is Nutri - Score with the characteristics you mentioned, namely nutrition labelling with a five-coloured and five-writing system. This system is supposed to reflect the nutritional value of the product through an algorithm of seven nutritional parameters of which four have a negative load and three have a positive effect. Obviously, this model also sends messages that are legible to the consumer. A color or letter is easier to understand than to bring up grams based on different sizes. But the aim of food labelling - as I think you agree, Mr President - is not communication, but is the essential information about the essential nutritional value of each product. A characteristic example is that based on Nutri - Score a sugar-free refreshment may appear to have a higher nutritional value than olive oil. This and many other paradoxes have led the European Union to ask the EFSA, the competent food safety authority, to reassess the way the food profile is created and, therefore, what is being projected. That is why there is no permanent authorization at all. Everything's practical. The debate is to adopt a common framework in the last quarter of 2022. Indeed, on the basis of the regulations in force so far, there is a clear prediction - as is self-evidently stated - that local and traditional foods, including geographical indications which are inextricably linked to the culture and heritage of the country, may receive special attention, taking into account the national situation, such as their contribution to the overall intake of food. What does that mean by simple words? It means that the fixed position of our country is already confirmed by what is in force in the regulation, namely the PDO - PGI products, but also the products of a component such as olive oil and honey, can and must be excluded from the scope of any such directive. In my dentext I will return with more specific topics about the positions and actions of the Greek side in this debate and in this debate that is difficult and I would not say that it is also very optimistic on the basis of the choice of specific countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u270	Mr Arachovitis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. As you said, Minister, there is a danger - in order to understand the world that listens to us - that kind of cola refreshments may be found with such over-simplification to be more safer, healthier than traditional olive oil or much more the feta which is not an ingredient, but is a PDO product. Greece needs protection of products. The dangers are many and it is not just this labelling system. I would remind you of the protection of the name "Greek Yurti". The Czech Republic has come to legalise through its legislation the use of the name ‘Greek Yurti’. From 2017 to 2019 with a great effort we have made to force the Czech Republic to change its legislation. Such threats that are either made by other countries or by ourselves as a country, as business in the country, are created - and you know well that I am talking about the fraudulent company on the feta - are working at the expense of our national products. It's not just the danger outside, it's inside. Let me point out, however, by the way that the fine imposed on the company is a very low fine based on wrong or old legislation, a joint ministerial decision. We have tabled a relevant question to you and we are very much waiting for your answer. In order to protect Greek products, however, in the context we have said, alliances also need to be established. Here too, we would like to hear the view of the Ministry and the actions it has taken so far. Because I don't hide you that the first part of your answer was theoretical. Let us see so far what action, alliances and initiatives the country has developed so that we can have real protection against these phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u272	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. The Greek Government, and therefore the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, has - as I have said before - a specific position on this issue, which is systematically promoted and supported in a consistent manner both bilaterally and in the Union and in the Councils and in the bilateral relations that we have with European colleagues. Our aim is first of all to harmonize food labelling systems at the front of the packaging. We are not in favour of multilingualism or of the chaos created. Secondly, the system to help the consumer understand the essential information on the nutritional composition of foodstuffs, i.e. to be descriptive. Thirdly, the system is not over-simplistic. We are saying clearly that we do not want to use color categorisation of food nor to assess food as a whole without taking into account parameters that differ in nutritional profiles and value. Foods belonging to the following categories, namely PDOs, PGIs, products of traditional specialities guaranteed and products of a component such as olive oil and honey, should be excluded from the application of the scheme. Overall, the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food through our contacts and meetings is expressed at international level and our serious reservations, but also our conviction that what is going to be done is at the expense of the common purpose, that is to say at the expense of informing the consumer. We have an ally in this regard in all the concerns of the scientific community and in Greece and Europe in that direction. The European Commission, in the study requested by EFSA, shows that it is moving in this direction. Our members, the Permanent Greek Representation in the European Union, are making a concerted effort with other colleagues in order to turn their interest and direction. Furthermore, it is well known that it is our absolute priority to shield the quality and strategy of relocating agricultural products both in the domestic and international markets. Immunity of quality means also among these bad and unfair practices and attitudes that you mentioned before. We have taken great steps in terms of the institutional framework, major steps in terms of laws and instruments. We are also moving on to a redeployment of the control mechanism. We are moving towards a series of moves that will discourage those who want to put their hands and take their eyes off as far as emphatic Greek products are concerned, causing enormous damage to both the country and production potential. We are here to discuss, and we will answer your question, ways that this framework will be even more stringent. Let me remind you, for example, that the word 'Greekisation' in the institutional arsenal to deal with such unfair practices of distorting products was that government that adopted and legislated it. And it is under way and a number of other initiatives that will tighten up and make them more operational in terms of control and sanctions. I would also like to say that as far as the food promotion strategy is concerned, it is clear that in a demanding and competitive environment that we live in, we must not only stay in what is already in existence. Obviously, we need to back up and support PDOs, PGIs, to ensure that products of the particular Greek identity reach them as they need to be, with appropriate information to consumers abroad, to strengthen actions that will enable them to gain added value, organic products, free coal products - trends that are currently developing throughout the world and seeking them - and at the same time to have a documented view and view how the over-simplified movements and models of information are damaging overall what we want to achieve, namely to know what the world and the consumer are buying. In this context, Mr Arachovitis, I would like to inform you that a committee is set up, an advisory group under the Greek food programme, which will deal mainly with the issue of nutritional labelling of foodstuffs. This group is commanded by renowned scientists and academics. Soon I think we can have very specific communications on its recommendation. It is a group that will obviously also seek participation and support from the parties, from institutions, from people who have dealt with matters in the past so that we can document and strengthen Greece's position further in this regard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u274	We continue with the eighth question from the petitions - Questions No 5972/14-2021 by MP Laconia of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘The risk of the 25th irrigation of measure 4.3.1 and the loss of almost EUR 350 million from the Programme for Rural Development (PAP) 2014-2020’. Mr Arachovitis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, yesterday was the world day for desertification. Desertification is a phenomenon of loss of productive land, of productive soil influenced both by climate change and by over-exploitation and exhaustion of natural resources. As climate change is a strong situation which has been particularly affecting primary production in good time since 2019, by Decision 4679 from 2-7-2019, the ESDP's investment infrastructure for improvements totalled thirty of an irrigation project of a total budget of EUR 448 million for water savings, irrigation water management, reduction of irrigation costs and the armourisation of the country, primary production against climate change. Of these thirty one projects, twenty-five as beneficiary is the Ministry of Rural Development itself, namely the Directorate for Improvements and Territorial Resources. Let me remind you of these works: It is the construction of the Kelefina dam in Laconia. It's the Embassy's irrigation network in Florina. It's Nigrita's irrigation network. It is the irrigation network of Mesovanos in the Municipality of Jordan Kozani. It's the NAS network of Naoussa Farm in Imathia. It's the Mayor's irrigation in Florina Prefecture. It's the TWO Island of Imathia. It is energy saving using RES - important project - in the Municipality of Pydna Kolindrou. It is the dam in the Philiatrins basin in Messinia, which is a work with a long history. It's the Cat TEV in Elia. It's the irrigation network in Germa, Kastoria. It's the work in Halkidiki. It is the irrigation network in Takas, Arcadia, where the lake has been working for decades and has not watered one more acre. It's the improvement of the irrigation at the Orthodox of Boeotia. He's in Larissa, Livadaland. He's also in Trikala County. He's in Thermi, Thessaloniki. It's Ayokambos in Larissa. They're the networks of Anavalos. It's the expansion of the networks in Ermionida. At the same time, we have the construction of an irrigation pipeline in the Heritage Region of Heraklion Fthiotidas, Fokidas, Karditsa, Erythropotamos, the Municipality of Halkidonas Thessaloniki and Apokoronas Chania. These are the twenty-five projects. What's going on now? For these twenty-five projects, legal commitments had to be made in the eighteenth month. From what we know, so far the necessary legal commitments have not been made, although the eighteenth period has passed, we are in the six-month extension that could have been requested and risk these twenty-five projects - you will tell us and expect your reply with great interest - or some of them will not have made the necessary commitments and will have done so. Tell us if there's any danger and we'll talk along the way because this has happened and what can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u276	Minister, the word for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u277	I would first like to begin with three main remarks, because it is a very interesting and essential question. Firstly, the improvement of existing infrastructures, or new interventions, are a key factor in the durability and competitiveness of agricultural holdings. Secondly, the construction of projects in Greece - all projects, but let's go to the optimistics - is a time-consuming process because of factors related to the process of the works themselves, but also to the adequacy of the studies. Thirdly, because the previous one is precisely the case, we owe the projects that are part of the work that are well and well studied so that we can get time and not go back. It is difficult, I think, to disagree with these remarks, and I say this, because specific assumptions should be a little tone and to shape the perception of such questions, such as today's, which is true that the entire previous period has been "valued" in introductory or off-important terms by SYRIZA officials throughout the Greek territory, in order to criticise the government. If, in fact, we add to all of this, Mr Arachovitis, the fact that the time for the inclusion of the projects was on July 2, 2019, that is seven days before the elections, before the elections, when the programme was open for four years on the SYRIZA government, one is aware of the importance of the comments and the findings he made. But let's actually go now. We will answer you, but this question, apart from us, because of the information I have given you and it should be a question that is addressed within the SYRIZA, and on your own side, if, that is, if all the conditions were met, that would allow the entrepreneurs to be executed quickly and in good time. As far as our answer is concerned, I have to say to you: Despite the problems we have inherited with a very great effort both from the political leadership and from the service actors, we have ensured that the process of the smooth tendering of projects is under way and I will tell you more specific things afterwards. So I will answer what the reasons for the delays are. There are four reasons. Firstly, pandemic and subsequent restrictive measures have brought together a number of difficulties and the setting-up of committees and the recruitment process of consultants on critical projects issues. Secondly, we had major problems in the process of setting up the competition committees - and you know that - because of the protracted strike - over a six-month period - of the people who could be involved in these committees of engineers, thereby delaying their staffing and setting up. Another basic reason for delays - where I imagine that he is also known or should have been known to you - is the fact that many registered projects required expropriations. Simplifications which constitute a complex and very difficult and time-consuming process. And finally - and I would say the hardest and worst - it is the fact that in many projects there was the need to update, not to say drafting from the beginning of the studies, in order to move forward and implement the projects. The good news. In order for there to be no ambiguity - because this is indeed a genuine concern, no one wants to be involved in any way, money, Community funds and, above all, to deprive us of the possibility of substantial intervention in the rural areas of our country - I would like to make it clear that there is no question of devising registered acts. Their implementation continues unnecessarily. There will be no risk of loss of Community funds. In particular, eight of the projects that have been integrated have largely evolved the competitive process. There are already temporary project contractors and the procedures are normally progressing in signing the final contract agreement. In eight other projects proposed, our Ministry has launched the time-consuming expropriation process, as it requires the completion of real estate charts and tables by the scholar who obviously has the necessary data to get to the drawing-up of the lands. For the rest of the projects - where many of them also contribute to supplies - which were proposed by both the regions, thorough monitoring, extensive corrections and supplements to the initial study were required in order to reach the tender documents, both with regard to the specifications which were not in conformity with the regulations in force and with regard to the estimates of the work invoices. All this led to these projects being scored and quantified on 2 July to join. The delay and the need to draw up the essence of our studies went far behind. Before I finish and return to my dentistry, I would like to respond very substantially to the fear of the works being carried out. I would therefore like to inform the House that, according to the latest information and action we have done, for twenty-two of the twenty-fifth projects, an amendment has already been adopted to their decisions on the deadline for entering into a legal commitment for three main reasons: the existence of land acquisition procedures - for expropriations - for the need to prepare, update or amend a construction study - the biggest problem I have highlighted - and the delays that have been caused in some cases by COVID. I would like to submit to the Minutes a total of twenty-two decisions on the projects I mentioned earlier. [[At this point, the Secretary of State for Rural Development and Food Mr Ioannis Economou presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For all these twenty-five projects, the necessary decision was taken by our service to approve the draft contract of construction in order to follow its signature. This act is "modernisation - extension of the Messinian Municipality of Jordan's Prefecture" with a budget of about 5m euros. Also, for two of the twenty-five projects, the procurement procedures have made substantial progress. It is estimated that the convention can be made possible so that we do not have a problem with the current deadline. This is the project "driving the operation of existing Trikala irrigation networks" with a budget for the integration of 12 million euros and a "manufacture of irrigation network in Nea Mesembria of the Municipality of Halkidon, Thessaloniki" with a budget for the integration of 10,708,000 euros. So no work will end up. We did what we had to do and from the Minutes you can be officially informed of our actions. We have received a situation of project execution in the country, which is problematic, but it has been doubled because we have had to manage expropriations and re-education of studies at a time when both COVID and other conditions do not allow for a rapid response. However, the projects are on a safe road of implementation, as the Greek state needs them, but above all the primary sector in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u278	Mr Arachovite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Look, in order to put things in place, Minister, that three and a half years in SYRIZA rule has taken hard work and cooperation with the services we thank, so that the studies can grow and that the projects can be submitted, you do not say so at the last minute. You call it three and a half years. One of the prisoners. Secondly, as far as excellence is concerned, I did not expect you to say that, because you know very well that in order to put a proposal into practice a measure it needs to have all the necessary studies mature and ready in its file. There were candidates, as you know, who did not meet the standards and did not join them. For the twenty-five years that we have debated the dossiers were complete and the studies may have needed updates obviously. Everything needs to be updated because of the years. But under no circumstances can we charge everything to the pandemic and say that the pandemic has stopped life. The eighteenth day of July has spent a very long time. There is obvious inertia, particularly - to be fair - of the prior political leadership of the Ministry. Clearly, there is inertia. So we don't look good. With regard to the three projects you have said, we will monitor them, here we will be, as with regard to the other twenty-two projects, and we will also see what it has tabled in the Minutes. But I will keep this: none of this will go to the Recovery Fund. There are other projects to go to the Recovery Fund. We'll be here, we'll make you a tough review, and we won't let anyone go to the Recovery Fund. Because the Recovery Fund by the method you have chosen as a government, namely the development of PPP projects, creates something that we must, by the way, make it clear to the world. With the public-private partnership, half of the project is subsidized, the other half project will be called upon to put his money back, obviously with legal interest. So it will have a right to say in the administration, it will have an "administrative" that is, and the user will pay half the work. The twenty-five projects are 100% funded, so the user, the producer, will pay nothing at the end. The PPP will pay half the project. Let's get things straight. I would like from this position to congratulate the services for the cooperation we have had and to thank them for the fact that we have managed these projects in a timely manner to mature and integrate them into the specific measure of the Rural Development Programme. I am waiting for an explicit commitment in your denology and clear words that from now on there will be no lost time, there will be no lost deadline, and for the twenty-five projects the procedures will proceed, except for the theoretical part and minutes, so that we do not have any response to these twenty-five projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u280	Minister, the reason for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arachovitis, the same services as you worked with when you were at the Ministry are the same services and the same people we are working with and, indeed, their work and experience are valuable and their support for every political leadership towards the primary sector, to the Greeks and Greek farmers is important. I said from the outset that the first thing to be seen is the framework of project procedures. And that is not a matter of political or party controversy, I am sure that you felt it and you, as well as Mr Vorides, and we are today. When you go to build a project whose study has been done ten and twelve years ago, you start with a goal from the locker room, you start with problems. These are matters centrally, structurally, which we need to see, and we need to deal with them, such as issues relating to the speed of procedures, which, of course, need to comply with international obligations and transparency. However, many times these lead to a delay in the final result and all this is at the expense of primary production. It is true that many of these projects should have received much better preparation. We've been through protology too. Let us not repeat them. Keep the fact that we have done everything in our power and we are here to ensure, in cooperation with the services and with the administration, that our policy at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is not lost 1 euro and that no work is done. And not just that. To make use of money from the transitional period package and resources from the next transitional period and from the EIP to finance a new generation of European works, not only large projects that the country needs, but also small projects, such as renewal of equipment, rehabilitation of networks, substituting networks, of which it has a huge need for all the cultivated areas in our country. I want to say two words about the Recovery Fund. The Recovery Fund provides a unique opportunity for the Greek state to make use of resources so that it can build large projects, dams and closed networks in areas of the country that are currently suffering from the absence and lack of these infrastructures. It does not appear from anywhere that the Greek producer, the Greek farmer and the Greek farmer, will pay half-a-half with the private. These projects will be repaid to the private sector by means of availability payments from the Greek State. Therefore, it has nothing to contribute from its pocket to the construction of the project by the Greek producer, the Greek farmer or the Greek farmer. Very soon we will be able to inform the Greek Parliament more thoroughly about how we plan this generation of PPP projects, dams and networks across the country and also discuss changes and reforms that we need to do in the context of the operation of TWGs and GFCFs, so that they acquire features that will enable them to be more effective in their operation, to make more efficient use of resources, to acquire resources and human resources to do what they need to do, how to modernise things there, building structures and shapes that can make immediate, rapid, substantial and extensive interventions in the irrigation network of the wider regions. The PPP projects we are planning through the Recovery Fund are projects based on substantial studies, they are projects that will change the look of agricultural holdings, reduce more than half the cost of production, thus indirectly increase the producers' revenues, are projects that will not cost their construction to anything in the Greek producer. And through the overall approach and reform, which we want to make in the irrigation field, in the TEBs, the GEBs, interventions, modernisation, renewal, new improvements, I think we will add a very substantial port, we will give a very substantial supply to the primary sector in our country, which is missing and which, as you have rightly said, is a crucial factor in the durability and competitiveness of the primary sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Minister, for all your answers. We move on to the fourth question under number 862/11-6-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingpoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on “Following UNESCO commitments from the Ministry of Culture during the recent Acropolis renewal”. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, first of all, I apologise to interrupt even for a few minutes the euphoric climate of the glamouria in which the country lives, the type of "short sea, a little of antiquities and a lot of our foreigners play, and that is good" and to come to more landed things, but they have real and timeless glow and for which we fear your policies, not us SYRIZA, the scientific community, public opinion, but also publications of approved newspapers of the foreign press. And you know, Minister, it's the foreign press you called here to show show show for the Acropolis, but it looks like it's turned you boomerang. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I'll take some time, Mr. President. Let's get to the point. The recent constructions of the new extensive routes in the Acropolis result in overlapping of large parts of the natural rock, overlapping of ancient structures and traces, ultimately, the universal change of the image and the scale of uptake of the monument, as has been internationally reflected in the consciousness of the people. The same will be done - and much more so - according to reports by experts, in front of the Propylaea on the western access to the monumental scale that will be made with new material, but also with the formations, constructions and horizontal floors between the monuments. You know, as we all know, that the Acropolis is on the list of the world cultural heritage of UNESCO, the 1972 Convention, adopted by our country by law in 1981. In Articles 108, 118 of the operating guidelines, Greece has undertaken to prepare a suitable and qualified management plan before humanity in order to accurately define the ways and methods of protecting and maintaining the unique world value of the Acropolis. A key element of the management plan is the prediction and assessment of the impact of any intervention on the good of the world heritage. In accordance with Article 172 of the operating guidelines, each Contracting Party shall inform the World Heritage Center in good time of its decisions to make constructions in the monument area. It should therefore, before any action taken by the Ministry of Culture, have drawn up this management plan and, at the same time, sent an assessment of the impact on the heritage, together with the comments from all the texts of the study in question. Do you ask yourself, Minister - so as not to waste more time - what have you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u284	Here, Minister, Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor for your trial.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, please be sure that all the projects carried out in the Acropolis have been kept and complied with by our country by all the commitments resulting from the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the World Heritage of UNESCO. I assure you - because you want to ignore it - that Greece and the scientific potential of the Ministry of Culture under the scientific diligence and supervision of Manoli Corres is doing an extremely important and excellent scientific work on the Acropolis. Projects in the Acropolis have been launched for forty years, in most cases Mr Corress has been involved with full respect for the principles of the Venice Charter and international conventions. In your question you referred to Article 172 of the UNESCO operational directives. This article contains a recommendation to the Member States to inform UNESCO of their intention to carry out large-scale work and constructions, I repeat large-scale work and constructions, in an area or monument protected by the Convention and may have an impact on its prominent universal value. First of all, you should understand that the work on the modulation of routes to the Acropolis for persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities, as well as the placement of the slope elevator, is considered to be small-scale projects. And you are obviously ignoring that in the statement made in 2013 by our country to UNESCO on the Acropolis, which was adopted in July 2015, the work done and done with a clear reference to accessibility projects for disabled people is included. I am translating the statement: "In particular, attention has been paid to the accessibility of the archaeological site to the routes and services of visitors, especially those who are prevented." I also make the statement in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also remind you that projects to enhance accessibility in spaces and monuments are an obligation for all Member States, in line with the 'Objective 10' of the UN's sustainable development. Moreover, the archaeological site of the Acropolis falls within the strict framework of protection of Law 3028 and is always followed - always! - all procedures for the approval and implementation of studies and interventions in the monuments of our country. All the studies carried out to restore the existing routes from 1976 on the Rock were examined by the relevant bodies of the Ministry, following the recommendations of the Acropolis Monuments Maintenance Committee, the Acropolis Monuments Maintenance Service and approved by the Central Archaeological Board, as well as the Ministry's services, while the services supervised the implementation of the studies, as defined in Law 3028. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] The cement routes, the late Yiannis Trail of the 1970s, that is, they existed before the Acropolis's accession to the monuments of UNESCO, are today a repetition of the old with better material. I testify to the Practical Photos that appear before and after, as well as the various phases from 1976 onwards. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sports, Mr Styliani Mendonis, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Madam Plenipotentiary, you refer to planned projects on Western access to the front of the Propylians. I inform you that the study on the formation of the western access of the Acropolis is being prepared by Manolis Corres and his partners. And as we have said many times, it will be presented after its completion in the scientific community next autumn at an international scientific conference on the projects in the Acropolis, where it will be discussed properly. This conference has also been invited by experts from UNESCO who have already accepted our invitation. So the archaeological data, the depreciation of the natural landscape and the security risks of monuments are speculation, but your party systematically reproduces them. You are also referring to the absence of a management plan, in accordance with Articles 108 to 118 of the operational principles of the World Heritage Centre and that projects are poorly carried out. You should know that almost all Member States' entries before 2005, including the Acropolis, did not have management plans, since at the time they joined, they were not prerequisites. You may not know that since 2018, over the days of SYRIZA, the work of preparing the management plans for the monuments is under the list of cultural heritage and do not have them. This project is completed, according to your schedules, in 2023. However, especially for the Acropolis, beyond its inclusion in this project, in order to ensure maximum specificity in developing an integrated management system, a risk management plan is also drawn up by us from 2020. This is especially for the Athens Acropolis. Member of Parliament, because there was no management plan in 2015-2019, I do not remember you stopping the works in the Acropolis, as I never remember having been raised by any such issue in UNESCO. (AD) And I do not even remember that such a coordinated effort has ever been made on the part of a political party with a continuous take-news in order to ensure the credibility of the country, the services and the officials of the Ministry of Culture, as well as of distinguished scientists in an international organisation. Some do not hesitate on the altar of personal and possibly respected scientific controversy, to cross the country internationally by false evidence and always by the background.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u286	Here, Mrs Readingulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u287	Thank you. I'll take the same time with the Minister, if you'll excuse me. Minister, as you have always said, nothing at all. And you have not only answered me, but also the Greek people, the scientists, but also the international community. Please, to me "Ignore", "You don't know", etc., you won't talk like this again. I won't allow you to do that. You'll answer what I'm asking you. The fact that you're a senior civilization and you're trying to show it in every way we've lived in the Acropolis, when the Chief of Staff has climbed up. So please. The Acropolis issue is not a SYRIZA issue, it is not a question of the New Democracy. It is a matter of the Greek state and it is about a monument of global heritage. It concerns scientists, the international press and public opinion, because it is the emblematic monument of democracy. I understand from your answer, firstly, that you have not prepared any management plans, as the country is obliged to do. Secondly, you have not informed UNESCO. As Mrs Ressler said to the journalist at Liberaton - you know that very well - she learned it from third parties. With regard to the risk management plan, Minister, you say that to someone who can hear it, but we know very well that it has nothing to do with any of the things we are discussing. Thirdly, Minister, do not hide behind disabled people and difficulty in moving. This isn't about it. It's not about the arm's stratifications. This is something else - Korres himself has said - which covers the Rock itself, the prints from the Paleolithic era to this day, changes the hiring scale of monuments, major changes are taking place. With these features of natural landscape and architects - because the Rock itself is a monument - the Acropolis became a monument of global cultural heritage. And you're coming here now and you're always trying to hide out instead of answering. And, indeed, it is not just those interventions. There's also the scale in the Propylaea. It is a huge scale of what has been mentioned by those responsible for the Acropolis. Also, are the platforms to be built between the monuments, which will cover almost all the Rock between the monuments. Should UNESCO be or should it not be informed? Do you or do you not jeopardise yourself, the Ministry? He's not a scientist. The Greek state has signed the contract. No scientist signed it. It's not SYRIZA. Greek ICOMOS is not SYRIZA. The World Heritage Monitoring Centre is SYRIZA, Minister? Answer that. Mr President, I am tabling what I have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u288	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u289	Madam Commissioner, you are obviously not in a position to understand some answers. I'm not wrong with you. You don't know the procedures. You refer to shapes that you have in mind. You have every right to do it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u290	I'm not letting you talk to me like that! We're talking about the Acropolis. The Minister for Culture is not allowed to speak like this!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u291	Don't interrupt, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u292	Will you answer for the Acropolis? Leave that tone! I will go if it goes on like this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u293	...as I have every right to say to you, that you who are today defending the Acropolis acropolis have left an Acropolis abandoned, accidents. Even anti-ceranic protection was not even, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, in such a situation as to protect the four people who were injured in March 2019. Obviously - and I do not demand it - you do not know that for any monument if something needs to be done it is the study, the preparation of the study.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u294	I'm not listening to her, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u295	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please! Speak as you wish, and the Minister speaks as she thinks. Even if you don't agree, don't react. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u296	Obviously I do not have the requirement to know, you refer to Western access. I told you, the study is now being prepared. So our obligation is to prepare the study. The study is being prepared. You're trying to say that's what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u297	And they're being filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u298	The study will take into account the international scientific community at the November conference, and then any information will be given, if it is considered to be a major intervention, to UNESCO.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u299	He doesn't have the prerequisites...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u300	Don't move my finger like that. Let me tell you something. I've informed you a thousand times from this Step. Access to the Acropolis, whether you like it or not you like it, is our priority. Acropolis works are based on clear scientific data and follow the principles of the Venice Charter. Interventions are limited to what is strictly necessary and respect the ancient structural system, while they remain meticulously consistent with the principle of reversibility. I would refer you to the video posted by the Acropolis Monuments Maintenance Service, which undeniably substantiates the reversibility of the routes. Ten international conferences have been organised so far, and, as I said before, the eleventh in November will be organised. At these conferences the studies are fully exposed, they acquire the necessary publicity from there and, depending on the experts' judgement, they are modified or implemented. However, you and your resignation stubbornly refuse to accept the truth and perish in a game of impression.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u301	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u302	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please. Why are you irritating?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u303	But he can't say what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u304	Respect the process. I see the Minister answering with arguments. Don't you take them? That's your right. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u305	This episode of what you are trying to say is your claim that the commitments resulting from the UNESCO Convention are not complied with. It does not give us any impression that Opposition once again tries to do what is best known, create impressions to shorten your own mistakes and question the work that the Ministry of Culture and his executives are doing. It does not even give rise to the fact that in this attempt you are making false allegations of alleged non-compliance with the UNESCO obligations of the country. I submitted you with the approval of 2015, which you are ignorant of. But I cannot help but stress the fact that the party line of your paradigm has exceeded the limits of opposition criticism at the point where SYRIZA, who has done absolutely nothing to civilization or the Acropolis, in the two years that are in opposition, is spent on false news leading to desperate announcements using a judicial language, distortions and constantly fast news.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u306	Is GUARDIAN SYRIZA, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u307	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, in any case Greece cannot be caught in the denial, black and face news of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u308	What are you talking about? You've broken up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u309	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you're in plenary. Excuse me, when you disagree, you don't have to react like that. You have the policies of your own, the policies of the government are expressed by the Minister, with arguments and with great courtesy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u310	What arguments? He's been lying all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u311	Do not react and do not interrupt the procedure. Respect, as you have been respected. No one interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u312	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, understand that Greece is not caught in the denial, in the Black and Fake News of SYRIZA, nor in reasonable anachronistics that are completely indifferent to the value and importance of the emergence and extroversion of the Greek civilization through works and actions pertaining to the status of legality and contemporary conception. Hence your location for last night's event in Kallimarmaro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u313	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u314	You have no right. There is no record of what Mrs Anagnostopoulou says, absolutely nothing. We are moving on to the last one for today, from twenty-two please - so everyone can hear it - questions, in the second under number 6113/590/19-4-2021 - and request the submission of documents of petitions - Questions by MP B2' West Athens, Mera 25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Instead of removing the incinerator of hazardous sanitary waste next to HYTA Ano Liosias, it is planned for his long stay". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a written question and a request for documents to be lodged two months ago and two months ago has now remained unanswered and has therefore been submitted as timely. On June 11th, last Friday, the competent department of the Ministry of Environment and Energy adopted the decision to approve environmental conditions, GDPO, for the integrated waste management of the Western Attica OEDD, the Race Crystal, legalising a huge expansion of the existing facility that operates with incredible patches and manipulations, as we have denounced again and again. I have submitted over ten topical questions and a few written questions and requests for documents on the matter. We are asking for the HYTA Race to be closed, but we are asking for it to be restored, legality to be restored with a GDP for the whole area, as is the law, anyway. Includes the GDPFO for the construction of the new HIT already entrusted to the ELECTOR consortium and the decision is valid for 15 years from its adoption. Now, while the adoption of environmental conditions is uniform, there are three essential and very important units missing. These are the ELECTOR biogas plant, the ELECTOR hazardous waste incinerator and the WATT recycler plant. It is unthinkable that you are using as an excuse for exempting these three units from this single GDP, environmental licensing, that they are managed by private individuals. Unthinkable! At the same time, this GDP ignores or reduces systematic findings from measurements showing significant excesses in a number of polluting parameters, such as the Rapid HYTAC Environmental Monitoring Reports, the operating reports of the EMAS and the Incinerator of hazardous health waste, the reports of environmental inspectors on the groundwater that are hidden, but have leaked into the press, the studies of the University of Athens, the studies of the management body of the Triasios and the failure to use the integrated epidemiological research deliverers. And it is above rivers the statement that projects at the West Attica OP as already built and running for many years cannot further change the social and economic habits of the region. Finally, you tell us, Minister, that this area is used to being a dump in Greece and will remain that way. That is why - and I am closing and thanking for the tolerance - we are asking for a real reason, not the one that is totally unscrupulous, which excludes these three units, but also the waste incinerator from the GDP. How will the cumulative impacts on the environment of western Athens be assessed from the operation of all these units, operating within and near the area of the HYTA Physics? We are calling for the four documents of the four decisions to date on the environmental authorisation of a hazardous sanitary waste plant, the initial decision of the EDNA, of the then ECDCNA, on the construction and operation of this plant, incinerator, the programming contract of the ENTSO for Radiation and DETELA, the municipal company of the Municipality of Ano Liosia, referred to in Decision 124, 2021, and the auditors’ reports from the competent environmental services to EYAM, from the beginning of operation until now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u316	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, once again we are talking about waste management, in this particular and today's question about the management of hazardous sanitary waste. You are asking me whether it is included in the environmental study of the organised waste management facility in West Attica. The answer is that it is included in the ICM of the organised installation. Includes a specific technical description of the incinerator of hazardous sanitary waste. It shall be taken into account in the assessment of the impact of landed in the organised waste installation and management, as well as in the proposals for monitoring under the monitoring programme. Note that the incinerator does not form part of the new GDP of the ‘Completed management facility’ project since an environmental approval decision is in place, which has been considered sufficient to address the environmental impact. On the other hand, it is managed, as you mentioned to the private body, by a contract with the Special Status Association of Attica. You also know that Ano Liosia incinerator is the only in operation in the country that serves the incineration of hazardous sanitary waste, some of which should otherwise be taken abroad. It should be noted that mixed hazardous waste, as well as other hazardous sanitary waste, is an appropriate solution to manage incineration. On the basis of the national waste management plan, the total amount of hazardous sanitary waste produced in 2018 amounted to sixteen thousand seventeen hundred tonnes, of which three thousand nine hundred tonnes were incinerated in the incinerator under discussion. It should be noted that there exists, as I have said before, an incineration plant, which increases transport costs, particularly in the cases of remote health units. This area of operation is also among the proposed measures in the national waste management plan. Other incineration plants are also provided for by waste management bodies or private individuals, significantly improving the existing management network, eliminating the spatial unequal distribution of existing plants, making use of the existing plant and new incineration plants for hazardous wastes of health plants, treating waste of other origin, in particular waste of pharmaceuticals and pharmaceuticals, industrial waste, where incineration is an appropriate method of disposal and the selected incineration technology is suitable for such waste. Of course, there is always control and all the conditions regarding the protection of the environment. I'm telling you this, why before there was this incinerator to manage this dangerous sanitary waste, where all this was going? In the trash? Huge everywhere? Is this a better solution, my dear fellow Member, than to have an organised area under control and with respect to environmental impacts too? But since I have exceeded my time I will continue, and of course I will give you all the material you have referred to, in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Arsenis, the word for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u319	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'm glad you will deliver the documents we requested. We're waiting to see them to examine them. The excuse that "from nothing better to send it to the Gender" cannot go on. How to do it! It is not possible since the 1960s that this place has received the majority of the waste from half of Greece, that we are now talking about Europe's largest dump, and that we are discussing the continuation of this crime. You have presented, you will allow me, a beautiful picture. You have spoken of an area that operates properly and which respects the standards. We have discussed this on several occasions, the specifications are not working. We have reports that are hidden. The exhibition of "SPROPOS" has been closed in the drawers of the Mayor Gender for two years. We have the reports of environmental inspectors on groundwater, which are also considered a state secret and are not made public. We have reports pending or which have been made in the past which are not included, are not taken into account in the environmental impact study and in the authorisation for the very simple reason that a study with these effects could not stand. Anyone who sits and sees, as the European Parliament quite rightly said in the response of the Committee on Petitions, will see that this is a crime that is being committed in the Gender Cyberry that will torture three generations of the country. The fact that today we are even thinking of perpetuating it and making it worse and burning it is something that is not acceptable. We can't even place ourselves. I would just invite you to really take a walk in the neighborhoods of Petroupoli to see how the situation with the amosomia is in summer, not every day, but very often. See how inviolable the lives of the inhabitants of this place are and then come and talk again. Implementing Decision 2019/2010 of the European Union of 12 November 2019, which directly enters into force, lays down conditions for the frequency and also requires a strict frequency of measurement of the particular health and environmental indicators with regard to the sanitary waste treatment plants. We have ammonia, nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, carbon dioxide, hydrochloride, mercury, total volatile carbon oxides, suspended particles and the measurement must continue. In addition, the automated or non-automatic handling of incineration waste with non-reusable bulk containers, if used, is required, cleansing and disinfection of reusable containers, if used. These are directly applicable from 2019. We want the reports that include them. We demand all these elements to be in the hands of the people of western Athens and the people of Western Attica. Because I'm sorry, but the only fight you're letting us do right now is the judiciary. And there's gonna be a court fight. We want all this evidence for the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it is true that the delay in finding a solution for the management of waste and hazardous sanitary waste is certainly leading to problems. I have said this on other occasions because I have the honour of answering many of your questions about environmental protection, about delaying the management of organised spaces that meet all the conditions for their management, taking into account all the measures, - not us here - we do not solve the problem by administering it ourselves and without knowing what is going on outside of us for years now. There is know-how, there is experience, there are technologies. All this has already worked abroad and we too are going to use methods and technologies. And when we come to point out the position in which the processing plant operates, that's where all the reactions begin and end, so the delay in dealing with the waste management problem. But we need to make decisions, as they choose outside - which, in practice, are solutions that respond and with respect for environmental protection - so we need to do here. Learn to make decisions. The delay is causing problems, which is why the extensions to the area you are talking about and we are discussing today. Let's go somewhere else and organize some space, we still have reactions. And what about the management of waste and waste? They're going where? We're going to throw them out of the country? But they manage them well. We are slowing down on our part. This is a general remark. And there in the area that's evolving is why we haven't found alternative and safer management sites. That's the truth. As far as the latter is concerned, we should go together and find places that are safer and from the point of view of what the standards will be and protect the environment together. But we need to find space. It can't all be uncontrollable. Continuing, because it is the only incinerator, I would like to tell you specifically about Attica that according to the National Hazardous Waste Management Plan, 42% of these hazardous wastes are produced in the Attica Region. It's the only incinerator, the only unit here is most. We want more and more to keep them from being carried. But to do it, to find places, to agree somewhere. Refusal everywhere creates problems, all of which we are constantly discussing and delays increase. That is why I share with you the agony at last to agree on all of us at all levels. And you know that I've been analyzed many times that I've lived through situations. We all agree on management, we all agree on methods or almost everyone else. The position chosen to set up the processing unit creates reactions wherever indicated. That's not how it works. As far as incinerator specifically is concerned, it is of particular importance for the proper environmental management of hazardous waste. In the recently adopted Consolidated Resolution on Environmental Conditions for the Organised Waste Management of Western Attica, as you referred to whether the new GNI is taken into account, the effects of the management and operation of the plant are taken into account. But I said that there was already a decision to approve environmental conditions for this plant. The fact that it also influences and interacts in all activities and facilities is true and that this contribution has been taken into account in relation to all activities in the region. As far as I have said, in your request to have answers for all the documents, I have a CD here including all the documents you are asking for and I will be happy to say so - I sincerely - for any proposal that gives an answer and a solution to the problem, we are here to discuss it. We want a solution that solves the problem. Solution means, however, choice of location, choice of way and at the end of installation of the activity so that it is not all bulk, scorpions everywhere and we are used to the image "scopies everywhere". When we go to pick them up in an organized space, the reactions begin. He's organized and controlled with all the specifications we don't put out of the world. They've been put before us. We know evidence that they work. We've visited them. We protect the environment even in the cities. So we will be useful to answer all the questions you ask. I know your sensitivity. But be useful and effective in resolving this problem. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers on very critical issues. You are, as always, essential. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the twenty-two topical questions has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-18-S1-commons.u323	With the consent of the House at 15.21 p.m. the sitting is closed for Wednesday 23 June 2021 at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
