ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Vice-President of the Government, the Ministers of Interior, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs, and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on the subject on 6 September of this year: ‘New Framework for the well-being of pets and pets — ‘ARGOS’ programme and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Strengthening transparency and accountability to state institutions, restoring the integrity of the Single Mobility System and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 2 September 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving one speaker from each parliamentary group and a 12-member circle of speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the JRC, one from the Greek Solution and one from the MRA25. With Webex platform teleconference service or with a physical presence, a 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Kyranakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's bill belongs to a wider strategy of the Government of New Democracy to enhance transparency in our country, and this was reflected in the first bill passed by our resignation as early as July 2019, when the National Transparency Authority, which has been doing its best to strengthen transparency in our country for two years. And I think it is worth going to see what has happened over the last ten years in this area, in the area of corruption and transparency, here in Greece. In 2012, therefore, the Government of New Democracy received Greece in its 94th position in the international CPI Transparency Index. In 2015, when he handed over power to the SYRIZA government, our country was in the fifty-eighth place, that is, within just two and a half years, progress was made on thirty-six full positions in the area of transparency in Greece. Then SYRIZA took over. The country went back to position 37, i.e. almost ten worse posts than the performance it had when it took over power, and in 2020, that is, one year after New Democracy took over, the country is again in position 59. It is precisely on the average score, on the score 50 in this international transparency index, something which is obviously progress in relation to what the SYRIZA government has given us, but cannot satisfy us. It does not satisfy us that our country is on the average. We want Greece to be a model country in every area. So we must continue to work so that transparency in our country becomes more distinct and consolidated by institutions, institutions and citizens themselves. So, what do we come and do today? We are coming and taking another step in this direction, another step towards improving our country's position in classifying international transparency. And it is a bill that has often been the subject of informal debates in our country and most of Greece involved in this debate say "but, slowly, they will never be. Adjust to a country like Greece such a place as lobbying?’ And yet it comes with courage, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorides, is bravely coming and brings in a bill that is simple and simple, which is the first step, so that we can put a framework of legislation and restrictions on the activity of the representatives of influence, as described in the bill. For the first time, therefore, it is described exactly who and who can practice this activity. For the first time, there is a transparent register in which those who want to exercise influence, enter the field of influence, become representatives of interest. These people will have to declare their field of activity annually, with a number of obligations that the National Transparency Authority will control. This annual report will also come to Parliament, so that the National Parliament can also have a say on this activity, and it certainly comes to regulate an area that so far has been operating in the gray, it has been working in the shadow. We all agree - I think this has been seen by the committees, Minister - that it must finally be regulated. Just how it will be arranged, what it will work and what it will not work, what it will be glorious to see it in practice. But it is the Government of the New Democracy which, determined in the fight for transparency, comes and takes another step to put restrictions and regulations in a gray space like lobbying. And that's because we don't want it to be a gray space. We want to see the substance behind any such act, behind any such piece of legislation. It has been heard, for example, in our committee, if I am not mistaken by the representative of the Communist Party of Greece, that in Brussels tens of millions have been spent in recent years. I think, Mr President, that you mentioned a figure of around 100 million if I'm not mistaken. Why is that? Let's go check on the substance. Are there people who want to throw money in this field? There are associations that use lobbying, other than businesses, which have their interests and associations of businesses have their own. But are there trade unions, associations, clubs, which also use lobbying in Washington, Brussels, or where it is used elsewhere? Yes, there are. Why are they doing it? Because they have realised that it is a more effective way of exerting pressure than a course, a demonstration where anarchists will enter and break everything, just to put pressure on them too. Some people on this planet have understood that if they organise their activities and put their demands in a number of ways, so that they can do so in a realistic and institutional way, perhaps this way can bring about a better outcome. So what are we doing here? We regulate an area where any association, any club in our country, can now, in a legitimate and clear way, meet with the body which has the power to make a decision, to vote for a piece of legislation, to put a signature on their request and that is done in a transparent and clear manner and accessible by citizens in terms of information. So the Minister will be able to have all the arguments at his disposal and so he will be able to decide justly, seeing all the actors, listening to all the views, what is right and what is right to be done and to vote. This bill comes in and sets a number of conditions and restrictions on who can carry out this activity, so that no one can, but there are clear dividing lines, so that we do not continue to function as a clear-cut vine. It also regulates the bill and gift policy and, indeed, the Minister has informed us that the provisions of the second chapter of the draft law on gift policy to public bodies and the Presidency of the Republic, which we very much thank. Why did he do that? Because this must also work in a clear way in our country. So any gift in the context of celebrity and courtesy, which is done anyway, will be given to the competent bodies and, if it exceeds the value of the two hundred euros, it will go to the ownership of the Greek public, the Greek people. I mean, he won't have a personal personality. In the third chapter of the bill we come and regulate provisions on the much-discussed mobility in the Greek State, and the truth is that in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a party derogating from the law passed by SYRIZA itself in 2016 on mobility, which set a framework, and this framework was violated two hundred and sixty-nine times, with two hundred and ninety-nine derogations. In other words, what was helping each body to come and introduce it with a derogation here in the House and undoing its own law again and again. Our government, too, has voted for some derogations. However, we come and start from a zero base so that the public' s mobility can function more rationally, work more properly, and the real needs, the permanent and real needs of the public can be served with civil servants who are really in the positions that are useful and in whom they want to be. So we allow them, within a certain period of time, to choose whether their organic position wants to be where they have been seconded or whether they want to return to their organic position, as defined by their initial intake. So a short bill, with little - I repeat - and clear provisions, comes and regulates this difficult area for public debate. It was difficult because no one so far wanted to touch him, no one so far had the will, the will, the will to touch him and to regulate him, while he knew that it was happening, and we all knew that this activity exists in Greece, as in other countries. We are trying as a government to make our country more transparent, because we do not accept, colleagues from SYRIZA, that we see our country back in the international classification of transparency by the countries of the former communist bloc, which we know the level of corruption in these countries. We do not agree to be our country behind Cuba, which we all know with what practice the governance is in that country. We do not even accept countries that you are judging first. In 2018, when we arrived at the worst point in your governance, when we lost ten seats in the International Transparency, we were behind Hungary and Mr Orban, who you so accused so much, you have targeted, you have demonised about. And your government managed to bring our country back from Hungary, both from Romania and Cuba. Greece today is above these countries. But I repeat that we still have a long way to go so that we can say that our country is a standard of transparency throughout Europe and worldwide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you too, Mr Cyranakis, for keeping time. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Cyranaki, thank you from the heart, because within a few minutes you have overthrown all the draft speech that I have been preparing these days. I think that after your speech today and what we have experienced in Greece over the past twenty-five months, we need to create a new political dictionary so that we can get together. The first line will be transparency. What's it gonna be like? It will be equivalent to the rule of Mitsotakis. The second line will be moderation. What's it gonna be like? It will be equivalent to Mr. Vorides and Mr. Plearis. In the third paragraph, we shall put the word progressively. What's it gonna be like? It will be equivalent to the New Democracy. We can continue to write blanks, words, communication flares. So we are, Mr Kyranakis, in Greece in 2021 and we all remember what happened in the past few years. I told you in committee too. Although we're in a generation near age, you don't listen. I told you about the CPI index. CPI does not capture measurable sizes, Mr. Kyranaki. It's a sensation. The change in sense in a country does not mean that reality changes in one country. And you will see this in very few, not weeks, but days on the subject of accuracy. You, Mr. Kyranakis, and your Government, Mr. Vorides, had developed the view that in the country the economy would go "bizin". So what will go 'vazin' in the next few days will be the price of oil, gas, electricity. That's where the "vizin" prices will go. We've been telling you this since May. Mr. Haritsis asked you a question in July and you did not answer it. And now, you come and you say you're taking action. Let's see what measures you take. However, you have taken steps where you have been able to intervene and raise the minimum wage on the basis of your election plan, you have given 0% increase for 2021 and 2% increase for 2022. And all that, because that's superman's policy, Mr. Hatzidakis. Does it pass through the Ministry of Energy? It destroys the energy market and 50% of prices go up. Is he going to the Ministry of Labour? It privatizes subsidiary insurance, freezes and lowers the real purchasing value of citizens. So, then, the fourth line in the dictionary should be the concept of a reformer, that is, how you can crack a real concept with really positive content. If I understood correctly, Mr Kyranakis, from your speech, I understand that today, with a majority rapporteur, you and Mr Vorides from the government, we are legislating something that is a better way than people doing marches, demonstrating, organising interests and society going better. So I imagine what the world we live in would be like. For to have a Parliament today, Mr Kyranakis, and be a MP and I, and wear jackets, costumes, nice shoes, some people have rebelled. The things we live here weren't the data. These are revolutionary products, racing product, blood product, product of social conflict, two hundred and two hundred fifty years ago. This was the French Revolution. That was the fights in Chicago. That was May of '68. This was the great Soviet revolution. This has shaped the modern world in which we live, Mr Kyranakis, and not by lobbying. And this is an undeniable historical reality which we all have to understand as the children of these great historical, political and social sections. Is there a framework for lobbying in Greece? Sure. Is the problem with the legislation brought by Mr Voridis? Oh, no. We do not invoke you, Mr Vorides, because you are bringing a framework for lobbying, but on the basis of what we have heard from the institutions too. Do once again, in another piece of legislation, a horrifying handshake, a gonatogram, one thing, which is without middle and end, one that the real lobbies already forming political influences, entrepreneurship, activity in the morbid way have seen it, read it and degraded it and are already discussing it among themselves and laughing. Doesn't that bother you as Minister? Doesn't it bother you to introduce such a perforated bill? So we have thirteen articles in general. With a first record, of course, this is positive and it is a basis. The next governments that will have greater courage and determination than you will go further. But why all of you and Mr. Beanie? Parliament does not exist? It cannot, it will be some of the hundred and fifty eight of your Members who will have studied the German system. In Germany, Parliament is involved. Take an idea, even if we don't do it today, do it in a next bill. That is real transparency and real accountability. Here are the representatives of the Greek people. You are the Prime Minister, elected Member, of course, of the few in this government, but in any case, that is what you are. Mr. Bini is a friend of Mr. Mitsotakis and yours lately since he was at the Ministry of Administrative Reform. Where is Parliament's control over these? Why do Germany choose this way and not differently? So you put a bill that is interesting and loaded with many mobility articles. Why are you doing this, Mr. Voridis? Which of the two, really, don't you want to talk? Do you not want to discuss the bill on lobbying or the changes you make to mobility? How much do you feel that you can continue to play and afflict public and public officials? I saw you the other day in an interview. They asked you whether you had an image of the rate of vaccination of civil servants and of the full organizational schedule, in relation to pandemic, teleworking, etc. In honor of you, we have told the truth. You said you didn't know and you'd be looking for it in the next few days. So I ask you from a Step of Parliament: we are in the first 10 days of September. How many civil servants have they been vaccinated? What predictions are there? What's the bad script? What plans is the government preparing to operate in the next few days? They said in schools. They didn't do anything for two years to open the halls, etc. But they said: so many cases, so many in a space etc. I have daily complaints about people who are stacked in the offices, they are on each other and there is no directive from above to below about what needs to be done. Don't you think that's what you're running late for exemplarily? Mrs Lykoulis asked you: How many are affected by the transfer procedure? You didn't answer. We denounced that this arrangement was photographic. Why don't you fully identify him? Why do you permanently leave an ambiguity and a nebula on these issues? We have also denounced that this story must be stopped with the right to sign on to contractors who are not permanent, because this shows that you do not have confidence in public administration. Why don't you withdraw this provision, Mr. Voridis? When will the public function bypass and be responsible for going to posters, who often do not have the experience that should be gained and training and simply pressed by political leaders to get a signature and an end? So we are quite clear how things have to work. Vouliwatch and international transparency have, in our view, made proposals which can even now be adopted and changed the way you legislate and be a good start for the next day. For example, can there be no record of each meeting between the institutions and representatives of interests? Can the time period for meetings not be recorded? Is it possible that there will be no scope for politics, but that particular subject of each meeting? Can the name of the lobbyists present at the meeting not be fully recorded? Is there not a record of the customer's name, whether it is a natural person or a legal person, representing interests, the position and the institution with which the representative of interests met? Is there not a budget to be recorded for the actions of influence? All this can be corrected now. And, indeed, if that happens, we can move, because you know our position. And I've tried many times to explain it to you. And I can't believe you don't understand it. You understand her. You're a very intelligent man. You are showing that you do not want to understand it, because the one who, in fact, does not believe in consensus and consultation in the basics of the political system in the country, is historically your party which fought all the major legislations that were sectoral. We have discussed in the Chamber what the New Democracy said about ASAP and I remember what the New Democracy said about the major reforms that have taken place in the field of local government not only from our own area but also from the PASOK area in previous years. So you, Mr Voridis, Mr Kyranakis and Mr Brutsi, want the consent for the purposes of communication, you only want it to be able to make a remodelling. I read from yesterday the remodelling and celebrations and "What a great move that was", "Mr. Stylianides fantasy, good". Good. Can I ask you something? Since on the Prime Minister's side there was such a good solution as Mr. Stylianides, why did we deal with Mr. Apostolakis? Obviously the Prime Minister was commanding the Apostolakis solution as much better, I believe, operationally by Mr Stylianides. Isn't that right? He was looking for him a week after Mr. Stylianides found him. I imagine how many he said and he wouldn't. I'll tell you why. Because with Mr Apostolakis, but also with Mr Stylianides to some extent, what Mr Mitsotakis cared about was not the essence of communication. He wanted a trick to bring it to Tsipras, he wanted a trick to create a public impression, to bring a European official with a good term of office to the European Commission, etc. But here, I would like to say something to you, because you will have a problem in the next period. The parties are not companies, nor are they teams to get a good aggressive, a good center back, a good finalist. The parties must have an opinion and consistency. And, indeed, I would like to have the opportunity to see a Ministerial Council, Mr Voridis, Mr Ploris, Mr Georgiadis, discussing with Mr Stylianides the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement. I want to see you there. Do you think you have political relevance, do you think you have a plan? Oh, no! You are trying to make fun of society, your society has understood and you are finally mocking yourself. You went up yesterday, Mr. Voridis, in Stepma of the Senate on the committee and made various lions and vacant contents of patriotism for Greece, Cyprus, etc. Do you agree, Mr. Voridis, with Mr. Stylianides' position on Plan Annan? So that the Cyprus issue will come and see you what you think and what line you'll get. What do you think is the country? We divide it into sixty Ministries, we give one to a centre-left, one that was fifty years ago in the JRC, one - not one - in a quarter of the People's Orthodox Alarm, none of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Is this the country? Is that governance? What do you think is the political system? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. Do you think it's a grocery store to shop whatever you want from every shelf? It's not a grocery store, it's not a political system. He wants political authorities here, he wants a plan for the country, and you have nothing. And you have in front of you to face crises. How are you going to deal with the crises? With telephones on the channels, "say that he's good"? So this is an absolute fiasco - absolute! - and completely devalued for the country's political system. It is disgraceful that this work is being done, that this defection! And it ends, and this story with a nebula that existed in a naive space of historical, modernizing part of the centre-left that believed that Mr. Mitsotakis was something different. What's Mr. Mitsotakis? It's a torso of a extreme right-wing government with a personal courtyard of friends. No ideas, no values, no plans for the country. And this must break any political link between any progressive citizens who saw a change over there. And I ask from a Step of Parliament: is it normal for a man from any version of the progressive ideological and adorable ideological party, to be with Vorides who is, was it - I don't know what he is and what he does - a follower of Lepen than we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Zachariadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Brutsi, don't be like this. It was. It was ten years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u8	You're attacking personally...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u9	When the other one was in the KKE and the other one was in PASOK, the other one was him. It came out and Mr. Caratzaferis told us yesterday. If it's not, I don't have a problem. The transition to politics is positive. It was! So what more normal should someone be there than to be from where we want to talk to the SPD, with the Social Democrats, with the Greens? That's more normal. They take him, they squash him, they throw him after the remodeling, and it ends, because this is the real political life of the country. And I don't get involved in the insides of another party. I'm trying to put the political lines, the historical - progression - conservation, Left - Right, Central Left - Central Right - again in the political system of the country. Now - and in half a minute, Mr President - on good news of the day: we are all vaccinated in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Everybody! However, the real question now arises: what about the Mitsotakis Parliamentary Group? Are they all vaccinated in Mr Mitsotakis' parliamentary group? What I'm saying now is some kind of news? You don't? Why? Because that's the way it is! Because they can! Because when it was one of SYRIZA's, there was no other thing in the country, one of SYRIZA was playing. Now that it's three, four, five from New Democracy, there's silence, there's covert, it doesn't open no nostrils. Why? Because that is the quality of public dialogue in the country, because that is the quality of most of the media in the country, because that is the quality of democracy in our country. So I close, Mr Kyranakis and Mr Voridis, in wanting to remind you of two things, because we were not the same, we are not the same and we will not be the same. We don't make you a catastrophic opposition. We have opposed you with proposals and, indeed, with this bill that came from the area of society. I have here in front of me, Mr. Cyranaki, an older post you. I was thinking yesterday whether or not I should testify to it in the Minutes. I decided not to testify to it in the Minutes, because I know you are a young man and young people can change direction and review and see that they make mistakes. What were you telling us here in an old tweet of yours in January 2019? You said: “You pay 80 euros and you have gasoline worth 26 euros. The remaining 54 go to the posters of Tsipras, the miles of Quick, the health of Polakis and the bags of Papacosta." It's your tweet. I will not put it in the Minutes because it makes no sense to submit to the Minutes, because these, Mr Kyranakis, even if you believed them, when you wrote them, are Mr Mitsotakis' strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u10	But they're recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u11	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u12	No, I won't testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u13	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade. They're recorded in the Minutes as you said. So that's the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u14	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u15	I won't testify because you're a 30-four-year-old man and you have a right to mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u16	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u17	So then, unleaded petrol had 1,45 and eight minutes, now it has 1,70 and it doesn't open no nostrils and you haven't taken a prediction measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u18	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u19	However, I shall submit to the Minutes what my colleagues will bring me from the Group of the European Parliament, Mr Mitsotakis' tweet when the coffee tax has gone up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u20	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u21	I'm closing, Mr. President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u22	You've been in 20 minutes, though. You have covered your dentistry as well. You won't be given a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u23	I'm sorry. I got carried away. You'll remove it from the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u24	It's okay. This is common among speakers. But shorten up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, in ten seconds I'm done. So I will put this in the Minutes, because an orchestra of all this incredibly muddy opposition, the disgraceful of the spirit of the Greek people, will bring the Commissioner, who has supported the Ambassadors' agreement and made it his Minister, have another commissioner in his caldera and will not do so for other reasons. We will remind you of this, Mr Kyranakis and Mr Voridis, because we are a responsible opposition, because we want to become a responsible and serious government. So bring suggestions. So bring a plan, because not only are gasoline 1,46 and it's 1,80, but also because your government's fugitives are twice as much waged as those who were with Tsipras and a thousand more. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u27	There's been a report, Mr. Cyranakis. It was not offensive what he said, but you might want to clarify the content of your speech. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I would not have taken the floor if Mr Zachariad's last report had not been made. I'm going to respond to the dentistry of the rapporteurs so that I don't abuse your time. Mr. Zachariadis, why don't you submit this statement in the Minutes? I insisted. Out of microphone, I insisted. Why don't you testify to her? The whole of Greece knows her. Is that something secret? I therefore propose that all of your colleagues in SYRIZA testify to it and tell me exactly what it says and read it - and thank you for reading it - is wrong. I in that statement - you cannot understand it, but I will explain it to you, it is very simple - I have pointed out and stressed the disproportionate relationship between product and taxes, the disproportionate relationship - I repeat - of product paid by consumers and the tax. Yes, it was a disproportionate tax that the citizen paid for gasoline. And it was also disproportionate for the services, which he was accepting for the tax he pays. If you are unable to understand that health, public health in Paul Paulis was worse than the health offered by the New Democracy, it is your problem. If you are unable to understand that public order, the security offered by the New Democracy Government is much better than the security offered by Mr. Toskas, it is your problem. If you are unable to understand that SYRIZA's poster, whom you were appointing an unobjected body, did the job, which all international measurements reflect, and was depicted in the elections with the resounding result you had, the painful defeat you have suffered, is our problem. So I repeat this statement and if you want, if you have the courage, shoot it and share it with all your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u29	You've become clear, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u30	Because you have not answered me, Mr President, two years when you have put your party army on the Internet to attack me again and again, without knowing why, you have not understood the substance behind this statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u31	So, we're gonna have this conversation now? It was on staff. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u32	It's provided for by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u33	It's personal, Mr. Colleague, and I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u34	When the wording of a Member's thought is altered, it can be clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u35	Mr Colleague, you will allow me with all due respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Cyranaki, finish it up. I think you've given the clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u37	Mr Colleague, I don't often speak to the House. When I take a personal attack, like you, if you take a personal attack, I would like to hear from you. So now I will answer and answer exactly because Mr Zachariadis has spoken and six minutes more than the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Cyranaki, you were clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u39	Wait a minute, Mr. President. You let Mr Zachariadis of Anti-Population speak six minutes more than the Rules of Procedure. I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u40	You gave your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u41	I'll answer. I invite you to photocopy it so that you can share and make your self-criticism about where the taxes paid by the Greek citizens on your own government went, compare the services they receive today and the services they receive at SYRIZA, compare transparency, security, public administration, health. There is no man, Mr. Zachariadis, a man in Greece or in your party who believes that public health and the National Health System was better with Mr. Polakis than he is now. Not even a man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u43	Wait a minute, Mr. Zachariadis. You referred to a document by Mr Kyranakis. Mr. Cyranakis believes you altered the contents. That is his right to do so in accordance with the explicit provision of the Rules of Procedure. That's what he did. And what's he telling you? What you said, and you don't want to testify, testify. I don't think you can fill in anything. Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement as a special speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, at the loss of the world's Greek, Mikis Theodorakis, which we have already mentioned today and which we all have to complete today is that the touching pilgrimage of the people who dragged by thousands to pay tribute to our great creator, was added another great loss of a democratic fighter, Panagiotis Cretanos, former Vice President of the House, who was on the frontline of the Andreas Papandreou's race of the Republic, next to Andreas Papandreou, present in every effort of the great democratic party of PASOK and distinguished about the morality and the quality of his thinking. The Panagiotis Cretan will remain forever in our memory and in our hearts. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come today to talk about lobbying, considering it to be an important bill dealing with the way it even deals with an important issue. The rapporteur for Mera25 is also laughing because we talked about it yesterday in committee. The follow-up, the reading: Who is the worst now? I can't say. That's the dilemma. Is the New Democracy Worse to recommend it with all this? Are they worse than SYRIZA answering all this? They start with the Bolsheviks revolution. Mercy! Who are you talking to? You say that, because of the Revolution, we have the costumes and the riots right now, and we're out in the House? And I heard SYRIZA's rapporteur connecting - it was delightful, of course - the Revolution - says - to the suit. He didn't say the taper. Anyway, this could go to "Me Too". In any case, however, you have forgotten the great revolutions of Greece. You have forgotten that, Mr Zachariadis. You have forgotten the revolution about the great reform of 1981, about the great change, about the democratic party, about the fact that you have in our work. Even our voices are mimicable many times, and I believe the typical hat. And not only that, not only the reforms, but also the executives sitting next to you, in everything you're flirting with, the final politicians you've been compiling many times. You, rebels, who were running away when, in this Chamber, we voted for the 'Kappistria' and 'Kalikara', the big changes? Even for the highly indebted households you didn't vote. "The lads of lenses" are a delightful performance, but you know, I personally attended her in kindergarten. So this kind of revolutionary lessons, at least when we hear them from the great democratic party of PASOK, which, from where to begin and where to end, you will have to have greater respect for them and at least talk about what you are getting from, because for the rest you are not getting. My Minister, in what you are bringing us today, neither flea in your head, because the meeting of the former chairman of the committee and current GOLDMAN SACHS, of Barozoz, with the active Commissioner, took place in a Brussels beer - you saw this - how was it interpreted? It was interpreted by institutional actors in the Union and representatives of civil society as an attempt to exert unfair influence. That's what happened to him. At the same time, Pruitt, Head of the Government Office for Environmental Protection in the United States, who has adopted decrees, regulations on the environment, etc., is being highly critical - please - confronted with a study of relevant services for a lease with a well-known representative of companies supervised by the agency. So this issue, which we are discussing today, namely the exercise of influence and pressure, is also lobbying, that is, trying to get into the main part of politics and discuss and influence legislative decisions. It's nothing simple. It is a very difficult thing to do with the lights - the researchers say - in other words, it gives the opportunity to be better informed and to make the most correct legacy, but it also has the dark sides. So what do we do? Dark and bright have become one. What do dark and bright together? They make the blurred and instead of discussing this serious issue by regulating it, by deepening it, by ensuring it, by claiming it, by upgrading it, by completing it, once again miserably, reluctantly, sluggishly and fragmentedly brought this issue to Parliament, Mr Minister, and let it go from its turn. As I see it on your shoulders, you should also say that 'we did so and we got out of obligation' because, as we say, it doesn't take us any more. Eighteen years have set it in the United States, Europe, etc. Like - but you will also say this reform. I read an article yesterday saying "reform in the lobbying bill". You have a lust with the term'reformation'. It is what we say 'I want to get it, but I cannot'. In contrast, however, your obsession with this term has been reversed by the height of the cubit you have once again put. Lobbying can therefore be an extremely serious process, but it can easily lead to inappropriate influence and unfair competition, so dangerous dimensions can take to the detriment of the public interest, the well-founded interest, if applied in an immoral and irregular manner. The European Union's policy-forming arena has become the ideal place for unscrupulous lobbies, and according to a recent article by GUARDIAN, it is estimated that there are around thirty thousand lobbies in Brussels, which affect over 75% to 78% of the legislation. Many researchers have even argued that these groups have a key role to play in the formation of a government programme, defining options, affecting decisions and directing their implementation. So, what do we do here? We have to resuscitate our sleeves and find the framework in which it should be effectively, institutionally and legally regulated by strict regulations and clear wordings of lobbying. What's the big deal, Minister? The issue is that when lobbying is applied transparently, the chances of over-influence that a group can exercise with interests are minimised. So what we have to do as a legislative body is completely eliminate the possibility of unequal influence and state capture. So here you have to see the shadow lobbying, the covered and secret lobbying of the non-registered professional lobbies, which is the achilles heel of transparency. So there we have to look and insist is to give more and more voice, break the abscess of the rotating door. Do you think tomorrow that you will not be Minister, Minister, and that you will be advisor to a lobby in which you will have the first reason for these provisions that you are voting on today and so many others that you will bring during your term of office? It should also be compulsory to register in the transparency register and not voluntarily, as it is at the moment. So what are you doing? You bring a bill with strong elements of curiosity and fragmentation without consulting researchers. I have tabled to the Minutes - and I will put it again to the plenary debate - the letter that both the International Transparency and Vouliwatch have sent you and you have thrown it into the bell of the unusable. I beg your pardon, but the style of your letter, Minister, does not seem to me to be appropriate to those who are serious and have done research on the subject. So I think no one should ever answer to anyone. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelia Likaulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, I have also presented to you the annual report on the functioning of the 2020 Transparency Register, in order to see the two things we are pointing out, namely that it is below the circumstances because it does not in any case involve the institutional bodies, the political persons with whom lobby should be allowed to come into contact and the second that it is below the circumstances because the conditions of transparency are not fully clear. This draft law lays down rules on transparency, accountability and confidence for the first time, but there is no specific framework. It is a pretext for you to say that you are starting now and that, in any case, it is the first step. But that does not justify you, because firstly, you are not telling us when the second step is, secondly, you are not telling us what the second step is, and thirdly, you are not telling us what the second step is. Anyway, we're not in the '80s. We then made revolutions without being anywhere else, and now you cannot, when lobbying has completed thirty years in Europe and in America? Moon shining. ‘What is lobbying, Mom?’ You're asking today. We cannot accept that. We have made arrangements for you to include them and we have kept up with them from the outset in the debate because we are not used to doing so. We want to be serious and responsible and not to ride the rivers of the indignant. These belong to others. We want to make proposals. So answer our suggestions. Step two, why can't you do it? What's stopping you? What's the brake? Why can't you move on to what we're telling you, make a website, let each citizen have access to this website, so that every lobby can have access and the House's Committee on Institutions and Transparency can control everything from the Transparency Authority? Why can't you connect all this? What's stopping you? Or don't you want to? You want to make a bill that leaves a little bit outside, close the eye where you want and give you a margin to move in the comfort of the market, because the market don't tell me that you don't care. You're interested in the market. So you don't regulate very important things, Minister. In the case I have put before the committee and here in plenary you do not in principle cover the core of lobbying, the house lobbying. You do not regulate what exists, that is, in Greece. I have not heard you speak in your mouth and say to the committees. Why? What are you afraid to say? Who practices lobbying in Greece? Do we have professional lobbying in Greece? Do we have professional lobbies? Do we have lobby companies in Greece? We don't have one. Who's doing this job? It's usually made by legal advisers who come to your ministry, Mr. Voridis, and what do they call you? "I want to say to you, Minister, that in this provision and in this article we probably have an objection of legal - and well - supposedly - nature - and covered by lobbying, without saying it anywhere and without us knowing it. So this is an issue that you need to see. Who are you addressing Greece? In your register tomorrow morning, since you, the majority, vote on it, who will be registered as professional lobbying in Greece? I think many few, few, but unfortunately will continue to be hiding the lobbying at all levels and in all forms. We have called on you too many times to accept the proposal of the Change Movement that is a position of principle. We believe in a national integrity framework covering the whole, what is being regulated today is one inch of the national integrity framework. Why don't you bring the national framework of integrity with so many advisors, with so many people who are willing, with so many organisations and so many bodies doing systematic work on it? Why don't you make a legislative committee, so that the national integrity framework is the law of the country and that lobbying is regulated there too? You are not in line with the practices of Europe and the European Union, and unfortunately it is left outside, Minister, and very many of whom you are already associated with, for example, local government, local government trade unions, the Church recently. Didn't your government go to meet the Church even on the issue of vaccinations? Wasn't that an attempt by the Church's influence government and tumbalin and tanagalin? Uh, well, we're hiding behind our finger when we're going to make a proper piece of legislation? Can't we? Is it a curse in this country that we can all condone together to produce something right at last for something that is afflicting us and at the same time release us in the way in which we are going to handle it? But, on the one hand, others are dogmatic, others are riding the wave of indignation, others are sterile opposition, and we have been disillusioned, alone trying with responsible positions to awaken the state and say that this is the right thing to go on for the country. Because this has always been the case, leaving a huge reserve of work to you today to speak of transparency and to confess to the word which we have brought into politics. Now I would like to touch another issue, Mr Minister, where our day is apart, on what you are trying to do in self-government and in public administration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need some more time, please. You are therefore bringing regulation, Minister, with which you are deleting provisions for the mobility that SYRIZA has brought in and established. Remove a number of provisions. We've been yelling for that for a while now! You hear us, too, from your duty to shout. You don't all do away with them. One of the prisoners. Secondly, we have asked you how many people have been seconded on the basis of these provisions, but you do not answer them. We have asked you how many people are unresolved, but you do not answer us. We have asked you how many of these provisions are being touched, but you have not answered us. We have asked you what the future of all the bodies and bodies concerned with these provisions is, but you have not answered us. And you know why you didn't answer us, Minister? You didn't answer us because you don't have a plan. And that is our main difference, the decisive difference with the great democratic party of PASOK and the Change Movement. In other words, we have a comprehensive plan for local government and public administration. Where are you going? Tell us where you're going, we'll take you. We have experience in one way or another to tell you, if you want to gradually, if you want to see the public administration completely. If you want to see local government as your long arm, we disagree vertically. Tell us if you want to give her role and existence. Where are these employees going that you're stopping or not moving? Where will they find another way to move? Until when will you get the blood of the municipalities? Until when will you introduce exceptions to exceptions from time to time and until when will this bleeding of all kinds of organism with unregulated mobility not stop? We have therefore tabled a proposal to the committee, where we are telling you to stop everything now and start from the start. The exceptions only established in a repository for public administration and self-government, in which each citizen will know from whom the derogating provision is made. And so that you don't go back to the cockfighting "both did or did the other," we will always tell the world the truth about who did it, when he did it and why he did it. Repository and register, therefore, to be recorded who, what and when. And from now on, the provisions for exceptional cases only, such as force majeure, such as pandemic, for a specific reason and for a specific time, Minister, and not by way of derogation in 2016 and I repeal it in 2021. I want to make a comment because I am from both the rural area of Thessaly and Larissa and the historical Killere. It seems your awkwardness in Article 22 of the bill that passes through the change, is one of the things that the parties do not comment on. You give a stamp and a signature, we say, to the conventional tax advisors. And it is the confession of your policy failure when it comes to planning the reconstruction of the countryside. Where services have to be strengthened by scientific staff and people being helped, unfortunately, Minister, that is exactly what you have achieved there, we still have a sterile countryside that, unfortunately, is still waiting with the back of the wall and the eyes to the god! Finally, what I would like to point out is that we, Minister, expected more for this bill of lobbying. We have waited for all this experience of the European States and the United States and the people who have worked, but especially the non-governmental organisations that have done great research. We expected your government to make use of them. There is, unfortunately, a lack of good practice. It's a pasade of ideas to get away from his turn. We insist on our proposals and await your answers with your improvements. We really expect you to accept our proposals. We cannot vote in favour of your legislative proposal. It is little, just to touch our'residences', but in any case our'residences' is possible and is here, Minister, to remind you that our deposits and our great revolutions, such as transparency in the public sector and our vision of public administration and self-government, will always be here to monitor you, but above all to control you all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Yiannis Delis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, if one stays only in the titles of the bills by going beyond the contents, then it may even be impressed, just as with the bill we are discussing today and which has the resounding and no modest title: 'Strengthening of transparency and accountability to the institutional bodies of the state'. In reality, however, what is being done with today's bill is that it is legislated and formally introduced into our country, lobbying, that is to say, the representation of organised business interests in the centres and procedures for making public decisions is legally guaranteed. That's what this is about. This is the essential and basic content of today's bill, which of course contains some other regulations, both relevant and irrelevant, with the above-mentioned content. According to the draftsman of the opinion and of the relevant, of course government arguments, the bill is a first attempt to regulate the activities by which all kinds of influence is exercised by the so-called ‘lobby’ to state institutions, such as the Ministries, with the aim, as they say, of transparency and the preservation of integrity, morality and politics, and those who exercise lobbying. How will we now achieve all these nice things? According to the government bill, introducing rules that will govern and regulate all these activities of influence taking place in state institutions by business groups, of course, let us not be fooled. And the most important rule is that a natural or legal person acquires the official status of lobbyist. And you know when? It is only as long as it is included in the Transparency Register, which is set up by law. Now, if anyone is being held up and does not exclaim the match here 'Slowly, children, do not set the tail of the donkey', if it succeeds in holding on to it, then it will surely be wondered about this: to see, all these lobbying arrangements abroad, in the United States, in the European Union, which have been implemented for many years, because they have not brought any originality here, and for decades now, in the powerful capitalist countries, what have they done there? Is corruption limited? Are transactions under the table prevented because strict rules are in place for lobbies? "No", they immediately respond to the many and various international scandals that "disaster" each in the most developed capitalist countries, either the known "SIEMENS", either "NOVARTIS", or the food scandals, or the car pollutant scandals and so many others that do not see the light of publicity in the end. Is that weird? At all events, because, in reality, the so-called lobbies are nothing but what the whole world understands. These are networks of aggressive capital intervention in the state and transnational mechanisms both in the United States and in the European Union, networks to exert pressure so that the interests of business groups are directly and quickly reflected in the legislation of the Member States of the European Union, as well as in the United States. Indicative of this is a relatively recent assessment not of any accident, but of the 'APPLE' monopoly, according to which one of the reasons for the imposition of sanctions against 'APPLE' by the European Commission for certain unfair tax arrangements, as the company says, was the relaxation of the operation of its own lobby in the European Union. "They didn't get our job tight," says "APPLE", her lobbyists. It is also a post a few days ago in the electronic version of 'Kathemerini', according to which business groups in the technology sector have recently been using the institutionalised lobby, the one that will be introduced into our country, I would ask you to put pressure on the policy of the European Union. Very expensive, boy, these pressures eventually! And among them, guess who they are! They are a number of business colleges like 'GOOGLE', 'MICROSOT' and 'FACEBOOK'. And you know why they spent so much money? They spent them in order to oppose stricter legislation that would curtail their power and profits. And now the rapporteur of the New Democracy is coming here and calls on the trade unions to do the same, to do the same, to do the same lobbying, that is, to give up some struggles, some marches, some demonstrations and all such annoying things. Let us therefore inform the rapporteur of the New Democracy that the class-oriented trade union movement has chosen the class struggle and that is a good thing to digest. But your calls are addressed. He is the government, the employers' union, which is increasingly pushing on this lobbying tactic, instead of playing real, classic games. And that is, of course, why it is constantly devalued in the conscience of the workers. It is a common place, however, and a very common reality in the European Union and the European Parliament, that business groups, along with their production and marketing departments, also operate lobbying sections. And these lobbying departments have infrastructure, numerous and coarsely paid staff who have contact with officials of the European Union Commissioners' offices, the Ministerial Offices themselves, the Commissioners, the Ministers, with political groups and parties, with MEPs, in other words, all who participate in any way and property in the formation of legislation, and, of course, all of them, in order to serve the interests of these monopolistic groups. These lobbying sections also operate at European and national level, converging with the natural associations of capitalists. In the European Union, for example, BUSINESS EUROPE is the Greek Industrial Association. A number of 'no' - within many introductorys - government organisations which serve business interests in this cloak. It is the whole network that ultimately shapes, along with civil servants and Euro-Union legislation. It's all known. Everyone who has an idea of the elementary in Brussels knows that it is ordinary practical legislative texts, directives of the European Union and very specific formalities written out by the various lobbys to sign and table themselves as amendments to the European Parliament by dozens of MEPs belonging to different urban national political parties and political groups of the European Parliament, thereby of course promoting the demands and interests of businesses. Needless to note, of course, that behind the literal photography of many times details of such amendments for some, for example, fewer or more micrograms of pollutant emissions from cars or alphas, beta or gamma technical specifications of certain machinery - understandable all of them in a very narrow circle of experts - there are millions of profits for businesses in a sector and literally they are falling body in the area of competition between them. On this very ground, a greenhouse, as a natural result, is cultivated and all trades, the involvement of business interests with the political staff of capital, of course, emerging all the malnutrition of capitalist fissures, whose lobbys are certainly not an exception to it, but an integral part of it. With regard to the multi-advertised Transparency Memorandum and the obligation to register in it, which is also established in our country with the bill we are discussing, as far as we know, wherever it has been implemented - and it applies to several countries - it has not prevented corruption, nor has it interfered with. On the contrary, since the lobbyists of business groups have acquired the official, institutionalised right now to perpetuate undisturbed and with the bogeyman of this register now in the corridors of the European Parliament and the other institutions of the European Union, to organise meetings, presentations, interventions and visits by MEPs, officials of the European Union. In short, they will feel and behave at home. Some of them, even using the passage of so-called'revolving doors', move from his post political to the role of lobbyist. Don't go far. We all remember Baroz as President of the European Commission. Some time, then, after the end of his term of office, he took up a high management position in the banking group called 'GOLDMAN SACHS'. The German Chancellor now Schröder, before his term of office, was recruited as a senior executive in the GAZPROM energy giant. Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, and former NATO Secretary General Javier Solana - unforgettable! - after these positions were converted into high-level consultants from large multinational companies around the world. I'm stopping here. There are many examples. Saying, like the government now, that you are strengthening transparency by setting a time limit of eighteen months before such shifts and rotations of roles occurs to mean that you are either naive, you are not, or you are fooling around. It would be closer to the truth to say that all these bourgeois politicians before becoming lobsters also need an eighteen months' rest and an adaptation for their new tasks. Now all this 'transparent' and so much 'corruption' the government is seeking by its bill to introduce them to officially function in our country too! And the JRC, apparently, is the only party that is fundamentally and radically opposed to it. The rest of the urban parties, regardless of what they finally vote on at first, openly state their agreement with the law of lobbying. They may have individual objections and disagreements, they may express differing views on the extent of the arrangements, but they may, for example, table creative proposals to the government on the subject of lobbying certainly demonstrate their agreement at the outset of the bill, which is something that they do not deny. They're just saying they'd bring in a better version of the lobbying. What can we say now? You're either a system bearer or you're not. Half the jobs we're going to do? But when we tell them that, they are disturbed and told that this is the reality of capitalism and that it can be improved. This argument is indeed characteristic that the Minister himself took advantage of it and used it in the last committee to respond to the criticism of the JRC. Well, there is no greater historical lie than that. That's what life says. Because everything around us now calls us that this barbarity and the rottenness of the system that we live do not take either pretext or retourism of so-called transparency. The only thing that should be reversed is, of course, the guiding thread of the political party of the Communist Party of Greece. Whoever opposes it, then, with this barbaric capitalist reality, then strives to tear it down with the people and doesn't think day after night how it will regulate this barbarism to cover it up, as the Mera25 does. Let's say the Transparency Register does not just legalise the intervention of business groups in the formulation of legislation. He's doing something else just as bad. It seeks to create that territory at the same time, in order to give the people a belief that it is perfectly normal, that it is not only legitimate for business groups to press - well, that you cannot prevent it - in their interests, but that it is fair and reasonable to define even legislation. That's what's trying to do with the bill. However - we say - for the workers and the people - it is not a matter of knowing whether, and with whom, as many times as the representatives of the monopolies meet with their political staff, but of knowing, the people are aware that the civil system as a whole in our country, everywhere in the European Union, is committed to serving the interests of capital, first of all, and that is why they are breaking their lives and their rights. And that is what is intended to be summarized in bills like this, namely the class anti-grassroots interests which serve the bourgeois state, the European Union, the governments of urban management, the Member States of the European Union. As far as the rules of conduct are concerned, the democratic accountability and transparency which will allegedly be imposed on business lobbys, apart from the fact that they are intended to play the role of the trolley for the very strong business interests, which collide in and out of state and government corridors, these - rules, transparency and others - are not ashes, however, in the eyes of the workers in order to obscure the class character of the state and believe, that the people can believe that by rules of transparency and accountability, great interests can be controlled and can finally stop the phenomena of corruption and sepsis that are always revealed. Lobbying is always where the interests of business groups are settled with the urban state and there is neither good nor bad lobbying. Lobbying is one and always has the same purpose: to shield and increase the profits of business groups. Finally, because we have no intention of watering the garden with delusion, as you are all doing with the control and transparency of capitalist competition, which is increasingly annoying, in a capitalist competition that does not know limits because it is not in the nature of knowing limits when it comes to profit, for all these reasons we are of course voting against the bill. In the second instance, we will be putting a number of articles in the third part and in the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you would understand from the first rapporteur that your bill before he could even take a breath in plenary. The conversation went on in other issues. Perhaps it is also the news of this or it is the incomplete interest in what you are now legislating. Mr President, there has been a lot of talk and I shall refer to the substance of the bill. In fact, we are wondering how serious it is for us to talk here and say whether the MPs were vaccinated and who were not vaccinated. In other words, where and how will a rapporteur go up to tell us who was vaccinated or not? I really do. We're bored, Minister, to hear about the level of politics, to be Twitter policy, what you wrote ten years ago, what I wrote five years ago. Very serious policy, Twitter policy! What can I really say? We got bored, Mr. Vorides, to compare both of you and, in a rally of incompetence, to who is less incompetent than the two, who made greater miserable, more mistakes. Awesome! Mr rapporteur of the New Democracy, because we think that everything has a limit, okay, now not to talk about public order issues and a sense of security that you have said. The fact that SYRIZA failed in this area does not mean that you have succeeded. You have already failed in this area. Don't talk about the health sector where you've done this mess and you anointed Plearis as a special comando now to make it worse. Don't talk about keeping hospitals tight, about how for the first time there are no surgery, tens, hundreds of nursing staff and doctors on parole. Don't talk about the health sector. Leave the posters - I don't get into the micropole - where there is a party and a fair and with the "blue" kids and the "pink" children and the "green" children used to be the oldest. And since everything has a limit, for God's sake, is it possible for the New Democracy to speak - my comment has no personal means, Mr. Rapporteur of the New Democracy, will I speak about your party, your government - for party armies that control the Internet? You, the "principals" of the internet, which you download Twitter, which you lock accounts with the anti-Hoaxes, through which you control everything, filter everything, millions of trolls, at the same time, at the same time fall below, comment, check, download. You're talking about party armies that you control the media? Are you talking about party armies online? He's a nerve to that thing! Brain! He's really a nerve! Incredible things! Do you think we're seeing this between us, that people aren't listening outside? Can't he hear that New Democracy is talking about party armies online today when you control each cursor, every key, every screen of each computer out there? You're checking everything out. Everything. It's a disgrace! Mr Vorides, we have said many times from this Step, when you institutionalise such practices as today's bill, you need to consider whether they can be incorporated into our country, that is, if our country with the great weaknesses, with the great weaknesses it faces, is able to incorporate these unfamiliar practices, unfamiliar models into national legislation in the name of modernization and evolution. I am sorry to say this, but with this bill you legislate, you are actually legalising the influence of interests. This is lobbying, influence of interest. To be honest, for the Greek citizens, for the suffering Greek people, with so many problems due to your own government choices, but also your own omissions, bringing a bill for lobbying while the country burns and sinks - I told you in committee - it's like the "Titanic" and you're ordering another cocktail to drink. That's what you're doing. The "Titanic" sinks, and you uncomfortable orders another drink. That's it. That's what it looks like here today. You are - your government I mean - out of place and in time. You're far from the citizen. You have no sense of what's going on there. You have a microphone every day, you have a place to wait for you in a hospitable TV panel and start catechism from morning till night. Don't you know what's going on out there? Don't you see the world indignant? How will the Prime Minister go up to the PM? Only the Army didn't get to the streets to go up the weekend at the D.T.O. Now, really, is lobbying the government's legislative priorities? Excuse me, the lobbying? Don't you see that you have shrinked the incomes of the Greeks and now you give the Greeks, the households and businesses, with the increases, with the massive rises, with the 15% increase in oil, the biscuits, the frozen food, the dairy, 8% in fruit and vegetables, 5% in fruit, the price of coffee 50% above? Isn't that all packed up? Tell us what the Prime Minister's PM? Deteriorated pensioners have been proclaiming a rally for October. There will be total appreciation of five hundred products, and we are talking about lobbying. Fast, PPC. Come on, this is a global phenomenon, you'll tell us, too much demand, increased products, increased transport. Where's Mr. Hatzidakis? To come here to tell us why the Greek pays the most expensive electricity in Europe. In August - I say it so as not to blame you, because this works like the Stock Exchange, that is every month or every day the price can be changed - we have a record of Europe at the current price. We are always here in the metals. If we don't have the gold, we have the silver or the copper. At the base of accuracy in the current, we're sure. I'm not talking about it! Greece has always had one of the highest wholesale prices in Europe. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the Minutes we do not submit them for no reason. Read it, check it out. For the expensive current, who's to blame? The drought in Brazil, as the Greek Solution correctly mentions in its communication? The climate change? Who's responsible? Tell us. Europe's current price record. And while the Greek is sighing, Mr. Rapporteur, who in your face, in the face of the Minister, the Parliamentary Representative and the other MPs, today we see the New Democracy, and you have told us that you do not control, that there are no party armies on the internet, to tell you about the very great fraud and dishonesty that took place with the blessing of the New Democracy by enforcing its trolls. On Friday, Mr President, we had a bill for immigration, a bill that had presented to us before, his menu, what will all the illegally entering - terrible, when the Greeks are hungry! - with superstitions in NGOs that will attempt with the Port - instead of closing them you give them superstition -, with the granting of an autonomous residence permit to those who are not entitled to it, with health care, while the Greek does not become surgery and cannot get his pension to go to take his medicine, will appeal those who do not get permission and move freely and will be lost in Athens as ghosts. This bill Mr.Metarakis had the courage to ask the Greek Solution to vote for it. And it is true that we did not vote for it. It's a conscientious, undeniable bill that we would never vote for. And you took off your trolls: Greek Solution did not vote, says the immigration bill. We don't even applaud you with all the disgrace it included! So the party armies are yours. Those of you who govern this government because it is a government which is not governed by your Members and that is unbelievable. With what courage, Mr Voridis, will your Prime Minister or the New Democracy ask for in the next elections to the Greek citizen and say to him "vote to us, I have sufficient staff"? Who? Most of them are out-of-party, not MPs. You don't have enough managers? What has happened to the remodelling that I will link to the lobbying, Mr President, is indeed a political clairvoyant. We waited a week. Here's the bridegroom! We found him yesterday who the Minister would be. Awesome! How Mr Mitsotakis will ask for a vote, with what courage when he admits that he has no members, he does not have MPs. They're not capable of commanding, they're unable to have ministries, they're not capable of anything. I'm not saying it. I may have another point of view. We don't say that. We might say you're the best or I don't know what. We're not saying that. We're talking about what your Prime Minister says because that's what he's showing. And Mr. Stylianides is here. Who's Mr. Stylianides? Very good, it's in Europe, etc. You know he's a child of ELIAMEP. Are you telling the Greek voters, traditional voters of the New Democracy, the Right of Tradition, that Mr Stylianides is a child of ELIAMEP? That it was in favor of the Ethnic Plan Annan? You say so? Of course Cyprus is Greece - first of all we call it the one - and a single defence line with Cyprus and an EEZ with Cyprus. Cyprus is Greece. But don't you have a steward, guys? For God's sake! An executive put it there. Generals have here, your commanders, everything you have within fifty-eight. There was one, wasn't there? Transcription from the outside? Bosman Law and politics? It doesn't work for a stranger, though. I'm fine! Cyprus is Greece. We did. You referees in football. We don't have good referees, Mr. Voridis, and we bring out. This is a confession of failure and inability of government officials. And get out of here. That's what you're doing. And now let's go to what you're legislating. The influence of interests on state institutions. In other words, you are legitimate - to understand the term 'lobbying' - to exert pressure from forces in the state, from the state, from the institutional bodies. And you tell us that you are doing this to achieve transparency, accountability and integrity, that you are trying to put the influences in order, that there are mechanisms that can affect the bodies that are formulating public policies. Really? Really, is New Democracy doing this? Do you legalise interest interventions because they identify and define your policies? What transparency are you talking about, New Democracy? What transparency are you talking about? For what straightforward purity in the transactions of interests? For these practices with which you give millions to the media, which you give them gifts and bonuses of millions of euros? Isn't it lobbying media control? Isn't that lobbying, which, from morning to night, mock you and terrorize the Greeks and give the rhythm and purpose and the rest dance to that end? Isn't that lobbying? What's that now? Is that clear institutional bodies and transparency and openness and purity? What's this? For your policies that are being promoted by various groups - your Prime Minister is particularly sensitive to various groups, entities and communities - to the NGOs, which you are giving them overpower and instead of controlling and closing them, you are giving them other benefits? Your decisions on direct assignments and you dare talk? To sell national property? Mr Dendias comes out and says 'we do not want gas'. Who are you, Mr. Dendia, you talking about our country doesn't want gas? Avoid this huge asset and weapon of Greece. National contractors, technical companies for your plan to fill our homeland with wind turbines, which are so toxic and so harmful. I would like to ask you something that I told you in committee, Mr Voridis. Is it possible to talk about lobbying when a week ago, with the remodeling, has the club become? Not lobbying, but businessmen and lads were slaughtered in the apron of Ministers. Who? The ones influencing. This big family wanted this minister. The other big family was pressing for the other minister to enter. This is unbelievable lobbying form. Lobbying and brains in the bars! You legislate the lobby two days after the remodeling, which was in full effect the lobbying in Greece by entrepreneurs, interests, who will put his own Minister. You think people don't see that? And we're coming in for a pretext today to talk about lobbying! How nice! Okay. There is no accountability for a card and a little transparency. The dignity and transparency demanded by the world are not coffee with a little. There must be in the complete form. This magic word, deserve and lack of dignity - and all the research says - is the one that pushed and forced thousands of young children, our children, to leave abroad. This is not just a question of lack of democracy in the public sector. We're talking about suspicious transactions. We're talking underground currents. We're talking about intertwiners. We're talking about hatred, about corruption from base to top of state, to institutional institutions all. So the question of a law is neither the vows, nor the announcements, nor then tell us: “And well, what should we do? Do not make a start?’ Lobbying is not a matter of legislation. It's a matter of mentality. And because the mentality in Greece and especially in politics is rotten and we have given the world, obviously because it can be so, that always politicians and politics depend on somewhere, on some underground currents, on some great interests, whatever you do to legislate, that will exist. It's over. That's the reality. And I want to go now. You regulate with such a bill the influence of interests not to move uncontrolledly and to have transparency. How this can be done when you do not even define in the law who the institutions are. You don't specify it, you don't say who they are. What are the institutions? What do we define? That's it, elo. The institutions affected are alpha and omega. Isn't that what all the representatives of bodies we're talking about? Yet even that is why you refer to opinions and ministerial decisions. The same applies, Mr Vorides, to representatives of bodies. So, as the bill is formulated, it is not clear which groups it includes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll say a good one. We pointed out at the committee's meetings how loose the whole framework you are legislating on the conditions, obligations and sanctions provided for in the bill is. We are pleased that we have heard your rapporteur in committee mention some changes - we have proposed them - in terms of tightening up legislation. However, administrative fines should be too high. In other words, when we talk about a turnover of these influences, we talk about millions of billions. By putting a fine of 5,000 to 40,000 laughing, it's pocket money for them. Penal sanctions, not only fines, must be imposed for these interests. A little comment, Mr President, will be made. I'll run because I can't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u49	Finish it, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u50	I'll be done in a minute. A little comment on the independent authorities will be made. Again, the National Transparency Authority. We have more than thirty - thirty-five independent authorities in Greece, which cost more than EUR 1 billion. Only AIA costs 0.5 billion. Independent authority again? As a Greek solution, we have said: we cannot agree to the exercise of public policy and power by independent authorities, to replace the state, the state, the government, the MPs, the Greek Parliament. We are not obsessed, but we say the state has an obligation to exercise public authority. So you cannot dismiss responsibilities and obligations from above. You put an independent authority, pay a fool Greek. I'm closing, Mr. President. I wanted to say that the real lobbying cannot be framed, the real lobbying cannot be controlled, because the lobbying that affects governments and shapes policies does not enter molds. Lobbying works behind the scenes. Lobbying is here. It's not a matter of legislation. It's a matter of mentality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. Angeliki Adamopoulou, a special buyer from Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have become today also a multitude of spectators of the bipartite classic toy between the New Democracy and SYRIZA, the well-known cockfighting, which has completely disoriented the debate from the subject of the bill. There have been uproots to revolutions. Political history lessons, that is, we have actually heard today. If we want that sort of thing, we don't have to. We can revert to the sources. Finally, stop insulting, underestimate the intelligence of the Greek people with such communication tactics, purely impressive tactics. So I'll talk about the bill myself. Unfortunately, we also see on this initiative by the Government, Minister, that levels of satisfaction in relation to the quality of the bill and in the intention of efficiency in regulating this problem, we see that levels are low. We have heard serious objections from various organizations in committee. We didn't tell you, that's all we did. We also heard objections and reservations from Vouliwatch, which has done an excellent job from the Greek annex to the International Transparency, which as bodies have cooperated. But, in the end, we have seen, Mr Minister, that you have not been moved by the point of view of operators nor by ours. You told us a little too much that the lobbying in Greece must be institutionalised, because it is almost nonexistent or poorly developed, and that is why we should accept these anaemic provisions you have brought, the inappropriate provisions, which, in most cases, leave most of them unregulated, most of them influential. In short, of course, the JRC has also told us, which has denounced us of our attitude. What is the JRC actually doing? He wants this practice to remain unregulated, his lobbying practice. It accepts it, on the one hand, as a capitalist reality, but, on the other, it should not be regulated, it should be allowed to perpetuate, perpetuate this lobster between institutional and pressure groups, to lobbies. That is what we understand from the JRC's attitude. Minister, we do not know exactly what you have in mind in relation to the lobbying but not just myself, I am sure that many remember it, I will repeat an e-mail sent by Mr. Guardis of NOVARTIS to the Prime Minister in Kyriakos and suggested some friends' names to him to organise a support dinner in September 2015, where friends, note, ten directors of companies such as JOHNSON&JOHNSON, "EUROBANK", "SANOFI", "TAXIBEAT", "FAMAR", then President of the American Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Arkoumanias, who then had a public relations company and was later placed in the CPVO and the EVO by the Prime Minister himself. Furthermore, the whole society knows about the work that you brought in was on the basis of the Greek Industrial Association and the large retailers, just as we know the legislative favours you made and make to the Latsis Group in relation to your adorable, your favorite gambling project in Greek. But otherwise in Greece we don't have lobbying. That's the conclusion. To talk about the recent developments in relation to the remodeling we always have a front page of the newspaper "BIBLE OF KYRIAKIS", but also articles of the newspaper "NEA" which target the nephew of the Prime Minister, who is also the director of his Office, Mr. Gregory Dimitriadis, for whom - I do not know if it is true, I say what has been recorded - leave heavy implied financial assumptions and provisions. It was then written in the reformation that Mr Chryssohoidis was replaced because the moveable negative opinion and opinion of the multi-regulated nephew and prime minister prevailed for some time. "Whoever," he says, "Tree if you raise armaments, sanitary supplies underneath you will find him." Who did you finally hear, Minister, in this bill? Definitely not International Transparency and Vouliwatch because both parties have denied it. They said that this bill when it was first drawn up there was no legislative committee. They first saw it on the open consultation website. Unfortunately, no legislative committee has been set up, as it should have been for such an important initiative, and that in short they have never been called upon to contribute to the preparation of the provisions. On the contrary, you are said to have had contacts with representatives of private sector business to create a sound institutional framework for lobbying. I am referring specifically to the press release of July 1st of the Ministry of the Interior, which states that these contacts include the Corporate Affairs and Communications Cycle, a forum for the heads of company affairs and communication of foreign and large Greek companies, organized by the Public Affairs and Networks, which says: "We are a company of public affairs consultants and provide our services to foreign multinationals active in Greece and to large Greek companies. We're public relations professionals. We know the policy. We know its shapers and its protagonists." So what do we know? The lobbying. "We know how the system works on its political and bureaucratic level. We know first of all what a business needs today in the field of public and universal rights. In fact, the founder has worked on both sides of the river, in business and politics, and is a writer of the books "The lobbying in Greece" and "The lobbying in Brussels". According to the Ministry, with the press release, members of the Corporate Affairs and Communications Cycle have thus vaguely tabled their fertile proposals for the bill. In short, it is the lobbies who laid down the bill for lobbying. Yannis is buying, he's drinking. You got the wolf guarding the sheep. Furthermore, Minister, in order to put an end to this voluntary misinformation campaign that we heard in committee, because you returned and said it yesterday after the explanations I gave and the analysis I have made, you said that we consider that there is good and bad lobbying depending on origin. That's how you want maniacs to present things. What we have said and said again, and I hope you can hear me, and you want to understand me is that we agree with the valid international studies, which say that the more money spreads a lobby the more effective it achieves its objectives. In fact, I said that these are the deep pockets that buy and ensure the privileged treatment of the institutions that these pressure groups want to influence. If you now think that the workers' associations have the resources to make available for their influence with industrialists and businessmen, just come and tell us to draw our conclusions. What we said in the final analysis is that we are expressly asking you to publish electronically and to update every day the programme of meetings of any institution regardless of origin with anyone who requests a hearing. So the question is you who sees the distinction between good and evil lobbying. We said everything in the light, and that means all in the light, all appointments along with their agenda, no footnotes, no exceptions, no misunderstandings. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to leave the impressions and the victorious distortions because it has been recorded in the Minutes too clearly, what I have said and what I have said. Get back to the bill. So the New Democracy says in the explanatory statement that it is intended to ensure integrity, transparency and accountability. What's he doing about it? It excludes the scope - I will say again - the so-called in house lobbying, the employees of companies practicing on behalf of their employers without receiving a special fee. You say that on a fee. So, in short, instead of an outside partner, one of your lobbias employees, so you think you've got out nicely and nicely. It also excludes lobbying by representative bodies and associations such as the Association of Greek Industrialists, the Association of Greek Shipowners and so on. Finally, legal companies that are also active in the exercise of influence are excluded. So what does the bill actually cover? Only consultancy companies. And what doesn't? The majority, the largest volume of lobbying conducted in Greece. It is certainly not possible to say that it is a guarantee of integrity, transparency and accountability. Let's go to the Transparency Register. What are you doing? A hole in the water, a simple index and nothing more. Political meetings with lobbyists will not be recorded. Well to say this is not being observed in the Ministries when, for example, we have meetings of the Minister, I say now, working with employers and workers. There is no record of the political meetings with the lobbyists, nor of any meeting agenda, nor of any specific agenda, nor of whom were they present, nor of whom did the lobbyists represent, nor of whom did they meet, nor of whether the lobbyist or members of his direct family were in the past in an institution or anything. And of course, no one will have the supervisory role. No supervisory role will have the Transparency Register nor will it be possible for citizens to exercise control. Also once a year will lobbies registered in this logbook also declare their related activities. In other words, a pensioner, who submits a tax declaration and has little income, has more responsibility than the responsibilities created by the Transparency Register for the lobbyist. Another very dark point: no sanctions are foreseen for political persons when they are subject to influence without the conditions of the law being met. So there is no consequence for the institutions in these cases. The Ministry is talking about ensuring transparency, integrity, etc. I sincerely would like you, Minister, to tell me where all of these things are being viewed, but also the obstacles associated with those who have influence, we will see cases of people who have been sentenced to active bribery in a short sentence, due to alleviating factors, that they will be able to continue the spectacular work of the lobby and have contacts with institutional bodies. The conclusion of the bill and the provisions was therefore very well formulated by the relevant civil society. There has been an important opportunity for our country, too, finally, to have a firm framework for the regulation of the lobby. A barbecue! And I'm stressing it sturdy and I'm going to explain why. This draft law is inadequate and certainly poorer than corresponding legislative initiatives from other Member States of the European Union. I stress the steadfastly, because you told us that we lawyers know that the law must have a generality and should not be exhaustive. The space between general and exhaustion is very great, Mr Minister, and there is also the average solution. The average solution is that the law could be formulated and the cases it envisages make the law more firm and more adequate, without necessarily being exhaustive. I'll finish with two things. One is that you have made a reference to the honourable Member, in fact, Members of the SYRIZA and Lappa, whom I very much respect, I very much appreciate, is indeed an important legal and very moral person - a rare thing in politics - who you said made references, comments on the exhaustive listing, we had to have a number of exhaustive deeds, as a coma to influence a lobbyist and you said that this remark is being listened to very carefully by Mr Lappa, and you are probably not going to go as well as you have listened very carefully and the penalty framework proposed by Mr Lappas and that from the two years on hand, you are probably going to bring it down. I have one question, Minister, because I was really surprised at these comments, because you said in the previous committee that Mr Lappas did them, I do not know if you heard me, but I did them as a special buyer. You made no mention of my face, only mention Mr. Lappa. It's really a wonder, I don't want to believe in anything to do with being a woman congressman, being a new MP, that I'm also a lawyer? Anyway, it's a surprise to me! You have every right to refer to wherever you want, I have every right to interpret. I'm finishing with Cuba mentioned by Mr. Cyranakis. It makes you very surprised, Mr Kyranakis, the New Democracy's rapporteur, who has a higher corruption rate than Cuba. If possible, I wonder why you have this question. Let me remind you that Cuba, because we also have the health issue, is a country with a very effective national health system, which your Government wants to privatise - which is why I mention a national health system - and that on the subject of the pandemic it has been shown that its vaccines are effective by 92%. It is doing research on the monoclonal antibodies you do not want to deal with, it has recorded the fewer cases, it has authorised the release of the patent to vaccines for the poor countries, and you are supporting the company monopolies and the non-liberation of the patent. In any case, you really wonder about Cuba, which also accepts sewing and embargo from the United States of America, which tries with various acts that stimulates....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u53	Please complete, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u54	... to destabilise the situation in Cuba. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. Before giving the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, I will give the floor for three minutes to the Deputy Prime Minister to develop the amendment by a general number of 1060.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u56	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u57	He has to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u59	It's okay now, you understand about them. Three minutes, he has an obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u60	Yes, but ask for permission noblely. You're a noble man.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, the formality and the right thing was to give you the floor. He's got a duty. It's done, it's a practice, the world isn't lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u62	Yes, but first ask the president for permission to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u63	Yeah, yeah. So please, Mr President, your understanding. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I thank Mr Velopoulos. I am here to support the amendment by general number 106, which in essence relates to a necessary addition to Article 50(3) of Law No 4779/2021. What's the history of the case? In March 2020, paragraph 3 of Article 86 of Law 4674 provided for the possibility of setting up specific planned programmes for the financial support of newspaper publishers affected by the circumstances of the coronary. In February 2021, with a view to finding objective aid criteria for the implementation of this programme, the coverage for the reasons from 2017 to 2020 of 2% of the employers' contributions to the EDEAP, i.e. the Fund, the Journalists' Auxiliary Insurance Scheme, was set as a funding programme. Moreover, in February 2021 the same provision extended the scope of the law to other information media enterprises to support their operation and include regional television stations, radios and the press. Under this provision, we said that the payment would be made as follows: To the beneficiaries who had not paid their contributions to the EDPS, the payment would be made directly to the agency by the Government. Secondly, for beneficiaries who had paid all their contributions, they would be assigned to themselves and those who had paid part, a percentage of themselves and one to the body. So we come today, with this amendment, to extend the beneficiaries further, so that they can benefit from the aid and the electronic press companies, namely those who are obliged to pay these contributions. This is a reasonable development, it was omission which had not been included, since the electronic press, among other things, is also an employer of dozens of journalists in the country, support for workers and the maintenance of existing jobs and the prevention of the deterioration of the working environment is a priority for the government, not only in the media area but also in general. To keep the people of the electronic press out of the aid was unfair and could evenly be taken as devaluation or targeting of the industry, and I therefore call on you to approve the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u65	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, has the floor. To complement that, since you had given your consent in the past, I had your alleged will.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u66	It was on the point of order. Thank you very much, Mr President. After the Minister's intervention, I would like it to be IDDs every day, Minister. Every day, could he have an ID in Thessaloniki? For Thessaloniki, especially the sites. You did well. But for Thessaloniki, especially the gifts to go to D.O. Okay, we've been doing these since '74. A modernist government should at least be more careful. You know what I mean, it's okay, let's actually go. What do I mean? What the Prime Minister is afraid of, reacting to Thessaloniki, they already have many things and unfortunately for Thessaloniki is the most unfair city in Greece together with the region anyway. The subway will see it in 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 and all the weird things you would do, Minister, that you would implement, that you would make to get out of town from its misery. A city which, unfortunately, is also wronged by itself many times by the representation of MPs and ministers. I forgot, there are no ministers from Thessaloniki. I made a mistake now. As far as I know, Thessaloniki doesn't have any ministers. It's the love that the Prime Minister feeds for Macedonia. It shows it in practice every time for Thessaloniki. Let's go down. Let's go to the bill, Mr. Voridis, for Lobbying. In the country of pimps, as your Prime Minister said, we are talking about lobbying, Minister. It's laughing. So if Costas Karamanlis listens to us, the second one will laugh, fall under laughing. In the pimp country we're talking about lobbying. There is no need for Greece lobbying, since people control ministers, they put ministers together, they fight for who goes to the Ministry of Public Order, for who goes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they place people of their own. Don't we know that? Clearly we don't know. Does anyone know them in here? Oh, no. Cuba is better than Greece. We are talking about tragic situations. I'm smiling, but they're down. You want to make a law about it? Copy the American law. Do it, as you say about the tax system. Copy the American model. So what does the American lobbying model say? Listen. It's not enough to pass a law or affect the whole House. You must influence the Senate, the President, the Supreme Court. In Greece if one controls the Prime Minister, if he is a friend of the Prime Minister - because the Prime Minister is a very good man and has many friends, all Prime Ministers have many friends - served. They're being served by the fewer men. You don't have to do it lobbying. They do it themselves. How's American law? It imposes public disclosure on the activity and financing of lobbys. Does your law do that? Also, what does the American legislator do to the U.S.? It sets limitations on funding and gifts for members of Congress and staff. There is a compulsory disclosure of expenditure limits. That's what the Americans do about the lobbys, they gave birth to the lobbys and they did well. Senators, for two years after they left, are not allowed to put pressure on service. It is forbidden to put pressure on the Senate for one year. It's forbidden in private business. Here he laughs at every bitter one. Here, governments are pushing every businessman to suit his own people. Oh, I forgot. I'm wrong. Governments consider the state to be their own shop and at their party offices various people who vote for New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement. I could say a lot of things. But what I want to say, Mr Vorides, is that there are some things that no one needs to call to understand how Greece, the state of Bavaria, has been governed by pimps. This is our country. I don't have anything with the businessmen, because I'm a businessman too, but I'm small. I'm not one of your friends. I'm not your enemy either. I'm a small businessman. But these big businessmen are state-owned. All the big businessmen in our country are state-owned. I can tell you again: all the big businessmen in the country are state-owned! And I'm not ashamed to say names. Mr. Koplouzos, gas, state. Mr. Mytileneus, Mr. Vardinoyannis. All these people are businessmen, and they do well - and they make money, but they're state-owned. They eat and drink from the state. He's not an investor who produces a product that gives goodwill to his export. They're state-owned. What lobbying are we talking about now? How much are we gonna make fun of the world? So take the American law and apply it, Mr. Voridis. And if there's something wrong with the Americans who are the last country in the world, fix it that you're first. They did. You brought us a law where it goes from everywhere. It's your well-known tactic. We are legislating to have a state of pluralism, a state with infinite laws that do not apply, are violated many times, but, in any case, we have laws. Now we're going to the worst in the economy. Mr. Minister, Mr. Voridis, I will tell you what the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement have achieved. Greece's debt: 236% of GDP. Japan: 234%. But Japan has an advantage. He has huge reserves of loans, bonds, US debt securities. But it does. Here, it's the great mystery. We are a country which does not produce, which means that it cannot trade and export, and what it produces, in any case, is not comparable to Japan's production. So we're champions in debt. And this was achieved by the New Democracy, and unfortunately, by SYRIZA and Change Movement together. You did it. Turn them on the fruits of your success. I will submit this to the Minutes for the Greeks to remember. The worst of all is that while we recapitalised the banks, ladies and gentlemen, all, with Greek people's money, with Greek guarantee. The Greeks' livelihood guaranteed that the banks would get a lot of money and be recapitalized. Banks, in the second half, have revenue - listen - about 3.6% to 33% from commissions. They survived four times, we put the project "HRAKLIS", but they continue to be lucrative of Greeks' money. Stop the legitimate loan sharks, the bankers we paid with blood, to take and drink the blood of the Greek people, Mr Voridis. Stop them at last! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And because I was talking about friends and some people were disturbed in the New Democracy, you know, I sympathize with the Members of the New Democracy. I understand them. The simple analogue creates problems in their resistance, because they fear they will not be elected MPs. But I will tell them one thing: all that remains in a political presence is his political dignity. Remember that by the Members of the New Democracy. You have brought an amendment, a scandal, which, under Article 12 of the Minister of Labour, entitled 'Guarantee regulation', you are really Blackjack. What did you do? You give the possibility to casinos with a new application for the extrajudicial compromise to reopen. You give this possibility to a type of unbelievable, who owes 150 million to Piraeus Bank, 40 million to Efca. I am saying this to understand what your Government, the government of citizens, the oligarchs, the government of friends, pimps, the government that has been working, as it has been operating for forty years as subordinates to the oligarchs. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's the truth. And when Greek owes 20 grand of you to take his house, take his field, take his car, get his life, take his pride, dignity. That's wrong. This mistake we will always highlight. The state, you, the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, legislated something very good, Mr. Voridis. If you owe the public, you can't participate in any competitions. Exquisitely right. How can you participate in the elections when you owe 350 million each and 280 million each? How's it going? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] This is what the Greek people see. I am sure he sees them and in the next elections no reform will save you. Within two years, you have reached the deficits of over 30 billion. You borrowed 41 billion and charged the Greek people with another 41 billion. Half the country burned. The damage 30 billion. We had a lockdown for eight months. Damage five billion a month. Huge sums. I will say this: do more crimes, which you do not see. And they don't have to know everything. Over the past twenty years, all governments have made our country a Turkey's energy hostage. We are relying on energy from Turkey, because we only shut down the lignites, to buy power - listen - from Albania, Skopje and Turkey. The hostage of hostile countries! It's never happened before! The Greek hostage of the distributions of Albanians, Macedonians and Turks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And you did this to close the lignite plants. I ask you: why should the Greeks, the citizen, pay more money? I ask you, the newly-democratic Members, who voted a few months ago a law by Mr Hatzidakis, who pledged here that electricity would be cheaper. And the Prime Minister didn't give him up. Because the power went up. And an increase in electricity doesn't just mean that the citizen, who doesn't have to pay. It means an increase in product cost, which means a lack of competitiveness. It's just things. The businessman who produces a product that makes 1 euro with an increased current goes to 1,10 euros, to 1.15 euros. So you're killing the economy too. You're also killing the extroversion of our economy. I'll tell you what I've been saying for two years. Here comes Armageddon. Two years, please the Greek Prime Minister, I beg him and the other parties' leaders to talk about the food crisis that is coming. I've been warning for two years that it's been coming hungry, food crisis worldwide. The Greek Solution warns, shouting out to make a plan for a farm industry, to get into the food industry, which is the future with the water. How many times didn't we talk in here? And the Greek Solution and Mr. Villardos, and we're all constantly talking about this. Why don't you listen to us? See what's coming now? To do this, Minister - I told you - all parties a plan for the Greeks. Bank of seeds doesn't have Greece. Now, listen, I won't say the numbers. I will tell you what the United Nations has said: 'If action is not taken, there will be a global situation of food need and crisis'. Russia is investing in food independence. Exports of Russian grains in 2017 exceeded the US and Canada, because Putin designed ten years ago, this authoritarian, totalitarian. To agree on these. I don't have a problem. But his plan is specific. What is it? Wheat for Russia was named Russia's new oil. No matter how much oil you have, if you don't have bread to eat, you have a problem. That's what Putin said in a statement 11 years ago. And now Russia is getting to increase its exports of 50% every year to cereals. Do you understand what's coming? Let go of the rest, our differences in ideological patterns. Leave the rest. We're talking about hunger. The US Department of Agriculture estimates that 30% of agricultural land belongs to owners who do not grow themselves. Do you know who they are? He speaks for himself, ladies and gentlemen. The richest people in America have taken land, vast areas, to cultivate. It's the new business. If you heard the Greek Solution, Greece would be the steam engine against what's coming. Sadly, you've made us pigs and last in the wagon! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Jeff Bezos, Joe Malone, Thomas Peterfield. Gates had accumulated more than two hundred sixty thousand acres of rural land in eighteen states in less than a decade. Why? To play ball in two hundred and sixty thousand acres? He said: 'The food crisis is coming and we businessmen must be ready to win'. And it's good. Ellas with all these fields uncultivated? I see Veroia, Giannitsa, Thessaly, fields that you put on photovoltaics and wind turbines. Why are you doing this? There's a pandemic of hunger coming. I stress it and say it. We've been talking about it. The next pandemic is evolving. It will be the vertical increase in basic prices and goods. When did I say that? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Look at the Minutes. So today, your Minister came out on a channel and said that coffee would grow because Brazil was drought. Let me take it. It is an argument that I accept, Minister. Colleagues, Minister of State and myself in the past, I said that. I'll take it. It's a argument. So since coffee has increased because of Brazil, why is the current growing? Is it the drought in Brazil? The basic consumer goods produced by our country, why are they constantly growing? Is it Brazil's fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u67	The oil...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u68	Petroleum? Tell Mr. Dendia that Greece will never extract gas. With what right does Mr. Dendias say, 'I will not extract gas'? And we're not a little embarrassed? Are we serious? Here's the lignites to put on wind turbines! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] From food to PPC accounts, machinery, there is a huge reduction in real wages and pensions in an entirely unprepared Greece. It will only be cheap, ladies and gentlemen, dignity. You have cheapened political dignity. You've made criminal mistakes that the next governments will pay for. And you and you don't have the right! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] Fifty percent increase in electricity, 46% in heating oil, 82% in natural gas. In passing, gas pays 30% more expensive with an agreement made by the Greek State on New Democracy in the past than other European countries. Any success! I'm sorry, I'm not gonna make an anti-government crescendo, but I'm gonna be ringing bells today. There are difficult times coming for all of us, and you all have to understand it. There are difficult times coming for the nation, the country and the Greek. And I'm not talking about illegal immigrants now, about illegal immigrants. I'm talking about Greek food. Twenty percent the non-prescribed medicines, 10% to 20% the bread, 20% to 32% the fruits, vegetables, coffee, milk, cheese, meat, sugar. Where does the Greek get out? Why do you know what that means? Our economists made an addition and a subtraction. You don't need a lot of brains. If you get 700 euros a month, that's 490 euros automatically with food and basic consumer goods. Live gentlemen with 500 euros! Let's all live with 500 euros! Let's try it for a month. None of us will survive unless he goes to the bank to get the other 1,000 or the other 1,500. We tell you now: Our products are more expensive than any other country. I travel to both Germany and England and France. It is not just a matter of food increases. Oh, no! The point is that Greek products are more expensive in Greece than in Germany. How is that possible? Who is incapable of commanding this state? Who are incompetent ministers? You tell me. And that's not the case now, it's been for decades now. It's not something that happened today. It's not Mr. Vorides or Mr. Mitsotakis today alone. Long-term the deficit of timidation of the covetous wholesaler's hardship for decades! I'm afraid so. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I heard the Minister of the New Democracy at a TV station - probably a journalist from the New Democracy who makes the Minister, because the ministers of the New Democracy are going out to the panels as journalists and commenting - to say the unimportant: "The current has increased, yes. Let the citizen look for the private current that is cheaper'. This is a government proposal, when with these stories they have made in the past, the ridiculousness, does the private take the power cheaper than PPC produce it? Are we serious? Is that a state? And you're doing lobbying for me? It's laughing. The lobbying was bleeding. Marioris had it all, her zipper was missing! You ruined everything. Apiculture is destroyed. Listen now: I knew - I knew, of course, but I will tell you now - that the Germans are making cars, that they are first, doing jobs, doing scams. We still get from the 'dieselgate' compensation. New Democracy isn't asking. Where does he ask? Merkel's gonna pull her ear. Should we demand compensation, like other countries, for the 'dieselgate' of hundreds of millions of euros? No way! We did not ask for SIEMENS here. Now here's what's going on: Beekeeping. The European Commission comes out - on the basis of the Commission's information - and says that 15 000 beekeepers have been out of apiculture for the past two years, without Evia's crime, where apiculture has been destroyed. Do you know which country is first in beekeepers? Germany. First to beekeepers, Germany! Okay, the car, I get it, the ship doesn't get it, but I get it. And the beekeeping first Germany? Does the beekeeper of Greece know that Germany protects the beekeeper, encourages him while Greece and the governments buried him? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Does the Greek know about this? Look for them, look for them. Search for a little bit for the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u70	Yes, Mr. President. I won't tell you about the most expensive tolls. I'll tell you that from Berlin to Tarvazio is nine hundred and thirty-seven kilometers. 12 euro tolls and tunnels, please, to the Austrian Alps huge. Route of Tarvazio - Agona five hundred seventy thousand miles. Tolls - tiquet that you only get once -44 euros. Route of Kalamata - Larissa, five hundred eighty-one kilometers. A toll of 105 euros is taken by the pimps, the fewer ones. They are the ones you serve! And you're telling me about lobbying! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'll tell you what, because time is pressing and the President is pressing. He's doing it a lot. It's okay. What we learned in the first quarantine as Greeks: Do not release and ferment bread in our home. In the second quarantine we got used to staying at home and shopping online. We became Europeans. In the third quarantine you will teach the Greek to forget without heating, fire and food. Is that where Greece is going? No, we won't allow you! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Minister, Switzerland you know her. It's a small country, not as strong as Greece, it's not going very well! But there are seven Ministers - seven Ministers! - and Greece has fifty nine with the Undersecretaries! Some of the two countries, gentlemen of the New Democracy, are wrong. Switzerland definitely doesn't. Is that right? Let's talk about it. And by closing here, I'd like to say something simple to my Minister. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, Minister, do you know what the most valuable thing in the world is? It's not gold either, it's not diamonds, it's not oil either. No, it's people's trust in each other. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You've lost the world's trust. The Prime Minister has lost his confidence in his MPs and the citizens who voted for New Democracy. The Prime Minister of the country, the Members of the New Democracy, does not trust you. You're a hundred and fifty-eight, and not even a man capable of paying for the position of the Minister of Civil Protection? So, New Democracy, according to the Prime Minister, has a hundred and fifty-eight incompetent MPs? Over two thousand members have your record and you couldn't choose one of them? One, only one. And to tell you this, because the opposition is making a bad opposition. I'll tell you what, how's correct Opposition doing? What I'll tell you. You're talking about the Minister, Mr. Stylianides, the new one: why should I need a separate Ministry of Civil Protection? The right question is that of the Opposition. Why would a country need a special ministry? The other question that the opposition must ask is whether Mr Stylianides is capable. The third question is whether his positions have been correct in the past and not whether the Minister was Greece or whether he is Cyprus or something else, as if Cyprus were not Greece. For us Cyprus is Greece and will remain Greece despite what SYRIZA or the Change Movement or anyone else says. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] For SYRIZA - I am sure in passing - to say that every Pakistani can become Greek fast. Cyprus cannot be Greek. These are mistakes that we all see, mistakes that we are all stigmatizing. But who is Mr. Stylianides? He is the man who gave as a commissioner money to Turks, to Turkey and to the Occupied. He is the man who was the Commissioner in the European Union and was in favour of the Annan Plan. Awarded by ELIAMEP. He confessed that he took 50 thousand euros to put pressure on the Annan plan. I mean, if I give him now, 500 grand what he's gonna do? 50 grand took for the Annan plan. He is a praiser of climate change, rapporteur for the ESTIA programme, when he was a Commissioner. So this chosen, semantic, because he had also opened up an annex of Simitis in Cyprus, became Minister of the New Democracy. When Karamanlis II was talking about pimps, he was underneath the Sheite. Today you took them underneath and made them ministers. He is abusive to the order of the beggar of the New Democracy, Karamanlis of the 1st.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u71	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u72	Yes, Mr. President. And here I close by saying: Gentlemen of the New Democracy, I ask who governs the country, who governs the country? The Prime Minister and the New Democracy or the Simitis and his modernists? Does New Democracy rule or PASOK? I ask and answer through your own conscience. And you're committing national crimes, and I'm closing down here, Mr. President. Only Aristophanes could explain to a comedy what happens in the comedy of Maximos. Let me tell you differently. Why did you choose Stylianides? Let's put Tom Hanks on a Greek passport, but the man has proved his worth in the film "The Navy". So it's for the Minister of Civil Protection. Put Tom Hanks, who has Greek citizenship. I'm telling you, because it's a comedy thing. Let me tell you what you've achieved. Two things have been important for the middle Greek for the past twenty years: his home and his child study. You've taken him two decades now and his house and child to study. You got him everything he had and he didn't. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You got him dignity, you took his peace, you took his peace, you got what we say security. It came - I repeat - the Greek Solution to smack you and understand the crimes. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Minister, I have been telling you in the past that for us it is worth the Greek solution now to fight for the Greeks with the Greeks. It's important that you don't stop fighting and never win. We will fight for Greece and the Greeks forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'State the Agreement on the termination of the bilateral Investment Agreements between the Member States of the European Union'. Mr Scandalidis is called in Stepma as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Your Honor. I owe just one word about Panagiotis Cretan, who has honoured the Greek Parliament and its Bureau, an old democrat from his genocide, a man with an unreceived route, an anger politician, who in recent years had left Parliament, honoured me with his discussion on poetry. He also had moods to deal with, and he wrote nice poems. We lost him, too. You see the time when many people are lost who are useful to our homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u75	And not just poems.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u76	And not only poems, he has written books and political analyses and he has done and was one of the most progressive and conscious members of the national Parliament and of our party. Minister, you are a man who basically moves into reality and certainly you do not say a great deal about the bills you bring. In fact, many times, you admit that they are draftsmanships, they give some solutions to some issues. This bill, I think, is an epitome of what the opinion "deals with a term and poured it out." All three parts of the bill are far from the real needs. I'm not commenting on the second one. It is an arrangement that we agree on, but it is a very partial thing. The first thing about lobbying is that it is very far from European institutions and so it is an incomplete proposal. And thirdly, the regulations on mobility in administration are some, selective and fragmented. On this occasion I will repeat something that I am saying very often: I am looking for an act of any government which has the character of an integrated reform in the institutions, in the economy, in the social state and in the administration, even though all the bills it brings - I do not mean you - are in the form that it is a great reform that is being carried out at the place. With the Diogenes lantern, I'm looking for it because that requires great changes and your reformist ostrich is verbal. It's a flag that in words flaps high, but which is constantly subsidized. And I explain as far as the two main points of the bill are concerned. Firstly, with regard to lobbying. First of all, here he attempted and attempted an ideological debate on utility or not, what is the case with capitalism. All this is well known. The positions of parties from a position of principle are known, from how we study the world and what they believe about the future of mankind. But here there are two specific political systems which exist in today's society - in the future I do not know - one is the democratic and parliamentary regimes and the other is the authoritarian and totalitarian regimes. Democratic and parliamentary regimes attempt through the continuous dialogue and the possibility of developing democracy, even though it is constantly and systematically violated by the forces of power, of all kinds of power. But they're taking steps forward. I believe that at the present time when big businesses play a catalytic role in the course of globalisation and, more generally, in every country, it is clear that a debate that will be done in a transparent way, regardless of whether you solve the problem completely, because the informal process will not cease unless the government has to study them and legislate them, it is clear that this debate is to move forward. Since there is a development in Europe and in America around these things, we could also bring in a more comprehensive proposal here. I believe, Minister, that this draft law is a pretext for this, as it is a bill governed by many 'yes, but' because, in the name of the citizens, it sets out transparency and an attempt to get a class in an area that so far does not have a specific framework and rules, as the issue of lobbying in Greece operates with unwritten rules of competition and the market, but that is, in fact, without the citizens, because there is provision for citizens to be access to the register of representatives of interests created, but this register will be incomplete, as it does not include important players and substantial pressure groups. Thus, in the pretext of creating a legislative framework that covers part of the problem and leaves out those who actually play. A broader definition of lobbyists is necessary, and this is also the conclusion from the hearing of the bodies who have all pointed out that this is a very narrow regulation outside Greek reality. I repeat that there are European events and the good practice of the European Union on political integrity and easily a proposal adapted to them would give a more substantial and decisive character to a change that begins with good intention, but remains on the road from petrol. I now go to one of the issues that is also a long-standing pain to me. You are again making an effort to'remedies' in public administration. Missing from you the integrated plan for the functioning of public administration and self-government, there is an elementary mapping that we do not have, we do not know it, a situationualisation, there are lacking proposals for new administration in the new era of digitisation on the basis of this printing and the change to be made to the state, because we all swear that what is needed today is a great democratic change in the state. I have an opinion from the past and I will repeat it, Minister, because I think it is confronted with what you are trying today. What does a change in the state mean first? In the context of the digitisation and functioning of the modern state, there must be a rational reallocation of existing staff on the basis of the new needs of the modern state, what is being strengthened, for example, in the National Health System and how many more people will go in the next two years to do so in the context of the three-year recruitment planning, what is being done with regard to civil protection and the strengthening of self-government in administrative mechanisms, not just in instruments, so that it can respond. It is therefore necessary for the existing potential to have a reallocation. I do not claim that you will suddenly hire so many people into the administration to fill out all the gaps that exist, but I say that there is an absurdity even after the changes that have taken place. The functioning of the administration requires a redistribution. First, then, the redistribution on the basis of the modern state. This must be an effective state, as you say, which means decentralisation of powers and administrative mechanisms. How is it assessed within the public administration in order to make this distribution? A PSC needs to be set up in the functioning of its internal administration for evaluation. All you bring for evaluations, etc., are small things that have no meaning and are mainly directed to the central state. After that, we should not be afraid, we should also be forced to make transfers based on the potential we have. This would be a great change so that you could then say as a government that "I have a three-year planning and it needs the Greek state in all its structure so many people in this process and with these resources available to the state budget". This would be an act of real change in public administration. What are you doing? I want to say something here and as an element of our self-criticism, even though we have made all the changes in the state. The achilles heel in public administration is the uninterrupted state. It's awesome. I voted for the efficiency indicators in public administration and in 2008 again voted another government - I do not care what - the same law precisely because it had not been implemented the previous time and had the managers rebuild the law from the start. It is terrible for the Minister of the same government to change and to do things like that. Not to go to the different parties where it's chaos and everything's made all over again. Is that the modern state we want? It's not going anywhere. It does not respond to any need. It'll be costly, numerous, bureaucratic, everything. You now, unfortunately - I do not know what you are going to do tomorrow - continue on the same path, petty divisions, party interventions and easy solution everywhere. He'll meet the needs, the postman. You are turning aside public administration, you are despising its structures and institutions, after you are doing your microdispositions. Act without a plan, without an elementary account, without any evidence in public view. Some derogations with mobility have a one-way drive from the bottom up. From the most peripheral upwards, travels and various changes go upwards. Why? Why should the abolition, mobility only have a one-way attitude? So the municipality has a need, he has an employee, and there's a decision coming from the above state, and he gets the employee. That's in the name of the client state, obviously. This does not give any dimension to rationalisation and modernisation, not reform, but fundamental rationalisation in public administration, without evaluation, without decision of the institutions, by bypassing procedures, with signatures, with 'bypass', with all that is being done. Minister, how perfect is this state that at the top has a multitude of poster army and central administration gathers public officials with opaque criteria, with purely customer and old-fashioned criteria? It's a definite state. That is why when the critical moment of the crisis arrives, the state becomes a leaf and a feather, as was the case in the last crises. Sheet and feather. The state's uncontinuation is therefore constantly reproduced with the uninterrupted continuity of the customer and party state. This is the Greek reality. Minister, do you want to stay in history? Talk with us and with all institutions a great change. Do you have the guts to do it? Revolt your party. I don't care what your ideological position is. We've had big controversies in the past. Revolt your party. If you can make this change, you'll leave something behind, or you're not going anywhere. It is a government that sees the trains of our time constantly passing through it. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u77	After all on behalf of all, I endorse what Mr Scandalidis said about the Anointed Panagiotis Cretan, looking inside the Chamber, I think I am the only one who lived with him in this Parliament several years ago. Because I was informed that no basic price was attributed to his memory, I invite you to keep a minute silence in the memory of the Panagiotis Cretan. [[This is a minute's silence.]] His memory is eternity. Thank you very much. Before we started the list of speakers, the Minister asked for five minutes to intervene. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have asked to intervene because I have found Mr Scandalides' position extremely interesting and I would like to say this. First of all, I would like to make an introductory remark, perhaps a question. This Rule of the Rules of Procedure which says that speakers must speak on this subject - what I say is not about Mr Scandalides - concerns previous speeches - it continues to exist or has been repealed? Because it seems that the bill is not working now and there are no discussions about the bill. I have heard speeches on every subject, on the subject of reform, on the issues of accuracy or accuracy, concerning energy costs, on agricultural production, but on the subject of the bill I have not heard. I would therefore assume that this article has been repealed in the Rules of Procedure. And I will just say here that this makes it difficult for us to have a debate, because, unreservedly by the competent ministers, the Minister is called upon if he is to participate in the debate, to play the role of the Government representative. It's not exactly my job! So I would ask you to concentrate on this. I say that I find Mr Scandalides' intervention interesting, but I must say that here I think you are unfair to the effort made by the government. And I'll explain why. You said - and when I hear it in your mouth, it is of particular importance, when I hear it elsewhere, that I do not attach great importance - for micro-directions. Can you tell me one I've done? I don't want two, I want one. You said that, with our intervention in this matter, we are making derogations. Can you give me a derogation I have recommended? Because - listen! - in this Chamber it begins and there is this paradox, which I should like to say. Since 2016, more than two hundred and fifty derogations have been introduced from the mobility system, most of them on SYRIZA, I am the first Minister and is the first government to abolish derogations and we are the ones! That is why I say that your criticism is unfair. I have heard the following: 'Yes, but you are not all abolishing them.' Answer: It is not possible - and you understand that - to abolish all. If, however, one knows any specific ones that should be abolished by the ones we maintain, he should tell me. Because I have examined them one - one, I say that the ones that are maintained have a certain logic that is maintained - covers a need. I have also heard the following: 'It is not your reform plan as a whole, you are taking fragmentary action'. I can hear that for lobbying too. Listen: I have heard from someone before that for eighteen years there has been legislation in the United States. There is no law in the United States for eighteen years. The last legislation on lobbying is eighteen years old. Legislation in the United States has been in place for eighty, ninety years. Recent, more recent legislation exists in other countries. But listen! I listen to this as a criticism I recommend today lobbying by political forces who have not recommended it for years! In other words, we regulate it and the criticism is: 'but you do not regulate it well'. Hey, nice thing you guys used to be in governments these years, why didn't you take care of it better? We'll see if he's okay or not. I say she's fine, but we'll see then. This can be said by someone who had proposed better regulation and not by the one who had the slightest regulation! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr. President, do I have some more time? May I continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u79	Go on, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much. I'm on my way to third. You say, Mr Scandalides: 'The interventions are fragmented'. Can we agree on something? We do not legislate in a vacuum, nor do we legislate in a state-based asymmetric country. Greece is a European country, it has institutions, it has functions and the whole system has this, as in many European countries, its problems. But when, in the last six months, we have legislated the pan-Hellenic competition for the ASA and the reconstruction and reorganisation of the entire institutional framework of the AACC leading to digital AACC, have we legislated on teleworking, have we legislated a coherent internal control framework, have we legislated the change of electoral law to self-government, are we today legislating lobbying, at the same time changing the mechanism and the way in which the introductory tests are carried out at the Public Administration School, in a semester is fragmentary? Is it a bit? Is that limited? Is that a poor thing? And allow me this: I understand and agree with you that there is a huge debate to be held. But here I would like to say that there has also been a central government option that says that the issue of digitalisation today lies with the Ministry of Digital Governance. You should see these as complementary actions to change the state. Have few procedures been digitised in the Ministry of Digital Governance at this time? And I come now and close by saying this: I do have a great debate. With regard to what is termed'multi-level governance' - and it is a matter of what each one understands - I understand that this is a mechanism for assessing the responsibilities and functions of the public administration. This is a big and central debate about what the state does, what the state must do and which of the state's all players must do. This will obviously raise issues and redistribution of the staff you have put in. This is a task that will evolve at various levels with various interventions, there will be more immediate interventions concerning the allocation of powers, but there will also be building up a central mechanism that is missing over the years to make this central evaluation. Well, now after that, I do insist that you are wrongful of the effort made by the government in the matter of public administration reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u81	Mr. President, would you excuse me for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u82	Yes, Mr. Scandalidis, but not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u83	Don't worry, I don't abuse your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u84	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u85	Minister, digitization. It is combined, but it is 'another Gospel', I mean at government level, which does not prevent the debate, of course, and what has to be done with it. Secondly, you spoke about your legislative interventions. All were a few and none had any element of significant reform. None of us, in our view! We have supported it and the act proves, as in universities, but also in others, that things are not going, that they are not going, that they are not going! Thirdly, I accept that microdirections have become many of your government, I would say thousands, in education, in health, in work, everywhere. And now you're closing the chapter and saying 'Let's go get some, not all of them where they are', which, in my opinion, is fragmentary. We are lacking here a portrayal of public administration today, which for you is very easy to do. There's evidence. Bring them to us to see who they are. Show us where the public administration is today and tell you what needs to be done in our view. But I do believe that this is not about you personally. It's a permanent government practice so that from the back door she does what she thinks of herself. This is my controversy and I think it is totally in contradiction with what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u86	We will go with the principal speakers, who are Mr. Tsavdaridis, Mr. Kalamatianos, Mr. Kamines, Mr. Bubbas. Two parties haven't given so it's the four you've heard. Mr Voridis, until I give the floor to Mr Tsavdaridis, I would like to say that if the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure was applied - and I tell you that because I am thirty years in here - then, starting from the President of Parliament, we should go to ministers who are often asked by the Member at the time of the check and other answers by the Minister and joining colleagues, half the speakers should have taken the floor away from the Bureau. You're right, but that's what happens. I wish it were! Here, Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, until the Greek Solution is agreed with SYRIZA and the other opposition parties, what is the right opposition and what is not to be Cuba or not, this government will continue to work and bring bills that improve the lives of Greek citizens every day. Today we are discussing in plenary such a draft law reflecting the determination of the Government of New Democracy to shield and further strengthen the framework of transparency in the country and to update rules that will facilitate the operation of the Greek public. It is a piece of legislation that at times calls on us to correct mistakes and omissions of the past and to renew the relationship between public confidence and the state. This draft law consists of a threefold section. The first is the establishment of a legislative framework which regulates the communication of state institutions with representatives of interests, with a view to ensuring the integrity and accountability of the activities of the known lobbying. The second is to promote the creation of a system of registration, publicity, safeguarding, management and utilization of gifts offered to the President of the Republic and to the members of the Government, in accordance with international and European practices, while the third section of the bill goes on to abolish the provisions which introduce derogations from the single mobility system, so that this can be applied as uniform and uniformly as possible. What is the reason, but also the practical value of these reform initiatives? With regard to lobbying, it is undeniable that any extra-institutional pressure activity in the state's organs should be maintained in a rational way and use its good side, deploring the well-established belief that lobbying is by nature guilty, full of underground and opaque routes. Here, because the clear definition and definition of this activity, the establishment of a National Transparency Register in which those representing interest groups wishing to exercise legitimate influence on government officials, but also the application of sanctions if the terms and conditions are not met, are significant improvements that should be welcomed by everyone. Absolutely linked to the transparent lobbying framework is also the issue of gift policy towards state officials. And it is precisely the context of this customary inferiority that this legislation delineates them so that there is no possibility of anyone willingly or unwillingly fall into the crime of bribery, so that Caesar, Caesar's wife, but also all the senators not only be honest, but also appear ready. Thus, government officials or the President of the Republic will no longer be able to accept personal gifts of a value greater than EUR 200 in the performance of their duties, while presents above this value will be owned by the public, which will publish a renewed list of them every year and decide on their management. Finally, this draft law comes to resolve the legislative album caused by hundreds of derogations in the system of mobility of civil servants. What is happening at the moment? Officials who were seconded by taking advantage of SYRIZA's derogations and mobility, while in a certain position, also take their place from the institution that left. They will now be invited to choose, within a reasonable period of time, either whether to transfer them to the agency in which they are posted or to return to their organic position, thereby at last building up the chaos that agitates public administration and self-government, with regard to staffing issues. In the face of these fundamental changes, the Opposition - and especially the Axis - is once again awkward, if not wars, inventing from nowhere grounds of confrontation to turn the debate, as is customary, far from the substance. We were told by the SYRIZA rapporteur that the bill that is coming to regulate the gap that is compulsory in the legislative framework to guarantee the lobbying in Greece is supposedly of generality and vagueness. But, well, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, don't you realize you're being exposed to this criticism? Are you looking at us at the time you admit any loopholes to such an important issue? Why didn't you cover up these days? I know. And you didn't have time to cover it! He also accused us of being a SYRIZA and a fascist of transparency, as well as of the fact that the bill is an in-white mandate to us and to the President of the Transparency Authority to make photographic provisions and customer relations. And who's blaming us for opacity? SYRIZA, whose day, in 2018, the transparency index in Greece collapsed in its sixty-seventh place since the fifty-eighth that was in 2015. SYRIZA, who is the only party that has deleted its debts to the banks, with everything that means to his credibility. SYRIZA, who, with the uncontrolled mobility system he introduced into other public services, managed not to have workers chairs to sit while others did not find the official to be able to serve. SYRIZA, who from 2016 to 2019 has introduced a hundred and fifty-three exceptions - derogations from the application of the Mobility Act that he voted for. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government consistently and seriously improves every day, with small and larger interventions, the lives of the citizens. On this path any zero opposition with a micro-participatory mark will necessarily be allowed to stand on the margins of society itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u88	Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos has the floor now. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I begin with the amendment providing for suspension of time limits and benefits specifically for enterprises in the two municipalities of Northern Evia. Indeed, these two municipalities have been overwhelmed and businesses there face great problems. But I also convey the anxiety and concern of the operations of Elijah and other firefighting areas. Everyone is asking why these discriminations are being made. They ask why there are two standards. Especially Elias is a place, a county that burns for the second time - I've said it several times from this Step here - in fourteen years. And yet we see that horizontal measures, beneficial measures for the operations and firefighting of Elias do not apply. In 2007, we heard many promises, many words about reconstruction and rehabilitation. All that stayed in words. The county was condemned to underdevelopment and regression and now we see promises remain. The Prime Minister said Elias would join a reconstruction plan, and we are still waiting for it. It's been a month. Nothing has happened. Looks like everything's gonna stay in the talk again. I'm coming to the remodeling now. We see that after two weeks the Prime Minister actually managed to find a person to place himself in Civil Protection. And, of course, it seems that he did not find any of you, ladies and gentlemen, who could respond to this. But let's think, this racing attempt to find someone out of your line may not mean that the tank of worthy executives has dried up on your line, but maybe it wants to throw the blame for new failures in civil protection to someone outside of you. However, it is certainly making this effort for reasons of communication, and it is negative to use such an important, such a crucial field as that of civil protection for such exploitation. I would also like to ask you there at the Ministerial Council that you will be with Mr Stylianides if you will be talking about matters of the past, such as the Annan Plan and the Prespecies Agreement that Mr Stylianides was a strong supporter. I do not know whether you will disagree on these issues of the past or on issues of modern European policy. I don't know if you've changed your mind about all this. You'll find it. Now we're going to the crucial issue of the pandemic. And it is not irrelevant to the bill because, as I will say below, your policy actually serves interests. If one makes a comparison of the situation we were with this year's, he can understand the size of the failure. I'll report some indicative numbers. On 30 August 2020: a hundred fifty-seven cases. On August 30, 2021: two thousand three hundred and forty-three cases. Five melted last year, three hundred and thirty-eight this year. Two deaths last year, nineteen this year, and within September, unfortunately, our fellow people who leave are far more daily. Ten thousand thirty - four cases last year, five hundred eighty - three thousand six hundred fifty - eight this year. Two hundred sixty - two deaths last year, thirteen thousand sixty - sixteen this year. So while the pandemic is at such an outbreak with many cases, intact and sadly dead, while you have done nothing to substantially strengthen the public health system with doctors and nurses, permanent staff, while you have failed vaccination - a large part of the population is out of vaccination - while our public health system, hospitals and workers have exceeded their limits - we hear the screams of anxiety among doctors and nurses who say that they are unable to withstand exhaustive hours, they are resigned by intensive treatment units precisely because of this sub-straint - so at this difficult time the government chooses to show authoritarianism, punishment and above all chooses to divide. He does this because he tries to throw the blame on others once again. Instead of seeking to convince about the need for Catholic, voluntary vaccination, it chooses coercion and penalisation. And that's how he puts him across the sanitary and kicks out the workers from the hospitals. And I ask, is it better now that thousands of hospital workers are away from hospitals while no one is left over and we need more? Is it in the interests of patients to miss doctors and nurses and to suspend surgery and treatments that should be done to save lives? Is it in the interest - to say the example of my country - of the patients, of the people of Elijah that for the first time after seventy years, does the Cresteens Hospital actually close down, that the Amalada Hospital operates as a health center and that the Tower Hospital is acting because of the subsecution? There's no doctors in the pandemic, but twenty are gone. All this before the suspension is applied, think now about what happens. So, think where you have become the public health system as a whole, which has stood up by the superhuman and titanic efforts of health workers. Now you're splitting up and showing them with your finger. But it is obvious that you want private individuals to cover services and jobs. It is obvious that you are creating gaps in the National Health System with your policy and you come to cover them with private individuals. But all this has tragic consequences for the health and life of our fellow humans. Now let's go to the bill. Minister, do you really want to regulate the lobbying, or do you get to legislate and say that you've supposedly set it up? If you really want to legislate to regulate unfair and opaque interference in legislating and exercising power, why leave ambiguities and gaps in definitions and fields? Why do you leave such a wide range of regulation with ministerial decisions? Why, for example, do you not adopt the definition of other states such as Canada, Ireland, recently Germany or international organisations, the Council of Europe, the OECD and the European Union? Why do you allow ambiguity and not the definition to be sufficiently comprehensive and inclusive? Why do you leave the scope of the legal companies involved in the exercise of influence to be regulated? Why do you let them avoid writing into the register, justifying the confidentiality between a lawyer and a client? Why do you recognize as activities of influence only those that take place on a fee basis? So, you don't know any more than professional consultancy companies and lobbyists that have influence over them? Do you not know, for example, non-governmental organisations or institutions such as BSE, which have such influence? But you don't regulate this, you leave it out. Why? You are, of course, anticipating penalties for those who are in violation. Yes, sir. Code of conduct and expressly formulated obligations of lobbyists are provided for in the bill? Oh, no. So tell us how the penalties will be imposed without a code of conduct and without any specific obligations on persons? Do you really want transparency, integrity and accountability in the lobbying exercise to ensure the democratic, ultimately, functioning of our place? If so, why do you leave the field limited, incomplete and incomplete? You know, so far your government's things have left us no room for optimism. You have brought the minimum import basis, you have left thousands of children, students outside public universities to give them as a customer to private colleges, you legislate on provisions that reduce labour rights, you destroy the eighth, you anticipate unpaid and cheap overtime, you degrade the operation of collective labour contracts, which means lower wages for workers in the private sector. What about all this? To serve specific business interests. You voted for the new bankruptcy law and you get the property of the borrowers, even the first residence, to serve the lenders and especially the banks. You have voted to privatise subsidiary insurance to give the money of the insured to private investment companies, which will actually use it to place them on stock exchanges and financial markets. And how will this hole be covered, this loss of budget? Of the taxpayers themselves, the insured and the retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u90	Look at the watch, you have to close up, Mr. Kalamatanne.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I shall end. You are obviously not interested and you are not ruling for the interests of the large social majority. The citizens, however, despite the refractiveness of many media, have understood what you are doing and the small and medium-sized professionals, farmers, pensioners and, above all, our young people will give the answer to this your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u92	Mr. George Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I honestly wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if there is an object in today's bill at least as far as what is supposed to be its main object, namely to exercise influence. It is only enough to invoke the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which is always very careful, but because I once happened to serve in it, I can understand, when it uses a mild language, in fact what it means. What he tells us is that the concept used in this law to exercise influence by it, for example, that adopt other texts such as the formation of the Council of Europe, and therefore, the draft law does not introduce any rules governing the cases in which representatives of interest are either invited by institutional bodies in connection with decision-making or those in which representatives of social or professional groups do not act on a fee or on an employment relationship or have been hired an order with their clients. This is the case, which is, in fact, the case in a way which is in fact the case in a non-confessional manner, and is in fact not regulated and no provision is actually made for natural persons or legal persons who effectively pursue that profession in that register. The fact is that this institution has been regulated for many decades in the United States of America. The Americans are practical people, so just where in public life there is a close contact between the private and the public prefer to be honest and prefer to make arrangements. One is the question of lobbying, namely how, as far as possible, we can lay down certain rules on the basis of which the influence exerted by the private sector, the private economy in particular in the public sector, and also in the financing of the parties, is transparent and visible. And there they are sincere because they know that individuals will fund political parties. They therefore prefer to lay down rules, rather than acting hypocritically, as we and many other European countries operate. It has just opened an interesting debate between our Parliamentary Representative, Mr Scandalidis, and the Minister of State, a debate on the very crucial issue of state reform. I, from what I have understood from the public positions I have served, are that there are two key pillars that we need to reform to see a change in the relations between the state and the citizen, and more generally in the functioning of the state. It is first of all decentralisation, the regulation of responsibilities between the state and local government, this clearing. There can be no final state without a strong local government. This issue has not yet been touched by the government, and I fear that it will not touch it. Why? Because that's exactly where he wants big ruptures and big divisions. It is limited to regulating the short-eyed, narrowly united party interest by changing the electoral system. In this respect you do absolutely nothing different from what SYRIZA did. The crucial issue is what you call the 'final state', Minister, with the unprecedented post-cultural data government of sixty people. We have here as well as a man who has served in the Armed Forces and knows what it may mean to be a staffer. Ultimately, a State with a sixty-person ministries is not meant. How to do it! It is a state with clay legs, since it does not have a strong public administration underneath. Is it enough for digital governance? I don't underestimate her. Digital governance is very important, not only because it makes people's lives easier in their daily transactions with the public, but because if the public is properly applied it also makes the public more transparent and also gives the opportunity to see the central state, the Ministry responsible for the reforms, where the nodes and delays in transactions are created. You see that when you're digitized and when the transactions are electronic. This is the very critical. And I come to the second, the evaluation. Before each evaluation, there must, of course, be a description of posts and duties for officials and services and a targeting again per employee and service. And, of course, from the recent sample - I was expecting it, to see what will happen - from the evaluation of teachers, we have finally reached a complete disappointment. Twenty-eight pages and eighteen articles, if I am not mistaken, for the evaluation and eventually end up in the head office article on the evaluation which tells us that the evaluation is taking into account the development of the civil servant. 'It is taken into account', among many other criteria. This is not an assessment. This is a fugitive and presupposes that just as with the state you are finally coming and presenting reality with your head down and your feet up, so you will continue with the other issues relating to reform in public administration. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are discussing the relationship of confidence between citizens and states, which has been disturbed. Our President has mentioned and has given enough evidence. In conclusion, this is today that we need to improve the legal framework. However, whatever laws we can bring is like doping and anti-doping, i.e. whatever controls you do about corruption, this will always be a step ahead of control. That's what we're going to do. But this relationship between the state and the citizen has been disturbed. If you see out there, people say that everything that's not done with money is done with more money. Everything is rusted in the altar of politics. We've talked many times about doctrine Kisinger. Kissinger once said corrupt politicians were defamation for the rest of the 10%. So many are left by those who are not corrupt. But here, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you must legislate on the substance of a fragmented legal framework - the Minister is also legal and knows it - on the basis of the European Union report a few months ago - about the sins and all the weaknesses of the Greek rule of law. Some attempts have been made, but governments in power have no good earlier life. Once the founder of PASOK, Andreas Papandreou, had said of a large executive of PPC: We said to get a gift for himself, but not even 500,000! It's a few words they've been through in history. And, of course, are the six pimps and the five guilds that he had then spoken about, at Bairakaris, former Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis. This goes on. I read some statements from you, Minister, where you say that you took Greece's position in corruption from the SYRIZA government from the 60th position - if I remember well - and you took it to the fiftyth place. In Europe, however, what position is Greece? It is in the second place of the most corrupt states after Bulgaria. What's the ten? They keep the Balkans well. It is Hungary, Romania, Malta, Croatia, Slovakia, Italy. So Greece is in second place. Spain's inside, too. But what did we do to improve this picture? There is Article 325 of the European Union, which speaks of fraud and corruption. There is the European Public Prosecutor, there is Article 83 that characterises corruption as a criminal offence, debatable and reports have been made many times to the Greek governments as well to protect the European Union budget. Based on what you are legislating today, with the record, with a plaque on some gifts, it is skinny, it is not on the substance. Because a few months ago the Commissioner responsible for justice, Dedier Raiders, at a teleconference in February 2021, talks about the weaknesses of the Greek rule of law and about the institutional counterweights. There, Minister, since you are also a lawman, he talks about the lengthy process of judiciary awarding justice, Raiders, who is the Commissioner responsible for the rule of law. There we had to go into deep areas to pay back justice on time, with quality and not to have that legal framework that is fragmented. Because that is what Dedier Raiders tells us, that some efforts have been made, but these should continue to fight corruption, focusing on the issue of the administration of justice, 'the law not much more what or the Cretan bell', that is. It is what I have said a few times and what the Greek Solution tells you about the administration of justice, because the sword of justice really must not have a case. That's what Raiders says and he's talking about the media, which, instead of the media, could be called "SMEs=Don't you talk!". Because, like the smaller parties and the Greek Solution on most sites, its statements are neither hosted nor its ideological thinking. It's blocked. So, there, Raiders talks about the involvement of the ownership status of the people who manage the media in Greece. There is no such legal framework. This is what Europe's report in Greece says, which is the second most corrupt state after Bulgaria. I have to tell you that Bulgaria last year sent politicians to prison, fined over 600,000 liva, because of the two hundred and seventy-four cases that the Bulgarian state controlled the seventy-four were outlawed. What the world says 'will anyone go to jail?' However, it is a form of speech against corruption and fraud. Aren't past sins the lobbys created in health, with the consumables, the ones that cost nine times more, the same consumables as they were in Cyprus? Isn't that a lobby? It's different, though, to negotiate with a social group of people and it's quite a different thing to negotiate with an oligarch. It is another thing to talk to a farmer's cooperative to improve the primary sector and eliminate new weaknesses and sins, increase in product prices, raw materials and otherwise talk to a particular industry. So people want this dialogue with open doors. And you know you have to fight the political life of Greece, the old and the world, because today a politician, making a campaign to become known for election, gets sponsorships and donations either over or under the table. In short, someone is bribing him to support his campaign, to show up in the media. These checks, however, are retrospectively redeemed. Therefore, large economic cycles in particular control the political life of the place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Greece, however, things are even worse and need improvement. How did we get here? The biggest scandal, the "Operazione Mani Pulite" in Italy, sent over five thousand people of public prestige to prison for bribery. So, here we must build the relationship between the trust of a citizen and a state, which has not just been disturbed, but has been tarnished with the register, with the gifts and with some skin legislations that do not put the knife deep into the bone in order to change the quality and the administration of justice. Because the Minister of Justice, Mr. Tsipras, was present when Dedier Raiders spoke a few months ago about the rule of law in Greece. So, what are we doing there to improve it? Do we have a strong quality award of justice? Ask out the periphery, by court decisions that time is running, they are being closed, they are being blocked, they are being blocked, small businesses in despair, which are not able to compete. For example, I only complete it and complete it: Ministry of Culture, the Intellectual Property Agency, which had to carry out control over all organizations of related rights. Only one family managed EUR 60 million without giving an annual report or balance sheet, took its seat and took it to Nicosia. Because there is a lobby that, unfortunately, controls the state officials. That's what people are asking, to get out of here quick.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u96	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u97	And I close with what Pythia once said to Philip II, the father of Alexander the Great: “With silver spears and all you have held.” If you bribe with silver spears, then you win all the battles. It's not like that, though. For there must be moral and virtuous political life if we want to improve the future of his political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u98	We're entering the second circle of speakers. Mr. Athanasios Lippi will be speaking from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u99	And then, Mr President, as a parliamentarian, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u100	You will then do the following. Since they are used not to be two of the same party, Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis will also speak, and then you will.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I too would like to support an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u102	You wait till we're done here. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law which introduces new terms and procedures, which are missing from our political life, an attempt to acquire an organised form of what is called 'lobby', namely the groups of influence on the political life of the country. In Greece this concept has an almost exclusively negative dimension and is often linked to phenomena of interoperable, corruption and customer relations. The exact opposite is being attempted today. It creates the Ministry of Interior for the first time the institutional framework necessary for the existence, in accordance with rules and transparency, of communication between the spheres of economic interest and the executive. The aim is to combat corruption and strengthen legality, a practice that is perfectly legitimate, which applies to the countries of the European Union. Neither the Civic Opposition has denied the need for a new regulatory framework in this area at last. The new arrangements include the communication of a representative of interests on a fee with institutional bodies, seeking to participate in decision-making. Specific conditions shall be laid down under which a natural or legal person may act as a representative of interest. Institutions shall not engage in such activities during their term of office or even eighteen months after they leave office. The new Transparency Register recommended operates electronically through gov.gr, under the guarantee of the National Transparency Authority. All lobbyists must be recorded in the Transparency Register and at the same time designate both the client they represent and the purpose of that activity. They may not, in their activities, provide the institutions with any consideration, sponsorship or donation. A very important obligation for lobbyists is to submit every year an electronic statement to the National Transparency Authority for any decision they have taken, the elements of their client and the institution with which they have been contacted. Where the obligations described in the law are not complied with, serious penalties such as fines from EUR 5 000 to EUR 40,000 are provided for, suspending the possibility of exercising influence over at least two years, even temporary or definitively deletion from the Transparency Register. Part three regulates the issue of public mobility, which is necessary in a clear way. An extremely large number of forty-eight exceptions and derogations have been introduced so far in relation to the rules on mobility, which has created a disturbance in public administration. Some of these derogations have proved necessary, for example when a new service must be provided quickly. But today's number of exceptions is inconsistent and confusing. With today's provisions, a hundred derogations from the Single Mobility System are being abolished to create a clear landscape in relation to the needs and shortcomings of each public body. Employees seconded to choose within 10 days whether to return to their initial post or to the institution they serve will be given flexibility. This is how the public administration works more effectively. Finally, I will make a reference to the amendment of the Ministry of Health, Minister. It is a fact and we must not forget that to date the vast majority of doctors, nurses, nurses and administrative staff have completed vaccination. It is an act of responsibility to the sick and to the protection of the public health system. Obligation on vaccination came as a last resort, so that no patient could risk the new pandemic wave. The suspension of work in the event of non-vaccination was not punishable. On the contrary, the only pursuit was from the outset to be persuaded and not to be blackmailed. Thus, today's regulation returns to the job of those vaccinated with the first dose, provided that they complete the vaccination. Already in the beginning of the month many sanitaries have made the first dose of their vaccine. There is no reason for these workers to be excluded from work, given that those who had made the first dose by 31 August continued to work properly. Once again, we must convince all health workers of the necessity and safety of vaccines. The contradictory and emphatic reason, even within Parliament, does not help in this direction and create confusion. To sum up, it is well known that our country's low ranking is in terms of transparency, which has deteriorated in the previous government and reached the sixty-nineth place in the anti-corruption index. However, the position has improved with the current government and is in position ‘59’ in 2020. It is therefore important for any initiative, any action that sets rules and makes it more difficult to create an environment that is interoperable. The interconnection of economic influences with the political world is an undeniable reality. Furthermore, the executive power serves the interests and needs of the Greek society and must therefore be aware of what these needs are and what changes the economic life of the country needs to recover and help. It is neither absurd nor dangerous. It is dangerous to maintain a culture of informal contacts and influences, which are not known, not recorded and cannot be controlled. For the Prime Minister and the Government, it is unrealistic to seek a better, more transparent functioning of the public administration in order to lead us to a more effective operation of the state for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Lippe. I will give the floor for three to five minutes to Mr Ploiros to present the amendment. Mr Mamulakis will then have Mr Brutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendment. Previously, I would like to give you an update because the incident with Palama Karditsa has been reported too much. Indeed, the SAD has been completed there and it appears on the basis of the SAD that an official has participated in the existence of virtual vaccinations. Indeed, the sanctions which exist and before the completion of the ETUC have already been provided for have been suspended by the Secretary-General. In fact, I would like to thank Maki Voridis for discussing this issue. It is not the case as they are presented - I would like to reassure the National Representation - because it has been heard of forty thousand vaccinations. It is thirty-one thousand vaccinations, over the population, but very reasonable, because this centre had a PFIZER vaccine, which the citizens were looking for and it seems that there is no problem. But what's the problem? Unfortunately, there are also sanitaries in these cases. And there are cases from other OSHs - and I have informed the commander of the 3rd OSH to do the SES and, at the same time, to suspend their duties - which some sanitary workers used in order to look vaccinated in order not to be suspended. This has to do with the amendment. The government and the ministry are clear. The suspension measure will be applied. Health workers who do not want to be vaccinated, and their desire is respected, because they are dangerous to public health, will not be able to be in the system until they are vaccinated. What are we going to do with this amendment? As a sign of goodwill by the government and precisely because we respect these people and the struggle they have done in the system, we give them the opportunity as soon as they are vaccinated today to return to the system. And we note that some health workers are actually vaccinated in the days of September and they will return to work. We will not, however, tolerate any derogations at all. That is why, as we said in Article 2 of the amendment, we are tightening up the framework and, while there are criminal and disciplinary penalties for officials who do so, we consider it appropriate to introduce an administrative fine for two reasons. The administrative fine is first of all for the person who goes to ask to receive the certificate or, secondly, for something else we are facing, falsely stated that he has been ill. Because they know that we are also controlling this now and those who have declared false disease and have suspected an incident will be examined whether their statement is true. So there is an administrative fine of 5,000 euros. And for the employee or anyone involved in the procedure there is an administrative fine of EUR 5,000 for each operation. So if this law were to apply before and the employee had been found, it would be an accounting for about forty incidents of 5,000 euros the incident. The clarity is clear. We do not accept anyone going to power the programme and there are people who have not been vaccinated with patients or people who are vaccinated and want to be protected. At the same time, we also regulate the sanctions which were not in the previous context. There were suspension sanctions, sanctions for private clinics and employers were in place. At the same time, we also have the sanctions for freelance professionals and self-employed persons, where the contract with the EEAS will be suspended, and they will not be able to prescribe to the HICP. So we have an overall framework in the prevention part too. From this is where the Stepma tells people who have used that they have to go now to say it. It is a matter of time before us to find them, because there is technical capacity, and there are sanctions. We regret to have sanitary offspring on parole who do such acts, but, if you'll excuse me, it is an act of maximum decency, because someone is falsely going to get a certificate of illness or a certificate of vaccination, and that is how it shows a torque towards a criminal act. In addition, I would like to inform you that, before I came here, we signed the contract for the filling of positions of doctors who were ready - more than five hundred doctors' seats, five hundred thirty doctors' seats - as the U.S. had given us. And because the problem had arisen that you know, within these positions are the positions for the operation of the "Papanikolaou" IC, which you would have heard last week that an issue had been created. IM beds are functional, but with the existing staff and may be opened whenever necessary, however, because obviously this was not enough in itself, the notice came out, and we believe that the procedures should be quickly completed in order to find themselves in these positions. At the same time, we are preparing the notice for nurses. With this, then, we are completing a complete plan and, from there on, from the political leadership side there will be a debate, as we have discussed with the institutions today, there will be possibilities, as the second chance has been, but we will be completely vertical in any action that goes to create a problem in the system and you see that the compulsoryity eventually has had its effect and that people go. Since 84% -85% we have reached 94% -95%, and we also welcome the private doctors photographed yesterday - MPs and private doctors - because today they know that the amendment to sanctions is also coming to them. It's not pleasant to be...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u106	All right, all right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u107	...but in the balance between individual selection and public health, what we put in first place is public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u108	And because it has also proved to be in the research, which you have rightly completed, what happened to Palama, that there was a hole in the system, something for which the Ministry of Health is not responsible, it would be good if the Ministry of Health to consult the relevant Ministry and to close the hole. When an employee can go in alone - just an employee - there's a small matter. It's not your Ministry's fault, but it has to be made. Mr. Ragus has the floor to ask a question before the Minister leaves. Or rather, we should take it in turn. Mr. Brutsi, do you want anything to ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u109	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u110	Oh, no. Mr. Raguss has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. It has facilitated the question that the Minister for Health, Mr Ploris, would like us to do with what he said at the end. Because the truth is that, for all of this, we have already discussed the end of July, when the amendment had come, and to a very large extent the debate that we have had at the time was justified, because now, in fact, no plan is being completed, you are amending the provisions that you have then brought to the vote in Parliament. The question, however, is another, Mr Plouris, and I ask you very much to the extent that you or the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy can answer it, even though you were once again the first to have been a parliamentary representative. Since all this debate on compulsoryity is taking place, you have also made this comment, obviously by photographing Mr Polakis and others, there is one question, which I think is now being addressed - not only by us - to the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. The question in particular is whether the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group has been vaccinated. It's an answer you need to give. I would like to make it clear that we are not asking this question impliedly. We're not saying he's not vaccinated. We want to confirm that the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group has been vaccinated. But you, as a former parliamentary representative and now Minister for Health, or Mr Brutsis, as a Parliamentary representative, must inform Parliament and the Greek people if you are all vaccinated. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Brutsis, if he wants to answer that question, he'll answer when he takes the floor. You, Minister, even though you do not have the responsibility to answer for the parliamentary group, do you want to say something or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u113	Tell them if they all want, and then I'll answer the whole question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u114	So can I ask from the Communist Party why anyone wants to ask? Oh, no. From Mera25?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u115	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u116	Wait, then. I will give the floor first to Mr. Villardo and then to you. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I wanted to tell the Minister of Deputies in his new position and every success. I wish him every success! Second one. I wanted to stress, again, that we are against the mandatoryity of vaccines. That doesn't mean we're against the vaccines, to God! We are against this particular obligation. The third is that if the government really wants to convince the world to be vaccinated, then the best thing it should do is to abolish doctors' impunity. That would convince a large group of the population. My question is: Is it written, very often, in the press, and has been heard by doctors that the vaccinated are sticking and transmitting the virus, as are the invaders? I would like to ask here: is that correct? And, if it's right, what measures will the government take on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u118	Let's go to the Mera25, and the Minister will respond in total to what he is concerned with as Minister. Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u119	Minister, accepting that in any case the sanitary group is an increased health risk, so there must be caution in relation to this group that comes in frequent contact with patients, I would like to ask the following legal and medical questions. Having said that, the measure of suspension of the contract of employment of health workers is intended to increase vaccination and, by extension, to protect public health - in other words, invoke public interest - why you do not accept those who have not been vaccinated either by a certificate of antibodies or by a certificate of illness, which means that they have antibodies, or by tests, always free of charge, molecularly, which also prove to have antibodies, that they are not positive. Because I understand that the choice of vaccination as a measure also violates the principle of proportionality when, at the end of the day, there are other instruments that can serve the intended purpose. We therefore consider that the measure of suspension of contracts of employment is in breach of the principle of proportionality, furthermore, that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u120	I did not give you the reason to place this in your speech. I gave you the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u121	Good, then, given that we think there are other measures, other instruments, other ways of serving the intended purpose, why do you choose the one-sidedness of vaccination? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u122	Mr Delis of the Communist Party has the floor now to ask a question. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. In view of the failure, Mr Minister, to date by the government's tactics of compulsoryity, accompanied, in fact, by severe penalties - a tactic with which we disagree, despite the fact that we all support the fact that the vaccine is a very large weapon, an excellent weapon to deal with this pandemic - does the government consider using a different tactic? In other words, the practice of persuasion towards people who have fears, who have inhibits, have questions, through the setting up of some scientific committees in hospitals, in public places, so as to address these issues that also pose our fellow citizens? Does the government think anything in this direction or will it insist on the same tactic?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u124	Because you have three, four questions, I will give the Minister five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u125	We start with the Greek Solution question. I, as Minister of Health, tell you something simple, and I think it must be understood to everyone. Today, 67% of the adult Greeks have been vaccinated, about 58% of the total population, 68% of the adults. Of these ICUs employ 10% and the remaining 33%, which has not been vaccinated, employs 90%. In other words, 90% of them are invasive, we give the figures every day, as you can see, and that 90% comes from 33%, which is basically a younger population. Because, at 67%, if we go to more than eighty or over seventy years, we see that it is 80%. So the message must be clear. Thanks to the vaccine, you don't get a lot of illnesses, but you have a lot more difficulty in getting sick. If everyone had been vaccinated, it'd be around the In your questions, the proportionality of the measure is judged by the courts...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u126	The impunity, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u127	We're not having a conversation now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u128	In my assessment, because you are entering this process, obviously, it is proportionate and has been judged, not for a coronary, but otherwise, when parents did not inoculate their children, they did not allow them - by decision of the Council of State - to be able to be written at nurseries. Suspension is therefore a measure proportional, because you don't fire him and tell him that for as long as you don't do this act you don't do the job, because you have chosen to put yourself in such a position that you can't provide the job. If there were other vaccines, such as other vaccines and other diseases, there are no other categories that should bear a certificate that they have been vaccinated? Did anyone say there that they were not given the opportunity? So the suspension is a proportionate measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u129	You don't answer my question...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u130	It's a proportionate measure. We have given the possibility to those who have been vaccinated, to those who have been diseased - as you say about antibodies, more than three and a half thousand people are the cases that have been diseased and remain - and to those who have made the first dose. And we give the opportunity - and before, with the law as it was, now if anyone decided to be vaccinated, it would be necessary if he did 'PFIZER' or 'MODERNA' around the two months to return to work, if he did 'ASTRAZENCA' much more, if he did the monodal, he would still want fourteen days - and we would give the possibility - precisely because we do not consider it an opponent, but we put public health above all - to go to work now, provided that he completes the vaccination. Let me tell you about compulsion. When the measure started, we were talking about rates below 80%. There were hospitals with 35% to 40%, for example, in Polygyros. Right now we're at 94%, and this hospital has gone to 87%. Convinced is a very important thing. We're reaching a point where someone's not convinced. In the free population there is no obligation. But when you have chosen to be an oncologist and go see the patient, who is a oncological patient, the state and the ministry in this weight says that, as you have the right to not be vaccinated, the oncology patient has the right to have a doctor and a nurse who will be vaccinated. I come to the question now, Mr Ragosi. Mr Ragosisi, I guarantee you one thing as Minister: Although the theoretically there is access, I will never have access to a file, as I did not know Mr Paulakis was vaccinated. Perhaps, if Mr. Paulakis was in my place, he'd been in all the files and he knew. I cannot therefore know who has been vaccinated as Minister. And certainly, it's not a nice picture for a party leader, the former Prime Minister, to announce that he has been vaccinated, as if there were no personal data and health data. You're the one yelling about all this. But I want to say something straight to SYRIZA. Last week when we discussed how the health system was to be provided, you had put a speaker to answer to me about the amendment by Mr Polakis. And from this step, Mr. Paulakis defended his position that he is not vaccinated. Today why didn't Mr. Paulakis come in, since it's the same thing to say why he was vaccinated? Here two things may happen: Or did the obligation succeed, because he knew that since today Mr. Paulakis could not exercise medicine, he went to vaccinate, or Mr. Paulakis has not been telling the truth about the real facts and has lured people to not be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u131	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u132	But let us keep his example. Mr. Paulakis was vaccinated. It gives the message to those who came to protest at the Ministry - because last week he was in the Ministry against the mandatory vaccinations - that even though we had to go and be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u133	We're done. I would just like to make a brief briefing so that people know, not you, you know - I remembered it because I saw the President who entered the Chamber - that even the last Conference of Presidents was six uninvasive colleagues. Since yesterday there are five of them. Mr. Paulakis was vaccinated. I had the feeling that they'd be allowed to speak from a teleconferencing conference. The Special Secretary rightly reminded me that they would be treated equally with the officials of the House. In keeping with the personal data, only the authorised doctor will check the tests twice a week and, if they are negative, the measures we all follow in this House will be inclined to speak, as long as they are speakers and want to be in this House. The Conference of Presidents does not know who they are, nor who the Conference of Presidents is. The President rightly did not tell them why I said. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Amendment Protocol to the Agreement on the Bilateral Development Assistance Cooperation Program between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Albania, signed in Athens on 20 December 2001'. In fact, we are signing agreements with Albania, and she is breaking down the properties of the Greeks of Albania.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u134	Mr. President, may I ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u135	What can you ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u136	How do you know it's five?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u137	We know why we said. Didn't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, this is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u139	Our parliamentary groups have declared themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u140	I'm sorry, I want to ask the following question...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u141	Your representative at the Conference of Presidents tomorrow asked this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u142	Shall we say it a little?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u143	No, we have nothing to say in plenary. You have a representative at the Conference. She was present. What you want to ask, why don't you ask? Let's ask it tomorrow. We're not going to spoon now how many we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u144	It's unbelievable. You're presenting inaccurate evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u145	On what issue is there any inaccurate evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u146	You won't let me say. How do you know, as a Bureau, how many are invasive? How do you know how many people they are and who they are? I say it's more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u147	Why are you saying that, your representative at the Conference did not stand up to say so? But do you and other people say your representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u148	That or the substance are we going to look at? You said a number. It's five?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u149	All right, the conversation's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u150	How did it end, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u151	Make the point to your representative representing you at the Conference and tell him that he has not spoken. Mr Mamulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are called on to discuss and ultimately vote on a draft law with another imaginable, wishful, i.e. title - it is also used to the end of Mr Mitsotakis's term of office in such securitisations - under the term 'Strengthening of transparency and accountability to the institutional bodies of the State, restoring the integrity of the Single Mobility System and other provisions of the Ministry of Home Affairs'. I am talking about a plastic securitisation because the work and days of the government have not been harmonized for two years with the condition and strengthening of transparency and accountability. And I will explain exactly and I will substantiate my opinion. Of course, today's law at first always tries to manage or regulate an activity that really needs regulation and to impose rules on gifts from public persons, on the part of the draft law with which we naturally agree. The introduction of transparency rules in the form and nature of the influence of economic interest groups in our country is a huge necessity. But is today's law doing it? The answer to this question is, unfortunately, that it is not. Today's law is a communication bubble, a communication ward, which is attempting to help cultivate another profile of transparency for the current government. Probably, with the adoption of the law, the country will be classified as international organisations. However, as far as the substance of the bill is concerned, the bill makes little contribution to limiting the existing lobbying in our country. First of all, the law regulates professional lobbying, that is to say, it regulates a professional activity which is not currently in existence in our country, but will be in parallel with the publication of the FEK in the Official Journal of the Government. The existing lobbying in the country is directly exercised by operators of economic power and representatives of collective representation bodies, who are both excluded - I stress this - by the arrangements of this draft law. The existence is also indirectly exercised, through ombudsmen, by other communications professionals or, more often, by lawyers and lawyers, who are also not covered by this law, since the Minister considered that if he extended - and referred to this committee - the scope of this law and the activities of the legal services would be violated. So the law is doing absolutely nothing about the existence of lobbying in our country, ignoring the best and truly very good international practices around the issue. Similarly, the law does not even lay a first stone, a first stone in the regulation of multitude - known to all of us - aspects of the influence of interest groups such as, for example, the necessary publicity of the meetings of the bodies that submit and hold positions of responsibility, the necessary publicity of the elements of the persons involved in such meetings or, otherwise, the necessary publicity of the agenda - the agenda - of the bodies of political power. The strategy, of course, by not regulating lobbying is served in the draft law, not only by what is said, but also by what is quite blurred and in a naive manner. Thus the definition of influence activities remains shadowy. The obligations of the operators to exercise influence are equally deplorable and, of course, the alleged penalties in cases of non-compliance remain completely undetermined by whom they will be imposed, how they will be weighted and what infringements they refer to, in which infringements they correspond. So this creative ambiguity seems to me to serve a certain purpose. Above all, however, the bill does not put the finger on the type of sunshine for all the flaming issues of transparency that afflict us over time, unfortunately, our country, does nothing to tighten up the framework of "from where you were", when the present system was unable to mobilise mechanisms when the country's Prime Minister himself was found to have failures in his "from now on". It does nothing to fund the parties, while the ruling party has expanded its obligations towards the banks, and indeed - from what we learn - it does not serve as a obligation in the past few months. It does nothing about the institutions and media financing procedures - Mr Petsas is also present - after the megaton scandal of the famous 'Petsa list'. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by referring to some of the other provisions of the bill, some of the unfavourable aspects, which, however, are of major importance for the proper functioning of the state and especially for local government. The Minister, with the third part of the draft law, is attempting to address, among other things, two major issues of public administration. Firstly, to abolish the exceptions from the general public mobility system. Of course, the Minister forgot at this point to include the hundreds of exceptions introduced into the system from July 2019 until today. I do not know why they have been so magically excluded and not all the others have to do with them. It's, I think, worthy of reference. Secondly - and more important in my view - to impose limits. It imposes a restriction, i.e. a direct reduction in the number of contractors in the wider public sector. Those who have served in positions of responsibility, especially in local government, know that after more than ten years of monument the empty organic positions have now exceeded every record. The proper functioning of the public and local authorities - and not only - is at stake in view of this structural shortage in organic positions. That's disgusting, that's the need for the contractors. And they have been doing a very important job over the last ten years. And what does the government come here to do? It is coming to drastically restrict this number. And, beware, it does not know that on its own government - the Minister - contractors have been launched for the emergencies facing the state because of the pandemic, as if they did not know that, for example, the failure of the fire-fighting mechanism in recent fires was primarily related to your refusal to hire seasonal firefighters, as if they did not know that the local government agencies were working, as I said, since the start of the 2008 crisis mainly through emergency personnel. This provision, if it is not accompanied by a brave recruitment programme for the municipalities and regions of the country, is simply a mechanism for extending outsourcing, which the government likes strongly and diversely likes to exercise even local self-government, which, of course, does not surprise anyone, given the Government's insistence to legislate on a mandate from the groups of special economic interests which today's bill is supposed to restrict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Villardo, I have already announced Mr. Brutsi. Then I'll give the floor to you. Mr Grigoriadis will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, just for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u156	No, I've already announced him. After all, you want your speech, you want intervention, whatever you want. But Mr. Brutsi, I've told him three times before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I ask you to speak on personal grounds about something you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u158	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u159	You said, before that, that at the Conference of Presidents there was a debate, I and Mr Avdelas, who are representatives of the Greek Solution at the Conference...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u160	It's been briefed. There was no conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u161	Yeah. ...and I said supposedly that it's a lie... that they're five inconveniences. It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u162	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u163	That we're five. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u164	I didn't say that. I said, ask your representative about what you're asking me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u165	We at the conference...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u166	I didn't even remember if it was you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u167	It was me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u168	Or Mr. Avidelas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u169	At the Conference of Presidents, Mr Tasoulus, the President, said that the number of invasives is one-digit one-digit. He didn't say anything more. He didn't ask anyone, we didn't ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u170	I didn't say there was a conversation. I said the number. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u171	But it is not true, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u172	That's what I said. Okay, if it's not true, come to the conference tomorrow and prove that you know it's not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u173	But you were present and you know that Mr. Tasoula said a one-digit number and no specific number. If that's possible! I don't like being called untrue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u174	Good. I understand what your problem is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u175	But you can undo it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u176	No, I'm not unanswering anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u177	How can you not undo it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u178	You said it, we're done. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u179	Mr. President, I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u180	In your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u181	Not in my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the heart of the debate on the bill, let me make an introductory remark, which I consider to be important. A moment ago, the speaker on behalf of SYRIZA, Mr Mamoulakis, expressed the SYRIZA's co-responsibility for the bill, putting this particular bill together, said: we denounce the bill. None of what the bill says is in the right direction. It's a womb and a communal bubble. This is SYRIZA's position. I have also heard his rapporteur, Mr Zachariadis, about saying this, developing other issues than the bill - I will say about them, Mr Zachariadis - and Mr Ragosi. This is SYRIZA's position. You know, the only easy thing from the point of view of the position of Ministers and Members of the New Democracy in such positions, which by definition is your recommended position for all the bills - to the overwhelming majority, to be more precise - is this: Well, four and a half years, what have you done? Why didn't you legislate on the lobbying issue, which is a very serious matter for transparency in the public life of the place? You have had the opportunity for four and a half years to bring in your own legislative initiative, which concentrates all of what you are saying today is missing from the bill. Why didn't you do it for four and a half years? That's the easy one for us. But we are overcoming this political debate, because I want you to be essential and useful in public dialogue and democracy, and we are going further. I'll tell you about the provisions of the bill right after the second. We are following the counter-problems against the government's health policy in public debate. A moment ago Mr Ploris, the new Minister for Health, brought in a specific provision. I don't understand what SYRIZA's position is. Are you in favour of compulsoryity or against compulsoryity? And at the end of the day, this argument which sounds to me is a weak argument. Go ahead instead of being compelled to persuasion, convince. But is there, Mr Ragosi, because you put this question and the position of the particular, more convincing argument from the evidence given by the Minister for Health - has the government given it - that - and this must be heard by society - by all the people, the population, who are now in the ICMs, 90% are inconsistent? Is there a more convincing argument? The world that listens to us and today remains there, fortified in a perception, either by an anti-infectious perception syndrome or by a horrendous syndrome, which is justified at the end of the day. Each one has one of his own perceptions. But when he hears the argument that his life is at stake, is there a more convincing argument than these elements, which are the most important argument, that 90% of the invasive citizens are currently in the ICM? In other words, of the four hundred people, which are about today, forty would only be in the ICU today. Let's go to the bill now. What is the bill, ladies and gentlemen? It is a regulatory bill, which seeks a few simple things: two institutional arrangements where there was an empty law level and a corrective intervention on a very institutionally important issue, which is mobility. And I would like to explain that the first issue is to fill a gap in the country's own democracy, in the sense of transparency and the effort to improve transparency indicators, essentially, practically, but also to do something that exists in the rest of Europe, in the rest of the world, namely the institutional framework for lobbying. Is that necessary? Of course it's necessary. Is there a legislative vacuum? Of course there is. What are we talking about? Are we criticising the government, which is now coming to fill this institutional gap and is thus forming it with this legislative initiative? Come and say remarks to improve it, bring proposals, of course, but do not be negative and complaining about issues that come today to fill an institutional gap in our country, for which four and a half years you have done nothing. I read the information mentioned by our excellent rapporteur, Mr Kyranakis: in 2012, in the ninety-fourth place, our country. In 2015 it had come down to the fifty-eighth position - I mean the position on international transparency by the International Transparency Organisation, which ranked the countries - in 2019 had gone up to the sixty-seventh place, and in 2020 it had gone back to the fifty-seventh place. And as Mr Kyranakis quite rightly said - I am in agreement with him, I think - that it may seem that the indicator is improved - we are leaving aside criticism of SYRIZA that he has gone up for his day, we are forgetting it - but we are not satisfied. The fifty - nineteenth position presented by the International Transparency Organisation must be reduced further. We must therefore make an effort, whether by creating a new institutional framework or by legislative initiatives, to take this classification further downwards, to improve transparency in the functioning of our country's democracy. And what does the interior ministry do? And I should like to congratulate both Mr Voridis and Mr Petsa for taking this legislative initiative to their staff as a whole. They come and intervene in an institutional vacuum, a legislative vacuum that existed in Greece. The creation of the Transparency Register is the National Transparency Authority. This is what we are voting on today, ladies and gentlemen, especially SYRIZA. This intervention of the institutional, positive, we are doing on behalf of democracy and transparency. The second issue, on which there was no objection from what I understood, is the creation of a framework for the gifts received by the Presidency of the Republic and the Government. There was also an institutional vacuum here, and it comes for the first time and settles them very well. One may have called into question 200 euros to be 250-300. Anyway, there is a limit of EUR 200, over which all the things that are being formed within the framework of the governments and the Presidency of the Republic are gaining a normality for the gifts in question, and I think there is no objection here because I have not heard any criticism. And the third to which I have heard criticism was the third institutional intervention by the government, which, in essence, is doing, ladies and gentlemen, by the SYRIZA, primarily, an important institution that has not been called into question by anyone, the institution of mobility, which has been created before this House. It's a positive institution. The institution took advantage of him and kept him and SYRIZA held him for four and a half years, and he was right to do so. The government comes because it observed institutional discrepancies and derogations that substantially undermine the institution by means of sixty provisions, which have come and undermined the institution through derogations that exist, and it is coming today and correcting it. Are we against this? Do we believe or do we not believe in the institution of mobility? That's the answer. If the SYRIZA side believes in the institution of mobility as an institutional framework that is positive for the country and the public sector, it should vote for it. It substantially reduces the differences that existed with laws both in law and in SYRIZA and in the New Democracy, so as to strengthen more and shield the institution of mobility. That's our bill. I have quite simply described that these provisions come to regulate and form a new institutional framework and improve another, mobility, in areas where we did not have an institutional framework and I think that these should only be judged positive and should find a positive response from SYRIZA. Let me now make two remarks, completing my position, which I consider necessary because they are timely. Ladies and gentlemen, this government of Mr Mitsotakis, of the New Democracy, I repeat the New Democracy, this government within its reformist momentum and intervention from the first day it was elected, unfortunately, faced a major crisis, unprecedented. This crisis is called the 'Crisis of the Pandemic'. It was an uncharted sea, which we faced from the outset with everything we had, with seriousness and responsibility. And we're where we are today. This is an unprecedented phenomenon, unfortunately this pandemic crisis has not gone through, continued and continuously taking action and using every weapon to limit it. The second thing that emerged - all of a sudden, let me say - is the crisis in the price rises. Is this a serious matter? Of course it is serious, because these appreciations come at the end of the process and the chain of economics and eat the income of households, citizens and workers, thus substantially lowering their standard of living. This means dishonestness, when they are cleared from the line of inflation, of normal inflation. It's expected. Is the phenomenon of dishonesty Greek? No, it's global. Why is that? Because very simply all the economists are now converging that the European central banks, due to the pandemic, have made a brave gesture to support workers, jobs, businesses and money cuts. I am one of those who believe that this has to be done to support the population worldwide for those countries that have done so. The same has happened in Europe. And this system is now coming through the world through the money that has been given and shapes a demand to which the supply cannot respond, i.e. the supply of products from industries worldwide. So we see prices in feed at world level, in soybean, in natural gas, in transport. Ladies and gentlemen, transport in the sky has been evacuated compared to the past of transport through ships, particularly through ships, across all means of transport. And this price increase comes chainwise to have an impact on the income of all households. Here comes the government's answer. In what way? There is one way to shield and safeguard the income of households, the unemployed, the workers, the weak social groups. Has he taken initiatives so far? Yeah, he's got it. What initiatives are these? Firstly, at the level of the pandemic, it dealt with the repayable advances with substantial amounts and, secondly, at the level of the pandemic it supported all workers and businesses with the suspension of contracts of employment. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] At the other level as a whole, through the reform agenda that the government had had reduced taxes, reduced VAT, increased tax duty, reduced insurance contributions, reduced HISPIA, reduced VAT. So all this is a protective basket, which guards household income. Question: Is that enough? Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter which I believe the Prime Minister himself will answer at the Thessaloniki Exhibition. It is a serious issue, which is not easily answered, because every time you make a proposal to support income, you must at the same time be very careful about the budget gap that is being created and how to safeguard budgetary discipline in the country. Fortunately, we are at a time when strict budgetary constraints do not exist, so we can assess that these appreciations are of a periodic nature, until there is a global balance, to make the necessary financial intervention to support households, workers and the unemployed, so that all of this can function as a protection shield for household income. I am optimistic that in this second unprecedented global crisis of reflexes the Greek Government will respond very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, my colleague. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Ragus, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you understand that, after so long a debate has taken place on your own initiative whether members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group have been vaccinated or not, it is time for you to answer through the official representatives of your parliamentary group if you are able to confirm and assure the Greek people that all the Members and Members of the New Democracy have been vaccinated and go to Stepma and the former Parliamentary spokesman until the day before yesterday, Mr. We are not a new Republic. We do not care who or who has not been vaccinated and I say this very frankly. We are interested in the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who has raised so much public debate on whether or not the political opponents of Mr Mitsotakis have been vaccinated, if, therefore, this New Republic of Mr Mitsotakis has been in the ranks of MPs and Bulgarians who have not yet been vaccinated, then Mr Mitsotakis is personally exposed. Obviously, we understand the impossibility - I will say - of the official representatives of the parliamentary majority to say the simple thing to the Greek people 'yes, they have all been vaccinated'. Why don't you say it? Why didn't you say so? Are we not entitled to assume that in the end there are New Democracy MPs or MPs who have not been vaccinated at the time you were lifting and swinging the finger as public prosecutors of your political opponents? I'm so sorry. If, on the basis of simple common sense, you are not highly exposed to the possibility of having unvaccinated Members in your ranks, at the time you attacked your political opponents, then I think there is no other interpretation. I wish it were not, but how would it not be, after two official representatives go up here and do not say the simple 'yes, they have all been vaccinated', as the Chief of Administrator's Office said the other day in public? Mr. Vorides is now missing. It's Mr. Pechas from the interior department. Anyway. We told Mr. Voridis next time. He was disturbed, he was hurt, but it wasn't our intention to bother him or hurt him. We said that it was okay, this Parliament now has a long history, a long tradition. It incorporates a very important legislative production of work over a period of time, and all this hundred years and more make it easy to understand that too many legislative initiatives have come to this Parliament, too many laws have been passed in Greece by this Parliament, laws which are essentially divided into two categories. Maybe more, but this time, let's stay in two categories. They are legislative initiatives that others are talking about, whether society or parties, or institutions to criticise or approve, so they are legislative initiatives that really change things, create new data, and that is why they are being discussed by the others who took the legislative initiative. There are also legislative initiatives that are passed and made laws of the state - tens, hundreds of them exist in the history of the Greek Parliament - for which only those who have been proposed, no one else. Everyone else ignores them, they don't care about them. Today's legislative initiative is another legislative initiative by the Ministry of Interior, which belongs to the second category. A law on which only Mr Vorides will speak, as Mr Vorides only speaks, and the other legislative initiatives that have come, at least in his day, will be passed today. In the days of Mr Theodorikos there have been some legislative initiatives, such as the vote of the judges or the electoral law, which others will have to talk about. However, those who have come last year from the Ministry of Interior are legislative initiatives to which Mr Vorides is speaking and will speak only, because they do not in fact have any particular significance, no particular legislative, political and hence social and economic value. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are now using a point of order. You say: 'How do you blame us', meanwhile everyone blames you, 'for this legislative initiative, while we are the first to recommend regulation of this legislative environment for the issues of lobbying in our country?' But it is precisely because you are being criticised for this legislative initiative, precisely because it is the first legislative initiative to come into a 'virtual' field, precisely because it does not have the urgency, the urgency, which would force you to bring a slap here, for that very reason you are completely unjustified for this piece of legislation you are proposing. Our rapporteur, Mr Zachariadis, and the committees and today, are not what we are saying or saying to you. It is what some people have said very basic - let me say - institutions, representatives, civil society bodies, public life in the country and who should have been the most defenders of this legislative initiative. When you bring legislative initiative to regulate the lobbying issue in Greece and you have the International Transparency - Greece toward you, what does that mean? You practically had her in front of you. The criticism was not a criticism of the points. For anyone who can understand and read it was an essential, fundamental criticism. When you have the Vouliwatch to you for this legislative initiative, what does that mean? People for reasons of courtesy did not come out to denounce either one or the other, nor did they use such verbs, but basically in their criticism they had built up this whole legislative initiative. Then what other proof do you want? Of course, not all of this happens at random, because all of this comes as a result of the fact that a bad million are coming. The beginning is half of everything. You didn't do a prefecture. You've had all the time. What was the urgency or urgency that justifies coming here today with such a bill here and introducing its vote? Two years you've been in the government and the current government's political leadership for all these months. Could you not have done something, a good preparation, a nomadic one, because the country really needs such a framework? Now you will tell me what the result is, since we say it is essentially an unimportant and valueless bill. That the changes that are going to be made to this bill should actually bring what the country needs and which is in no way included in this legislative initiative. Is this all random? It is not by chance, because it is neither the first nor the last bill, and that is not only about the Ministry of the Interior. It's not just a criticism of the Ministry of Interior. This is a global criticism to the government, this sloppiness, irresponsibility, this superficiality in approaching either legislation or policy or decision-making. There is a superficiality, which is inextricably linked and which, unfortunately, has been paid and recently paid by the Greek people with what we are saying, namely, the 'final state', with which you are supposed to have come to govern the country. Because, as is shown by the political conclusions that come out of this bill, these come if you see it from the great picture we say, from the whole of the governance model of Mitsotakis and New Democracy in Greece today, that is, by handlessness, irresponsibility, shallowness, lightness, and with a so-called state of service, which day more and more, let me say so, the most widespread joke on the lips of Greek citizens. And I will say three very characteristic evidence that substantiates this claim. Speaking of the state, we had the fires. I will talk about some aspects that have not been discussed so far in some way. But they must be illuminated at some point too. So, after the fires, and Mr Mitsotakis himself, he says that for the long-term strategy to address the problems that the fires left behind in Evia and elsewhere I will set up a committee under Mr Beno for long-term planning." First of all, Mr Benos and any of the petitions I make to faces have nothing to do with criticism of faces. But look at what Mr Mitsotakis' reasoning is hiding. See the view that Mr Mitsotakis himself hides about the ultimate state and about the Greek state. That the state or its own, the so-called state, to plan for the long-term response of the devastating consequences of this summer's fires cannot rely on its own executives, on its own structures. There is neither human beings nor structures nor tools to plan in the long term the so-called state or the Greek state, but there must be a non-institutional factor leading such an effort. This is the ultimate proof that there is neither a state in Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second issue that arises is the question. We heard the conversation with Mr Apostolakis. We've seen many sides and most of the time he put them in mind and Alexis Tsipras in our speech the other day at the level of Chiefs in front of Mr. Mitsotakis. But let's light up another side. So when Mr Apostolakis announced by the Government Representative that for a few minutes the commitment of the Ministry of Civil Protection was made, we heard what happened and saw how it ended up. When the government had to defend itself, it obviously notified us by order of Mr Mitsotakis that the original intention of Mr Mitsotakis was to have a substitute for civil protection. And because, as they say, he disproved it or I don't know to what extent Mr. Apostolakis disproved it - Mr. Apostolakis asked him to do the ministry. Is this Greece of 2021? Is this the perfect Greece? Is there a Ministry in Greece on the basis of the Minister's negotiation to get the consent of any worthy Greek or Greek person to put him in his government? Is that the institutional concept of how the country is governed? Is that a model of governance? And I come to something last, and I close with that, Madam President. We first heard from the government the choice of Apostolakis. What did Apostolakis mean? It was, in my opinion, consistent with what Mr Mitsotakis said in the debate at the level of Heads of State or Government in the House, namely, in his view that the problem was operational. Because, as you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, he came here and said again that the problem with fires is to catch up with them at first. So it enlightened the need for an operational mechanism. Our opinion is different. But I say what Mr Mitsotakis said, as it was in the debate that took place at the level of Heads of State or Government. So he comes in and says that since the problem is operational, who do I have to put? Considers an ex-HAO chief, a former admiral, Chief of Navy General Staff. Compatible logic. How does it leave after the choice of Apostolakis, from the choice of the operational minister, and goes to the selection of Mr Stylianides - our obviously worthy fellow citizen, otherwise, like all those names I have said - but who has nothing to do with business plans and the implementation of operational actions? We know that Mr Stylianides is carrying out a CV which, in particular, shows his experience in the Com munity, so his experience in designs, institutional interventions, structures and so on. How is it possible for the final state of Mr Mitsotakis to leave in one week on the understanding that I will have an operational Minister for Civil Protection and within a few days to say that I will put one who understands or knows issues at institutional and structural level? Are you getting out? You're getting out, and where you end up is what we said, superficiality, shallowness, lightness! This is the model of governance of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u187	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u188	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u189	I will not try to answer the honourable Member and Parliamentary Representative of Representation, but I would like to take advantage of and present an amendment, which I hope will also have the general acceptance of, and which concerns the companies in northern Evia. This amendment is of an urgent nature, because it concerns the checks and every day when the checks pass, they are given a different character when they are unpaid. The amendment says that for those enterprises that are active in the municipalities of northern Evia, i.e. in Istia, Ethiopia and Mandudi, the following is taken care: For the securities due from 7 September to 31 December, the deadlines for the expiry, appearance and payment of one hundred and twenty days are suspended. For the records due from 3 August, since the fires occurred, up to the entry into force of the arrangement, the deadline to pay them back by a hundred and twenty days is extended, so that they will not be registered in “Tyresia”. It is also taken care of the bearers of these securities, i.e. those who receive the check and who will not be paid for this period in two ways: either by suspending their tax obligations from VAT declarations for the months August to December or, if the securities suspended exceed 50% of the average monthly turnover of the previous year, they also receive the benefit of not registering in Tyresia for their own securities. In this way that is similar to the way we handled the issue of cheques and in the previous phase of pandemic, we provide an additional facility to these businesses, because the blow to northern Evia was obviously not only a blow to those who were directly hit by the fire, due to disasters in their properties, but also a total blow to the local economy. And I take a little advantage of this small intervention to say that today we have had considerable positive economic elements which show that our national economy has shown resistance to the blow that pandemic has brought. I believe that these positive elements, along with what comes from tourism, will be able to form a basis for a better period for the country and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u192	On what issue, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u193	For the amendment by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u194	Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u195	First of all, I would like to say to the Minister that we agree with this amendment. Of course, people who had so many disasters in the region must be helped. But we think that it is too short a period of one hundred and twenty days. The government should have seen some longer because, obviously, these people will not be able to do anything in four months. The area has been completely destroyed. As regards, now, the good news you said, and I wish the Greek economy would better go, I would like to say that our forecast from the beginning of the year was that the recovery - we are not, of course, talking about growth after the collapse of last year - will be around 4.5%. That was our prediction and we are pleased to see it verified for the country. The problem, of course, is not the growth, but the deficits and debts the government creates. The deficits of 16 billion last year and another 16 billion this year, according to your forecast, are huge. So that is something that needs to be looked at in particular. The country is constantly charged. You've borrowed 41 billion. And this, because you imposed the lockdown, which we all know now, does not offer anything. These must be carefully monitored so that the country can go better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Skondra has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that I am really sorry that my Region, Cardica, has been in the news these days because of the incident that took place at the Palama Health Centre. However, I would also like to say that this should not be able to tarnish and reduce all the efforts made in Cardiff and the good results of the vaccination centres, health centres and all those involved in this process. I now come to this bill. As you know, politics affects and shapes all aspects of the daily life of citizens. Politicians are the people who are called upon to institutionalise and of course to apply the rules, always solely in the interests of the state and citizens. In every operational democracy there are some who disagree with the decisions of the majority and the rulers. Those who feel affected by changes that are decided are reacting. This, though logical, has several negative consequences. Sometimes, they support parties and opinion leaders who poison public dialogue with easy and unnoticed often allegations of interoperable and corruption for their own reasons. This is a deep institutional problem that a few years ago, in 2016 in particular, had publicly emerged as current Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. He said the practice of poisoning the public dialogue at its core has a break in public confidence with the political system. In fact, he has tabled innovative ideas to combat the complex, but also to deal with such phenomena. It was committed that once the country’s governance is taken over, it will implement the framework of these proposals in order to close the rams of corruption and interlocutory, protect them from malicious government officials and, above all, restore citizens’ confidence in the political system. Many of the announcements at that time have already been put in place and, of course, we continue until the best possible shield of the functioning of the state and democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in public life the attempt to divide society between honest and dishonest is immoral and dangerous. Unholy are those present as ambassadors of moral excellence. Fortunately, though, life quickly disproves them by revealing their demagogy and targets. Clearly, corruption and complexity are carcinomas in the hearts of democracy and must be fought continuously, overall and decisively. Otherwise, society itself and the state are at risk of collapse. The New Democracy has been vertically opposed to all forms of corruption and complexity, as we stand against all efforts to undermine our democratic institutions. In this direction, therefore, a further step is being taken today with the legislation of the Ministry of Interior. Our Minister, Mr Vorides, introduces rules of transparency and accountability to the so-called 'lobbying', the ex-institutional exercise of influence, that is, where representatives of various sectors of the economy, but also of civil society organisations, are active in order to promote their interests towards legislative or state power. This is a practice of decades around the world, from the United States to the European Union. In Brussels daily "lobsters" visit the political decision-makers to inform, propose and influence the institutional bodies in the formulation and taking of future rules and regulations. Where such communication by the institutions with representatives of interests takes place without a specific framework, problems and corruption may arise. Another danger is to incriminate those involved for controversial practices, by suspicion, treacherous or even naive. There have been cases where people have been stigmatized and misguided. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government first establishes in the history of the country a framework so that the communication of the state institutions, the President of the Republic and the members of the government with representatives of interests is held by a framework of safeguarding the integrity, transparency and accountability in the exercise of influence. At the same time, a National Transparency Register is set up, in which those representing interest groups must be registered and wishing to exercise legal influence over government officials. This is a public electronic database that will be accessible through the Single Digital Gate of Public Administration, the gov.gr. Those who are registered in this register are officially granted the right to communicate with members of the Government. At the end of each year, registered persons shall submit to the National Transparency Authority an annual declaration. There is a description of how the activity is carried out and the name of the institution to which it has been addressed. In short, a wall of protection is being created in relations between institutions, state power and representatives of business groups or bodies of the "civil society" that are interested in actively in the formulation of public policy. The activity of influence is internationally recognised as legal practice and as an act of participation in political life, as it aims to represent the interests of the community as a whole, namely the adoption and implementation of appropriate policies. It helps to create a more complete picture, since it highlights different aspects and makes the decision-making process more comprehensive, since it is, of course, exercised in integrity and transparency, because otherwise, there is unfortunately no room for suspicion and conflict, as we have said, but also to develop corruption, opacity and parasiticism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. In implementing this practice, citizens are also informed of any activities and gains a clear picture of the groups involved in this process. I consider the creation of this framework to be absolutely positive, as this strengthens the principle of good governance and strengthens citizens' confidence in the political system, which has, admittedly, been shaken. Equally positive and fair are the arrangements laid down in the second part of the draft, which relate to the elimination of exceptions from the Single Mobility System in the public sector. These exceptions, geographical or sectoral, posed a number of problems to the public administration, as well as personal and family problems to workers. He was giving birth, at the same time, to an intense sense of injustice. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all to vote together on this bill, because I believe you understand that with every piece of legislation in the current Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, our country is becoming more modern, more effective, fairer, always showing respect for our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, my colleague. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think we have a unique, perhaps not only pan-European, but also a global originality, to make this bill, because it seems that this bill is a way of legitimising and legislating on all the institutions of the Greek state. If my reading is correct, congratulations why you're writing history! You are also officially legitimate by Parliament of Greece to exercise influence, namely corruption, that is to say, money laundering, corruption, that is, all that constitutes hell. Just legalize them and good for you! Look, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law and officially as I said, the complexity of our political scene, of course, centred on the neoliberal policies and ideological practices of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which, as I said before, has the only privilege of being both Prime Minister and a limited company. So without shame - I mean, without any contraction, with a great deal of shame, you adopt a model of elite characterized by absolute sovereignty of the economic operator. That is, if this draft law is passed today, tomorrow our elected governments will be simple managers. Let the Greek people know. If this law goes through, Greek people, tomorrow whoever you vote to rule you will not rule you. He will manage governance as a predator of the powerful economic elite of oligarchy, local excellence and parasitic Europeans. I would like to repeat all this, from tomorrow, with our legislative handiwork, legally. Until now, the "Tsohatopoulos" - late man is the man, but in my humble opinion the dead are not justified, it has to do with his life and his state whether he will be vindicated with his death - from tomorrow he will be legally "Tsohatopoulos" in this country. I'm saying that so we can all figure it out. I will not eat you any time because it has been said by six special speakers in my humble opinion, Mrs Adamopoulou, my partner and partner, and in general those who have been put, even the parliamentary representatives have explained in detail what this is all about. I shall be standing here, Mr Pecha, in three articles - I address you because you are the only minister who happens to be here at this time - which is crucial to us, and it is important to say a few things. The first is Article 13. This defines the content, operation and manner of maintenance of the registry, the terms, conditions and elements of registration, which will be the institutions that can accept interest groups and the procedure for examining petitions, complaints and sanctions as well as any other necessary technical or relevant detail and, finally, the details of the preparation of a code of conduct for lobbyists. Everything - and it is important that everyone listens to us, everyone understands it, for you, I know that you know it, even those who do not know it, you know it, but those who are out there are very interested in me - the above critics will be determined by ministerial decisions. What does it mean by a few words? For the Greek people, I repeat, I say it. You know what that means, dear Greek people, that? Does it mean that if this law passes here today, our ministers, or the next government, who will accept the so-called lobista who, of course, will have a regular habit in this country - a century - what will he try to do? He'll try, whoever he is, not you, to bribe them, to finance them. Hereinafter the ministers who will accept the "lobista" that will have this fine intention, fair to capitalism - you are capitalists, I Marxist - to enrich his company and have every right. From now on, the ministers of any government will accept this "lobistast" who will try to finance them and try to bribe them will be the same ones who will judge what action he might have and what he has said - he can tell them "take a clock", "now take 1 million", "now sit here and close you with a company in the Faeroe Islands that you won't look either like or me" 5.6 billion - are criminally collusive attempts to bribe or not. And I ask you all: does it sound serious to you, if I am willing to grab them, to trade, to entrust me with the task of judging whether or not the words, the approach of the "lobista" that I had toward me is an attempt to fund? I'm the only one who's spotless. I'll tell you otherwise. As long as you're excellent, you're wonderful, you're all angelic creatures. You have no guarantee that the next government - it may be me, be beaten, but we say! - if it's another guy, why wouldn't he? You're moral. But if the next one, the next one, the third government after you, has a minister who is immoral to this minister, do you make this draft law judge whether the man in his face is trying to bribe him? But if he's immoral and wants to bribe, even if he brings a mountain money into the Ministry and drags them on his back with a billion and it's tons, he's still gonna say: "I didn't see anything reproach. Okay, it's fine, we're on our way." That's what's gonna happen. For the gift policy, okay, what can I tell you? Gift policy with the President of the Republic, etc. You know it. It's funny. What do you institutions now to understand the people who listen to us? That up to EUR 200 is not money. No politicians were funding 200 euros or 2 000 euros or 20,000 euros or - I dare say that too - or 200,000 euros! They take millions of Greek politicians who "hate", as everyone knows out there. So it says the famous bill that is now passed that more than EUR 200 automatically will be considered a donation to the state rather than to the natural person. We're saved! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we really have been saved! I remind you of the example of the relentless, late boy of Chohazopoulou. As you will remember, there was no incriminating evidence against him. Do you know why there was no one? Because it did not get a single Euro watch, a two thousand euro clock, a 200 thousand euro clock, a brand car or a small boat. He didn't even get one euro. You know what he did? He had his relatives who did not have a first degree of family in order not to have the same last name as him to recommend with other locals on various islands of the type Cayman, Faroes, Cyprus and so on, paradigms, that the money stolen from the taxpayers shares a pack of wolf that has stolen them. That's how Mr. Chohatzopoulos got his money. He created a company with its relatives who did not seem to be related to him, another company from a third country transferred to a company that had nothing to do with Mr Tsohatzopoulos and after a while it proved to be legal and final that the sum that he was deprived of, which he stole from all of us, and above all from those outside us, not from the media, Mr Tsohatzopoulos was over 50 million years ago, and even thirty years ago, I would remind him that they had a different value of 50 million euros. Are you saying the 200 euros that you set a limit and then the gift comes from 201 euros and goes to the state to be a bribery block? So you're mocking society for a few words? You're telling her that this is how bribes happen, that someone comes and brings you a watch, brings you a jacket, brings you a shirt? And the stones know that this is not the way I think quite clearly described you before. You're setting up a company that doesn't seem to be related to you in a tax haven, another company from a third country pours money on your behalf in tax haven't been taken by your relatives who don't seem to be your relatives. And how do you betray yourself? From - let everyone hear it - a single nominal share that ran from the documentaries or the macaroni of Chochazopoulou - one was - he was found by an honest judiciary of Sarzetakis and managed to convict him of money laundering, for the sake of public money, for money, for passive, for active bribery. For God's sake, the eyes were convicted. So it's a little ridiculous. The final article, which is important, is Article 20, ladies and gentlemen, on the abolition of a series of exceptional secondments and transfers to public bodies characterised as derogations to the mobility system. The article has already brought together a huge number of negative comments, Minister, and has caused the reaction of many bodies affected, Madam President, because the mobility system does not, unfortunately, cover all the public and even more, the government has made a number of exceptions from the system, which is something that seems to be an attempt to unify the public, to actually be an attempt to further fragment it with a number of bodies excluded, as I said before you. I conclude with the bill we are debating today because it has been analysed in detail here. I shall refer as a Parliamentary spokesman for a moment - I have this, I am a former actor and hopefully also future, as soon as you release me, the Greek people! - only two things: First, this reform was amazing for many reasons. Already in previous speeches I told me some of the reasons it was amazing. Now I'm going to stand by one thing: What does it mean to mean that we need, apart from the Ministry of Civil Protection that was in place, to do a sub service and that ministry? It means, Madam President, communication, communication and communication. Does it mean that Evia burned me? I'll communicate, I won't look to fix it. Does it mean the National Health System collapse? I'll communicate, it's the invaders. It means communication, communication, communication. And why does it mean communication, communication? Why, as you say, is it so important for the Ministry of Civil Protection to become a Ministry of Civil Protection, then I ask you: is the Ministry of Education less important? I think you'll all agree that it's just as important, if not more important, so you'll just have to - get over it, Ministers - to set up a student's training department. We have a Ministry of Education, let's build a student's training department. Also, why don't you make a department for the treatment of the sick, the patient? These are ridiculous things and the most ridiculous, Madam President, it is the gathering - not because the parties that I will mention are ridiculous - the sounding assemble which causes every person to think about the phrase 'Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Civil Protection'. Do you know what reminded me of me, Madam President? JRC (m­l) and M­LJ JRC. There were reasons for such communist parties after the 1968 split. There were reasons, I don't know if there were any today. But there are two Ministries with the same object while until yesterday there was this as a sub-service of the Ministry if it is not a communication, let me answer what it might be. I shall end with two fine amendments. The first article of the Ministry of Finance's amendment relates to measures to support operations by the municipalities of Northern Evia affected by catastrophic fires in August 2021 and the second article of the amendment extends the exemption - and this, Mr Pizza, concerns you to a certain extent, even indirectly - from the payment of an advertisement for the years 2017 to 2020, provided for by the 2020 Act, for newspaper publishers and electronic media enterprises, that is to say, for those known to us all. Now look at what's going on here. With regard to the first article, of course, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in agreement, as I imagine everyone here - it is obvious - that the initiative to assist and strengthen the inhabitants and businesses of the regions affected by the catastrophic fires in August. Mera25 has presented a series of proposals in this direction. In this sense, we are very concerned about the adequacy of the regulations put forward by your amendment, as regards what is provided for in this first article of the amendment. In particular, we are expressing serious scepticism over the period of a hundred and twenty days, which, in our opinion, is certainly inadequate for the development of the affected area and of businesses. The Eye has not been able to reach - not to grow - where it was four years ago and will reach such a multi-purpose area? All enterprises based in it how will they be developed? The second article of the amendment - and it concerns you indirectly, as I said, Mr Petsa - is purely rousphetological. In the context of your list, the Pecha list, what are you doing? You are exempted from paying an ad and e-information enterprises under the pretext of pandemic. Things are starting to drive us crazy. In what way and according to which government's brain could the sites be affected by the pandemic? Everyone was in there scratching their phones to get in and read the websites. How could the sites have been affected by the fires from the disaster in northern Evia? In no way. The sites simply constitute an organized army of the New Democracy, and to a lesser extent also SYRIZA, to mislead and misinform the Greek people. So after your 21 million "list" Mr Petsa, the government comes today and says: "I legislate, I bring an amendment from the "window" to regain my friendly websites, all the sites, which are tens of thousands and all those who are present in Jerusalem, who live here and are not foolish we know that most of them are financed and there are to serve the Government of Nea Democracy - "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.". I conclude, Madam President, with the second, even more alarming, amendment, that of Mr Ploiros. I have a special place to place on it. You have been introducing a new national division for some time now - and the cake cherry is this amendment. From this step, Mera25 has been giving you a resignation for months and we are now invoking you and saying: you can stop the national division. First of all, we also believed that you are just punishing those who are not vaccinated, without any moral right to do so. To make one thing clear: Mera25 has been in place for a year and a half fanatical in favour of vaccinations, it is against coercion, and it is mainly against pretending that we force some to be vaccinated for a functional reason of health and to do so for another reason. I will prove immediately, Madam President, in a minute and I will leave, I will leave the Step, because it is what I say. It turns out that this whole story of the national division and the separation of Greeks into vaccinated and invasive is just an attempt to cover your paths, ladies and gentlemen of the government. What are these processions? We are the last in vaccination - and it is your achievement and not mine - throughout Europe. With the Commission's booze, we're the last of the last ones. We are the worst in the dead, depending on our population, the worst of the worst. Let the people who listen to us know. Haven't you even made one intake and dare to denounce the uninvasive permanent doctors of the ERC? With almost fourteen thousand dead in the country, we are the last in tests throughout Europe. You do the minimums, a hundred and ten thousand tests, and I found these with horrors that 80% with 90% are rapid test, i.e. tests that have 30% to 35%. You don't even run molecular tests. So you lie and divide the Greeks into vaccinated and unvaccinated. And I'll prove to you right away why you're lying. You're saying you're interested in public health. Did Mr. Floris say: How will a surgeon operate a patient if he's in danger of transmitting it to him? Firstly, the vaccinated surgeon has fewer, but clearly recorded medical chances of transmitting it to his patient. Secondly, if this is what you are concerned with, then why should the vaccinated surgeons not pass a molecular test, such as the invaders, since they can even 10%, to a lesser extent, according to your assumption, pass? Then why shouldn't all the surgeons, all the doctors, all the sanitaries, regardless of whether they're vaccinated or unvaccinated, run a test at least twice a week? This stripes you - I'm sorry to tell you so raw - because it shows that you are not actually trying to protect public health. You are trying to avenge health and doctors, who have been imprisoned in passing, Madam President, I would remind you - and I have a duty to remind you - that they themselves put their heads in the dorva a year and a half ago, and without even inventing a vaccine, risked their lives, they played the crown letters to limit them to much less than the dead we have. I repeat. The Mer25-clean words - we are fanatical in favour of vaccinations, so we are all vaccinated and will be vaccinated again if necessary, but we are also fanatical against the new national division that you are trying to turn 60% of Greeks into the remaining 40%. You'll pay for it. To the people know that the true separation in Greece is not vaccinated and unvaccinated, but "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." and Greek society. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u201	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u202	Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u203	I would like to make one speech and say a few words. Indeed, listening to the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 for showing great importance to words and referring to the word here, to clarify that it is a shame, it means he knew what he said. Since he talks about bribery and money laundering, it is very heavy expressions, I ask him to see his speech again and to delete all this irresponsible hybridology from the Minutes. I do not accept, for any member of the government, all that he has said and I do not accept either of these suggestions or Members of Parliament. Do you know, Mr Gregoryides, Rule 4 of Parliament's decision on the Code of Conduct for Members? You break it every day. What are you talking about? And for the numbers you said, we haven't hired anyone to the health section, to tell you that by the end of July there were eleven thousand, ninety-six intakes in health. How many of them will become permanent or not is another matter. But by saying that we did not deal with the issue of COVID with more than eleven thousand recruitments, you simply say a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u204	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u205	Here, you have the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u206	Dear Minister, firstly, I know my obligations and my rights and it is well known in this House that I always move far beyond the limits of decency, even though the political behaviour of the ruling party urges every intelligent man to overcome this, because we are living the theatre of irrationality. Secondly, if you listened more carefully to my speech, you would know that I spoke about previous people, I did not speak about the present government. And you know why? To be clear. Because we always find out what was stolen from public wealth as soon as a government falls, as long as it rules, we don't know. As long as Mr. Chohatzopoulou ruled, we knew he was a wonderful, kind Minister. So we find out after a holiday. And finally, if I suspect that your word poses a threat to my referral with great joy I will refer myself to the lifting of my immunity to account for my words, to talk about all the newest story after the dictatorship, to see how much New Democracy stole, how much PASOK has been stolen and how many have been stolen by all those who have robbed anyway. There are, you know, courts that have ruled on thefts already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the quality of the debate, the barren, sterile confrontation that we have seen since the morning between the government and the CSR, highlights a great deficit that the country has in a very critical period, a period that comes after many years of crisis and an attempt to raise a great deal of risks, such as pandemic, where a comprehensive system of governance is needed not only at national, but also at European and global level, in order to tackle these risks. This deficit, which arises for our country, concerns both the government, its shortcomings and its purposes, but also, unfortunately, the CSCE, which, by its inability to exercise its role, fuels the inadequacies of the government. Both the Government and the Qualified Opposition about others are being swept away, while the Interior Minister himself said he observes that out of issue are all positions. Unfortunately this has also been the case by members of the Co-population and by members of the Officerial Response. They confront who is worse in dealing with issues. They will not be simple administrators from tomorrow, and then they are already discussing with each other who is the worst manager. Well, on the point you mentioned and asked, gentlemen, about the ESS, you're both right: One is worse than the other. What each other blames is, in fact, because the ESS, which was a large section of PASOK policies, has been institutionalised and developed with specific policies. Unfortunately, in addition to the crisis that also hit the ESS, in general, the social state, political choices have then come both from the New Democracy and SYRIZA, which have led to the margins for the public health system. The twelve thousand contractors you inherited to the Government of New Democracy, gentlemen of SYRIZA, from whom were they hired? By me? Why have they not been recruited permanently? The fourteen thousand that we now have and because of the need to tackle the pandemic - there has been a relative increase - which is recycling of the contractors, why are they not going through an evaluation process, to see how the system's officials have been able to join the permanent staff force for so many years? It is therefore a debate that citizens are surprised to continue and are downwards. We will try, by continuing our responsible opposition, with our criticism and control, but also with our proposals, to put the debate on other tracks, so that the country can respond to the difficult circumstances and look optimisticly at the future, so that at this time it can make use of the important resources at its disposal by the European Union, from the Recovery Fund, the ESDP, the Common Agricultural Policy in the direction of sustainable development with social justice. We submit the 'green social contract' just to have the roadmap on how the country can come out of the affiliations it faces today and create new jobs, new jobs, respect for the environment, entrepreneurship to be consistent with employment, to create a social dividend, a social dividend that the new generation today, and the next generations will make use of for an anthropocentric progress. The lobbying introduced by the bill for the first time is deemed to have to be included, as has been done in America or in Europe, in institutional processes. Yes, we are in favour of institutional armour, so that the arbitrary administration of the central state, the central authority cannot function, that we do not have more and more concentration of power in a few hands. The institutional counterweight is the only solution and institutional counterweight, as is provided for in our Constitution, is the separation of powers, of judicial and legislative powers from the executive. It is not enough, however, to review the Constitution, to establish the independent authorities. Seriously institutional counterweights are the independent authorities, when they operate and when those who manage them perform their role and do not hesitate for others, they do not find any excuses for non-serving, they do not close their eyes. Other institutional counterweight to the over-concentration of power and the arbitrary nature of the central state: but decentralisation itself and self-government itself. Here, then, is that the policies of decentralisation of self-government are coming back to the news, but not the way you have made self-government. Hair, though, monstrous. The municipal councils have been abolished, mayors have emerged to local monarchs. This is not good for themselves either, because they will be invited next time to account for actions that had to be taken collectively and for issues that had to be dealt with by social consultation at local level and, of course, by strong institutional procedures. But it is not just structures, independent authorities and self-government. There are also the procedures and procedures for consultation. It is very important both for the consultation of citizens and for the structured consultation of the social partners and bodies. Transparency and openness, transparency of procedures and decisions and transparency in everything that is to do with executive decisions and not just with power are issues that we really need to see, and lobbying needs to be integrated into these procedures of transparency and publicity, all the length and width of it, otherwise it does not mean half the step that is being taken today. Of course, accountability is very important. The final copy of the arbitrary central power is the elections. However, we do not want to reach the end of the four-year period, or whenever elections are held, to see that there are arbitrary actions against the Greek citizen. These must be prevented and prevented for the benefit of the citizen. That is why we say that all the institutions, structures and procedures which are contrary to any arbitrary nature and to all the phenomena to which most Members have referred should operate in the whole period. Finally, I would like to say a word about mobility. We are opposed, while we are positively committed to the institution that operates in rules, transparency, merit and assessment of structures and persons, to any derogation that hatches customer relations. Minister, look at the issue of the problem faced by the municipalities with some 60 municipal companies. Workers are about eight hundred working on an object that is typically not in their organic position, because the switchover process has not been completed. This is an issue, an unfinished one from the past. But today we have to deal with it. We have tabled an amendment to the matter. Of course, see what it has to do, since you are here today in charge of self-government, both in the 'Help at home' notice, which has not yet been completed, as well as in the need - many messages we have from many municipalities - to open up the process of renewing the undeclared squares, which relate to the end of real estate in the municipalities, in order to legalise squares that have not been declared for any reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u209	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion has a clear and concrete objective. Enhancing transparency and dignity in the functioning of the state and state officials, because already, before the elections as New Democracy, we had prioritised the strengthening of citizens' confidence in the state. We were committed to strengthening our country's transparency mechanism, so that we all together together, by any means available to fight corruption or even to try to limit it as much as possible. The draft law of the Ministry of Interior focuses on three main axes which serve these main objectives. Enhancing transparency in the activities of influence, such as the well known to all of us lobbying, and setting up the transparency register, increasing transparency in offering a gift to the President of the Republic, the members of the government and, in general, to state officials and increasing transparency in the mobility of civil servants. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all understand it, this bill is called upon to regulate a field that has so far remained unregulated, unlike many European and developed states. It is called upon to face major malfunctions that have often led to corruption, but also to unfair competition. The remodelling of the framework for activities of influence, to state institutions, the phenomenon of lobbying, is a basic principle in order to define a framework of rules that accurately describes the basic features and how it operates. In other words, it stipulates which persons will exert pressure and influence on state bodies in order to take the decision in question either by means of a law, a presidential decree or a ministerial decision and at the same time sets limits the way in which they exercise and operate. These persons, of course and legally, must be entered in a register created by the National Transparency Authority and accessible to citizens through gov.gr. By submitting a full electronic statement to the National Transparency Authority every year, they will present the profile of the person and the customer, as well as the entire process followed in making a decision. Exercise of influence is an internationally legitimate practice, an act of participation in the political life of the country, but it must be defined so that it can be a credible and legitimate factor in the decision-making process. This debate has been constantly reproduced for many years, but without any result. In the 2015 International Transparency Report, many interesting facts were found not only for our country, but also for other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see a reflection on the way in which the procedure should be defined. You also had the same concern in your governance, but despite your agreement on the need for initiatives for transparency and accountability, you avoided making basic arrangements for the development of a broader transparency policy, which led our country to the fifty-nineth place in 2017 and the sixty-seventh in 2018 under Cuba, Malaysia, Romania, Hungary and other countries. The Ministry of Interior incorporates a brave initiative to enhance transparency. A move that will be a basic provision for many associations, chambers, clubs, to claim their rights, which has not existed so far and has been a problem. Another key aspect of transparency that restores this draft law is the policy of giving the institutions a gift. The general ban on the acceptance of gifts and other benefits, whether to the President or President of the Republic or to the members of the Government, is now explicitly laid down. This process will be conducted solely for the sake of courtesy or courtesy, in accordance with international and European best practices and will belong to the Greek people. The third and, in my opinion, very important issue facing this bill is the question of the mobility of civil servants. One issue that has been stirring up for many decades in the public sector. An issue which has come to be solved in a clear and comprehensible way, now that we are fully aware of what has happened and what has to be changed. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the previous government with Law 4440/2016 tried to deal with any malfunctions that had been created in the mobility of civil servants. However, the law passed by SYRIZA introduced two hundred sixty-nine exceptions, but which lost the logic of their existence, but also created a framework of immunity. Mobility exists and must be in the public interest. It must, however, be defined and restricted to the framework of merit. Applicable by rules that will be functional. They will serve the real needs of the government and will not circumvent the appointment process. The goal to be achieved is to facilitate both the officials and the public bodies, something that SYRIZA did not understand, as from the implementation of the law and until it left the country's governance it had introduced a hundred and fifty-three derogations. So, with the provisions of the draft law under discussion, we are abolishing a hundred of them by facilitating the process. Something that makes sense, but from what seems to be the case, it has not been fully understood. Under the rules of the bill, civil servants may, within a reasonable period of time, choose to transfer to the institution concerned or return to its organic position. However, we must stress the importance of this. The secondment post must serve real needs to enable them to acquire the right to transfer and must not have to return to their specific organic positions. In particular, in 2022 the maximum permitted number of recruitments of contractors is limited by 10% compared to the corresponding number of approvals in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, the path to transparency and dignity is not easy. But we must admit that important steps have been taken. In this draft law, in particular, basic steps are being taken to put an end to all the suffering that the civil servants have experienced so far, moving according to the needs they need. It is time to put an end to the paradox that existed in the application of an uncontrolled mobility system, which led to certain services being overstaffed and some others being dramatically subordinated. It is time to introduce a transparency system, not only in mobility, but also in everything that affects citizens' confidence in the state, and that is something that we must do and we must make a contribution if we are to say that our country must deal with corruption. We must therefore create the foundations for a know-how that will deal with the problem effectively and away from any party intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u211	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. I shall begin with the government's amendment to suspend the deadlines for the expiry of securities and other benefits, that is to say, the non-inclusion of these securities in the data records submitted by the government. It is an amendment which, regardless of its scope, is limited, as you have already done, to municipalities - one of the country's firefighting areas - northern Evia. These beneficial arrangements - I repeat, regardless of whether they are sufficient or not - do not extend to other fire-fighting areas, such as the fire-fighting areas of Arcadia, Gortini and Megalopolis, for example. I would say that once again regions of regional Greece are staying outside. Why is that? I'm coming to the bill now. Corruption, ladies and gentlemen, is a complex phenomenon with economic, social and political dimensions, which is a brake on economic development. Economic crime, economic and tax fraud, money laundering, which are important aspects of corruption, despair the economy and, above all, undermine economic activity. In the entrepreneurial environment, corruption causes in addition to uncertainty, but also slowing down procedures and leading to additional costs. Thus, a country becomes less attractive for business initiatives and actions and therefore reduces investment and competitiveness. It is therefore impossible to fully develop the potential of the economy. Corruption is also acting dissuasively in terms of the payment and collection of taxes by taxpayers. In addition, social inequalities are being strengthened, confidence in institutions, state and democracy itself is eroding, funds are being diverted from investment and productively effective actions, the effectiveness of public spending is being undermined, the sustainability of public finances and state budgets that even lead to bankruptcy is questioned, especially when corruption is linked to complexity, with strong interests, major business groups, the banking system, the media, systemic political players. The example of our country is characteristic. Default was the result of, among other things, interdependent corruption that swept away public resources and promoted them to serve strong economic interests, without returning the minimum to the public sphere. The abuse of power for private benefit at its height. The fight against corruption cannot be restricted to a standardised set of measures. A practical response is needed with tools to prevent, detect, suppress and impose sanctions. The current bill refers to the issue of transparency and accountability to the state's institutional bodies. It could be essential. For democracy and the rule of law without transparency and accountability cannot exist. But as it is introduced, it does not fulfil the purpose of promoting transparency and accountability. The country's response to the regulation of the lobbying field and the acquisition of a Single Code of Conduct and Transparency Register in force in many European countries must be essential and should not serve communication-type purposes. The bill was not chosen as a different way of adjusting lobbying, which comprises more individuals, natural or legal persons, to exercise unfair and opaque influence rather than confined to professional lobbies, to lobbies on a fee. It does not include operators of economic power, legal companies, large business groups which actually exercise - we know - unfair influence. And the government knows it better than anyone else. In addition, the authorisation for ministerial decisions is contained in five articles, which reflect the almost exclusive competence of the Minister with its opinion in any event fully controlled National Transparency Authority to give a pretext of transparency and seriousness to the project. I would like to refer to a number of points in the current draft law that overthrow the purpose for which it has been allegedly introduced. Institutional bodies are not explicitly designated. This will create confusion. The provision for delegated provisions, as well as the definition of institutions by decision of the Minister of Interior, after the opinion of the National Transparency Authority, is not a solution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly - I repeat - it does not include those bodies which are unfairly influenced, large business groups, legal companies. Thirdly, the way in which the activity of influence must be carried out is not mentioned and not described. Finally - and this is of great importance - there is no definition of the importance of the term 'unfair influence' or pressure, so that there is confusion and misinterpretation that may lead to abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, we can conclude from all of this that the bill does not create a framework for the operation of the lobbying integrated and transparent that will be accountable to the state. The New Democracy claims that its objective is transparency in public administration. It seems, however, that you are legislating in the air, without that having any effect on practice. And one last thing. A government, like yours, cannot promote transparency. It has made the direct assignments, the arrangements for exemption from the rules in force, the funding - gifts to the channels and other strong ones, as is the case with all the bills that it has introduced into Parliament this entire period since the time it has taken over the country's governance. In other words, the government does not answer questions relating to transparency and the functioning of the institutions, which have emerged from the days and work of this entire period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Madam President. We are talking today about a bill, which has the heavy title of strengthening transparency and accountability in the public sector, in the State as a whole, in the urban state. Through its provisions lobbying is introduced into the legal framework and political negotiations between the government, political leadership and organised economic interests. This is a bill, the necessity of which all parties say that this should be introduced into the Greek legal system of lobbying. All parties agree with each other's ranks. They stand in how this institution is introduced. Others want the American system. Others want the European system. Others want anyone - anyway - system. However, since this introduction is being introduced, will there be an improvement in the situation experienced by the young worker working four hours a day for two, three months to 350 euros? Will it improve its position? Will employment conditions change? Will the new unemployed, the long-term unemployed be improved? Will the pensioner's place be improved, who sees his pension reduced and cannot be covered by pensions or medical care? Will the position of the professional who is drowned by the debts or the ferry farmer be improved? Will they see, in other words, better living conditions for all these peoples through such a process, or will they be able to better represent their interests than the lobbies who will have these accusations? Because now, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, the class struggle, strikes and struggles are outdated and we now have to solve these problems through such procedures. Of course, I understand very well, Minister, and through the mask, even though your smile does not appear, because you too know very well that the setting up of the lobbying is the multinationals, the large business groups and the interests, which are largely contrary to the needs and interests of the people. Because you know very well that with this kind of reeds capitalism is not becoming more human, nor is it beautiful. Because if that were the case, then the conditions of inequality and poverty would be in some regional economies, such as Greece or the third world, and in the developed capitalist economies, such as the United States, the European Union - the most developed - that have introduced this institution that is high on the list of transparency and accountability, there would be no such problem. Unfortunately, however, poverty and developed economies are suffering, largely populous strata. There is a report in the Sunday press that, despite the pandemic, world wealth has risen, but also the inequalities, which in essence the property of 1,1% of the richest of this world is equal to 55% of the world's total wealth, while, on the contrary, 55% of the world's poorest populaces, who live with less than 10,000 dollars - so many who live with less than 10,000 dollars, 55% of the world's population - have property that only reaches 13,7 of the world's wealth. And these inequalities are getting more and more acute, Minister, because it is precisely the result of the capitalist growth that accumulates wealth in less and less hands. And such accumulation is accelerated precisely because of the development of the new technology, which makes work even more productive, increases productivity and thus the wealth produced and the accumulation in less hands. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that with what you are promoting, you are taking just one more step, you are taking a further step in the symphony between the major economic interests and their political staff, such a symphony that will shape conditions of greater interactivity and greater corruption. So, then, the effort you are making to look at the situation will not work, because it will be crushed by the reality experienced by our own people, the wide folk. And that is why the organisation of the people's struggle, the class struggles must be made even stronger, embrace more and more strata, focusing not only on whatever management is effective but on the whole - the capitalist system - which shapes the terms and conditions for broadening social inequalities, so that they can organise their struggle to overthrow power and so that they can organise the economy on the basis of the popular needs rather than capitalist gain. Because we are currently discussing the issues of accuracy and enormous increases these days. But this debate remains on a superficial level, because it does not at the heart of the reflection on how to organise the economy that the capitalist system is to ensure capitalist profit. Such a way of organising the economy, Minister, you know very well that it leads to the destruction of production capacities, precisely because the operator - an investor does not have an interest in investing in these sectors because it does not ensure maximum profit, resulting in our country - and this model is served by you and the previous governments, what there is a specific one - to destroy a number of such capacity and to increase imports in terms of intermediate goods, as well as ultimately. And these import increases - and much more for goods related to meeting the people's nutritional needs - have led to this result, because the prices of international goods are determined by competition between multinationals, are determined by the conditions of international trade and by increased transport costs. And to make it simpler and to show the essence of this JRC we say, it is the issues relating to electricity. Wholesale prices have increased by 150%. What's that for? We say this clearly: it is because of the European Union's policy to liberalise the energy market and the green transition, because it is precisely because the two main factors which have depleted wholesale prices have been the increase in carbon dioxide prices and - secondly - the increase in international gas prices. So when the electricity demand in Greece is based on the imported natural fuel, natural gas and about 10% is covered by imports of electricity, you understand that the degree of dependence from abroad and international prices is increasing. That's why the price of electricity goes upside down. And that is the result of the policy of liberation. Because Greece could support electricity generation in domestic energy sources, which could ensure much cheaper electricity and, of course, also export, not import. Nevertheless, in the name of safeguarding profit for both PPC and the predators of green energy investing in wind power and PVC, we have this result. For that very reason and whatever measures are being taken now, they are aspirin measures and they are not going to deal with the problem. We are clearly saying that we will not accept a reasonable increase for the poorest populaces in terms of heating oil or social invoices, because we will have nothing but a redistribution of poverty between more populace. We are saying that at the moment, VAT and the Special Consumption Tax on electricity, oil, but also in a number of species which are necessary to meet the people's nutritional needs as a means of fighting against a more comprehensive policy of conflict with the interests of capital that on the one hand makes workers increasingly cheaper and more consumable on the other hand, and on the other hand, it also consumes this very little available income. In my time - and I will take a few minutes from my denology - I would like to refer to two amendments. One is the Ministry of Health. The government insists on the unacceptable and criminal logic of individual responsibility for the protection of the pandemic. It is a logic which does not confront the new pandemic wave, the fourth pandemic wave, which is fading in our country and which is actually testing the public health system. And the government, instead of going ahead with the immunisation of the public health system, goes on to retaliation measures, suspension measures which despair the already incomplete health personnel in public health systems, public hospitals. The examples are typical. Already the clinical ICUs in Patras, both in terms of COVID and other diseases are 100% in full through measures to suspend operation. This will essentially lead the ICU of the University Hospital to be deprived of the services of fifteen qualified nurses, because it is not any nurse who is an ICU and from that of St. Andreas ten nurses, so that St. Andrew's ICU operates under the security limits with these ten nurses for the remaining six beds it has for the COVID incidents, intensifying working conditions. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that you are not so concerned with the need for workers to be vaccinated and shielded, but on the basis of such measures, by implementing the design through the movements of health workers, who move health workers from Patras to meet the needs of the Tower Hospital - a hundred kilometres away from the road - carmaniola - because through this process you can proceed to shrink hospitals and clinics, the mergers of clinics, but also of nursing establishments and, above all, the even greater ties and symptom of the public to the private sector through PPP programmes. From this point of view, the JRC is clean. We are in favour of universal vaccination. But we stress that vaccination alone is not enough, but at the same time we also need measures to shield the public health system with new ICUs, with the recruitment of permanent medical and nursing personnel, with the order of the private health sector, but above all with the upgrading of primary health care. Why does it mean to all those who have fear of the vaccine, for example? It is not enough for the television proclamations or the various elements. It means personalized monitoring of everyone, who can only be done through primary health care and overcoming problems. For the other amendment, which relates to the suspension of the deadlines for payment of securities, we consider that this measure is moving in a positive direction. Of course, the time limit for the deadline is small, but primarily it serves large businesses. Very few are professionals, self-employed, small businesses that use such record for payments. And we would like this situation to be further complemented by measures to protect the self-employed and the professionals more effectively. Such measures as a JRC we consider it to be the immediate compensation of all unpaid disasters, direct exceptional financial support to the affected self-employed without conditions and conditions to meet the basic survival needs, exemption from taxes for at least the next two years, abolition of EMI and VAT, a cheaper fee for the benefit of the residents and professionals of all the affected regions and not only Evia, exemption from all tax-payers from payment of individual insurance contributions for at least one year and a subsidy from the State, exemption from all municipal charges, a cheaper fee for light, water, telephone for the self-employed, but also for all public sectors, suspension of all tax, banks, insurance funds, energy providers for at least two years, and no arrangement from them that had been made before the destructive fires, suspension of all types of aid for the purpose of recovering short-hauled business losses, such as the reduction of all risk-disbursed business-sed business losses, including the reduction of all claims and unpaid business losses, including the reduction of all claims for which have been carried out of the totalstimatestimated, as well-sed business-strupt-st-sed business-s-sed business-s-s-st-s-st-s-s-s-s-s-st-st-s-s-s-s-s-st-st-st-st-st-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s These would really be measures that would relieve both the self-employed and the professionals, but also the popular strata of the devastated areas in general. And, on this occasion, this amendment has two articles: one concerns the registers for the affected areas and the other concerns the support for the essence of Internet-based companies, Internet news companies. In other words, they are two completely irrelevant topics among themselves, which would have the chance to stand in a positive way, but on the other hand, on the subject of strengthening the Internet business, as we have done with the businesses on television, but also in newspapers, we will be voting against. We are opposed to this arrangement. We cannot therefore be very specific about the regulations that exist in this particular amendment, and that is what is being done at the same time, Minister. In this respect, therefore, the JRC will vote on the specific'residents' amendment for the reasons I have explained above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u215	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now he has the floor, Mr. Kavadas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in many respects, it has been pointed out how important this institutional intervention of the Government is to increase transparency and accountability at both national and European level. Lobbying, i.e. exerting pressure or influence on the achievement of specific objectives, should be governed by full transparency rules. There is a deficit here in this area and, indeed, at European level, not only at national level. There is a report by International Transparency nine years ago, in 2012, which points out that the influence and activity of lobbies are characterised by secrecy and opacity. These two elements pose a potential risk to political and economic stability and to the development of conditions that favour the development of corruption. There are given that there are lobbies who, in particular, each time they try to influence either the legislation or the procurement or the external relations of a state. They are in contact with institutional actors and bodies, which reinforces the need to create transparency and control rules. This attempts to do the bill we are discussing today at our National Representation. A new legislative and institutional framework is being established that regulates the rules of communication of state institutions with representatives of interests. For the first time in Greece an institutional and regulatory framework for such activities is established. The aim is transparency and public control. For the first time the terms of the game are precisely defined. Institutions that may come into contact with representatives of specific objectives shall be the bodies carrying out legislative or executive functions. These bodies will be identified by a decision of the Minister of Interior and at the recommendation of the Commander of the National Transparency Authority. Representatives of pressured or influenced interests shall be understood as natural or legal persons who are engaged in an activity of influence by means of communication with institutional bodies, on a fee, on behalf of and for the benefit of the client entrusted with the specific work. From that point on, rules and insurance are being created. I am referring to the creation of a Transparency Register to which those who practice these lobbying activities must be registered. This register will be kept by the National Transparency Authority and will be accessible to all citizens. The registration shall include an obligation to submit the data of a natural legal person, the areas of interest in which an activity is carried out and influence, the issue of a certificate and a registration number. Lobbies are obliged in any form of communication with institutional bodies to indicate their status as representatives of interest, as well as the identity of their client for whom they are working. Each year they are required to submit an electronic statement to the National Transparency Authority, which will disclose all their activities and every year the National Transparency Authority will compile a report with statistics on the functioning of the registry and the registration of the relevant information. In the context of transparency, there is also a new institutional framework for recording, publicity, safeguarding, managing and exploiting the gifts offered to the President of the Republic and to the members of the government, in accordance with international and European best practices. Thus, only gifts that come out of the customs rules will be accepted. It is also foreseen that gifts exceeding the value of the EUR 100 are owned by the public, are recorded, kept and may be exposed to museums and educational and public-private institutions. I would like to focus on the regulations on public human resources. Very positive is the provision whereby civil servants and legal persons governed by public law may receive an equal pay for a fixed and undetermined employment relationship, by making them treated equally with permanent persons. It is also positive that in the event of death, appointed before his permanent appointment, he may be appointed to the public or to the wider public sector of a member of his family. It is also foreseen that officials who, in the context of mobility, have requested and been seconded to a position which serves real needs may, if they so wish, remain definitively in this position. There is even a certain period of time for the official to choose to serve. This is how two things are achieved: And the employee is not under constant threat of returning to his old position, but also the public is making use of the workers in places where they are really useful. Finally, in the direction of rationalisation, the provision of a ceiling for recruitment of temporary staff is being put in place. Specifically for 2022 the maximum permitted number of contract recruitments shall be limited by 10% compared to the corresponding number of approvals in 2020. In fact, from now on, the maximum permitted number of recruitments of temporary staff will be approved in advance by means of specific procedures concerning specific needs. This is a provision that also serves transparency and functionality in the public sector. In addition, temporary staff will be for real emergencies, while in the case of fixed and permanent staff they will be made wherever necessary and in accordance with the laws in force, regular staff recruitment. Ladies and gentlemen, transparency and public control are a universal objective and are linked to the rule of law. The citizens must be fundamentally inspired by the sense of legitimacy, which is not just about order and security. It also relates to the accountability of legislative and executive power, it relates to the power of government control, it relates to the democratic and transparent functioning of the public. The bill we are debating today makes an important contribution in this direction, and I think it should be a field of consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Government brings to the House another draft law, as usual without any real meaning, but with a good title, reminding us of the covid - free islands that it certainly did not know that it was not, opening them up to tourism, with the well-known aftermath. If, however, the problems could be solved by tabling bills, the fires would have been erased by the launching of the PPP on 5 August, which, of course, did not happen. Of course, the government's populism, based on its methods, does not help in the issues of fires, nor in the rise of PPC and the rise in food prices. Nor does manipulation by the arranged media, which are paid richly for their services, since in these cases citizens see directly the results of the mismanagement of the government. For example, if we accept that the average nominal reduction in wages and pensions from the Memorandums was of the order of 30%, EUR 1 000 was made out of EUR 700, so that the public saw this clearly in their pockets, noting that before history the workers did not agree with the nominal reduction in their wages. Now, of course, no nominal wages and pensions will be reduced, but real wages, through inflation, where, for basic goods, at 30%, the EUR seven hundred will become four hundred, ninety euros. Indeed, workers will remain quiet and will not ask for increases, so that inflation will not last, exactly as Mr Stournaras actually concluded in his recent statement, assuming, obviously, that the workers are finally bend over their heads? It'll show. Furthermore, the government will not be able to help much longer the practice of the false documents of the bills, as recently on migration titled "Reform of deportation and return procedures for citizens of third countries" and so on. This title clearly serves the party propaganda of New Democracy, since it has nothing to do with the content that consolidates the entry of illegal immigrants. In fact, it disorientates citizens, giving them the impression that deportations will be made and that NGOs will be recorded, which, of course, is not the case. By the way, it is truly impossible for us to understand why the Left supports illegal immigration because it is at the expense of domestic workers' wages, benefiting only domestic and foreign elites. Besides, there are deliberately multicultural, easily controlled societies at the expense of the elites, so they are again at the expense of the workers. We would sincerely be interested in an answer to this question, with the view that if the West really wanted to help these unfortunate people, it would not wage wars in their own countries and it would support their economies and stop robbing them. Greece has fought no war anywhere. Now, with this small bill, certain arrangements are under way for the lobbying that gives it the title, some pretexts for gifts, and finally the big issue from the beginning of the memoranda, the issue of redundancies for civil servants, to which the troika has returned. In essence, now, lobbying is not something new, but it is simply the adoption of foreign legislation, an institution that exists in the United States for many years, but also in several countries of Europe, as well as in the European Parliament. We would remind the House here that the names of the Members of the European Parliament, Chrysanos and Zorgokis, SYRIZA and New Democracy, if I am not mistaken, were in the report of the International Transparency entitled 'Black work in Brussels, parallel activities and concerns on ethical issues', as we will present in the Minutes, with Mr Chrysanos in the 'top 30' of MEPs with the largest incomes from external sources. As has been said, between 18 and 41 million euros have been won by MEPs from parallel jobs, from 2014 onwards, and the report states that more than 100,000 euros have been earned each year in their wages. Here we have a recent article of "LobbyControl" with the sums they will give for lobbying by the major technological companies, having 97 million budgets, budgets. We see here that GOOGLE will give 5,750,000 euros, FACEBOOK 5,500,000 euros, MICROSOT 5,350,000 euros and so on. I'll testify later in the Minutes all at once. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I shall also take my amendment. Continuing, really, is there something new about lobbying in Greece as far as its essence is concerned? No, of course, since the domestic oligarchy, often state-owned, even intervenes in the choice of ministers, as was recently written on a serious website. It's just, it's not official. Finally, as Greek President Velopoulos rightly said, the important difference with the United States is that, if you affect the MP, even the entire House, it is not enough to pass a law. You have to influence the Senate, after the president, and, finally, the Supreme Court. It is therefore difficult for private interests to pass laws or if they attempt, they need too much money. In any case, the process in the United States is slow and does not cover very difficult issues. In Greece, however, if one controls the Prime Minister, he does everything because the Prime Minister controls his Members completely, since he chooses who will be candidates, Parliament, when he has more than a hundred and fifty seats, the President of the Republic, the so-called independent authorities, the S.H.E. And so on. It is very simple, but also very scary, if it proves to be a parliamentary monarchy with the literality of the word. As regards, now, Part II relating to gifts, we should not mention, since we are in the country with the unsolved Lagard list, with the 'SIEMENS' scandals, with the national manufacturers who take all the projects, with the NOVARTIS scandal that stayed in the building, without looking for the money, with bank loans in the New Democracy of around EUR 340 million, in PASOK as well and so on. The most interesting aspect of politics and budgets is Part III, which refers to public mobility, while strangely there is no reference from the General Accounting Office of the State. The issue of the number of civil servants is constantly mentioned in the latest European Union evaluations, where in the eighth he writes that the number of civil servants reached sixty-one thousand in 2020, from five hundred ninety-eight thousand, in 2014, through the contractor's artifact. In the tenth, and evaluation, it says that contractors should be reduced from 2022, and, finally, with the current Article 25, a 10% reduction of civil servants has been introduced since 2022. In conclusion, we repeat that Greece is walking from evil to worse, and soon the European Union's tolerance period for deficits is ending, because of the pandemic, as is the time of low borrowing rates with the support of the European Central Bank. In this context, if Greece does not finally produce wealth and does not stop uncontrolled lending, it will lead to the cliff with the complete change of ownership of the regime, with further loss of national sovereignty, in exchange for its atrocious debts and many others. Honestly, we are deeply saddened by the fate of our rich country, simply because of the mismanagement of its governments. We hope that they will understand it once and for all, by choosing policies that can ensure their well-being, national pride and dignity. The last one is, perhaps, the most important one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Chryssomalis has the floor now from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following the debate throughout the House all day and looking at the minutes of the committee, and I am trying to understand exactly what opposition is saying to us. The truth is we have to tell her. Lobbying has acquired a basically negative time for society as a whole. But, undeniably, which results from too many researches, it is that if applied in an ethical, integer and transparent way, it is transformed into a positive tool for serving the wider public interest. It says in a report by the European Commission, the OECD also strengthens it, that the governments that have legislated properly for lobbying have benefited from specialised information provided by lobbyists in decision-making. So finally, the government has decided to bring in a draft law on something that has so far not been regulated. I expect to hear the arguments of counterpopulation. First of all, we have to agree that there must be legislation, that there must be a framework for lobbying. So I'm saying it's going to be voted on in the first place. We're unlucky. He says, no, they won't vote at first. Why? Because, he says, what has come as a draft law is a genome. Oh, well, we say, gonatogram and especially Voridis, heavy charge, difficult, they'll document it. What arguments show that it is a gonatogram? One, two, three, four, five, reformation, accuracy, ball on the platform normally! Really talk about the bill! You ask: 'Where does the bill need to be improved?' And the answer is: "Here, the tweet that Cyranakis has made." In fact, ladies and gentlemen, will we be serious about this in Parliament's Chamber? Are we going to deal with improving things and procedures that have been in other countries for years and do not exist here? You're not entitled, says SYRIZA, to talk to the New Democracy about transparency. No, SYRIZA is entitled to talk about transparency, where Mr. Papapas did his work and the "magazies", as he pointed out, where your party newspaper is a shareholder in an offshore company and yet you have not told us what, but we are not entitled to talk and legislate on transparency! Let's get something straight. This bill comes and regulates a matter that has been unregulated for years. As you have seen, even the Transparency Authority said that when in the previous New Democracy government with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras we were in 2012 in the index "94", we handed over the index to "58" and to you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the index in 2018 was "67". This, of course, has been justified by your rapporteur. He said that this indicator of transparency has no objectivity, it's a sense, a Feeling. Like the flirt, that's what I mean, if we all understood well. Let's get serious at last. It is a bill which actually regulates lobbying in the country and at the same time abolishes - and this is also about transparency and credibility in the public sector - many of the hundred and fifty-three derogations that you voted on in terms of mobility. The truth here, Minister, is - and there could be a criticism - that it is a good start, because I think that the basis for viewing the whole of mobility is to start to "build" each organisation's organograms. You know that many organisations are not being mobilised if they are under 65%. However, these organograms have been made for years, many years back, with other approaches - if you like - and with other bases that now state digitisation, new technologies, allow us to see them again. This might be a complete job to do, and I think the Minister - and the Ministry - will soon see this job and do it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a bill which could easily vote for the whole House. I think the Minister could also be receptively able to bring improvements to them. Under no circumstances would the debate evolve to talk about reshaping and to be the question of the whole of Antipoliticism - especially SYRIZA and his rapporteur - that Mr Vorides or Mr Ploris may be in the same government as Mr Stylianides and others. In closing, I'll give an answer to that. And he will tell you a man who as much as he remembers himself - of course I am young at age - is always a New Democracy. Eventually, all of these can be coexistent, because these very principles, on which the New Democracy Party was founded by its founder, namely the principles of liberalism, the free economy in terms of the first approach of the'small' state, the authorities in national and immigration issues are principles that now have a large majority and social base and these authorities have embraced executives who may not once have embraced them. So, in that sense, everyone is welcome. Indeed, some of the opposition, if they start to see their delusion, as the Greek society saw and felt the delusion of the Left regarding its ideas, are also welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u221	Me too, Mr. Comrade. The reason for SYRIZA now is Mrs Pulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is caught in a vicious cycle of failures, from which it cannot escape. The Prime Minister's mistakes are succeeding one another, social discontent is fading, and government panic can no longer hide. A characteristic demonstration is the sirial of the rival remodeling that continued for ten days and was completed yesterday, and we hope that there will be no further incidents, because obviously the Prime Minister who insists on the shallow communication management of the major problems is in the faces and not the structures and design. There is no problem with the seven ministries, the fifteen agencies which are responsible for preventing and extinguishing fires, a wave of bureaucracy that undermines operational efficiency. Instead of limiting bureaucracy and organising the responsibilities of the new Ministry of Civil Protection, by exploiting the pyramid of the administration by the ministries in the regions and municipalities, it chooses to place persons without the corresponding mechanism, of course, solely accountable to it. And after unsuccessfully trying to break up, break up and expose SYRIZA with the announcement of a former Minister, he finally sought to transfer it from the European market, Mr Stylianides, but neglecting or ignoring completely possible constitutional obstacles. The choice of Christos Stylianides, but also of Stavros Benos, a non-institutional person, highlights how Mr Mitsotakis governs. Meanwhile, health and economic problems accumulate. On the forefront of the pandemic, the vaccinations remain in place at 55%, with the country lying in Europe's evacuations. Vaccine centres are starting to close, since fewer and fewer people are dating now, with a more recent example of the mega vaccine of Patras, while the Fake cases of vaccinations, such as in Karditsa and elsewhere, prove the failure of the vaccination campaign and the management of the pandemic. The government is unable to convince citizens to be vaccinated again is investing in division: vaccinated against invaders. But also on the front of the economy, the lack of the government is anguishly filled with the citizens. The tsunami of electricity, fuel, bread and other forms of first need threatens to plunge households financially. Greece has the electricity outrage on the European wholesale market and consumers are asked to pay up-to-date bills so that the government can give PPC's blue Golden Boys four-fold wages. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now move on to the bill that again finds us viewers in the same work. The government has an extremely critical issue, an issue that touches the essence of our democracy and is about how this democracy works in practice and not just in theory. This is precisely what is the famous lobbying, that is, the organised exercise of influence on the bodies responsible for decision-making on public policy. So what is the government doing to regulate this critical field? Is it preparing an integrated legislation with exhaustive consultation, by working on best practices in other countries? Of course not! It approaches it with the best-known prominence, bringing to the vote a piece of legislation of just thirteen articles, a lack of legislation, together with other unreasonable provisions. And what does Minister Voridis tell us? It tells us that we better have a rough, limited and perforated lobbying legislation than we have at all. It tells us that we need to be happy with this legislative sketch, whose shortcomings are more than predictions. But let's look at them in detail. First of all, there are no arrangements covering covered or black lobbying cases. For example, it does not include legal companies active in the exercise of influence, but avoid being registered in the relevant European register, with the pretext of confidentiality between the lawyer and the client. Good morning, I mean, we have the first hole in the law. But there's more to it. There is no regulation for lobbying actors, not open to professional lobbies, but as volunteers or managers of different companies. A grey zone is created in which various people will be able to exercise lobbying without anyone being able to trace them. Furthermore, there are also critical gaps in the recording of the contacts, since there is no full record of the meetings between institutional bodies and lobbyists, nor of the elements of the participants, their name, position and business history, nor of the time nor of the subject of the meeting. Everything in the dark. The Government avoids using the practices of countries that have a promoted regulatory framework for lobbying. It does not want to see what is happening in Ireland, Germany, Canada and also in transnational organisations such as the Council of Europe, the OECD and the European Union. It prefers convenient vagueness, creative vagueness, to fish in the cloudy waters of opacity. The same framework, however, applies to the second part of the draft law on the abolition of derogations from the Single System of Mobility for Public Officials. So while, for two years now, Mr Ministers, you have made the system of the mobility of tyres with a creditory of distractions and transfers, now you are supposed to abolish these derogations, but not entirely. You do not forget your old art and you maintain a significant number of exceptions to the exceptions. These wicked inconsistencies have serious consequences for subordinated public services, culminating in local self-government that has literally depreciated from staff due to mobility and distractions. In particular, the economic services of the municipalities have been completely decimated, at the same time as the needs of staff are increasing, as more and more responsibilities go to self-government without the corresponding resources. Even for school-leaving houses, which you now entrust to the municipalities, in order to cover their payroll on the basis of the health protocols, you put your hands on their deficit budgets. However, you do not apply anything from programming for recruitment of regular staff in the medium term. Where are the six hundred intakes for 2020 and the three and a half thousand in 2021? On the contrary, you even insist on the 10% cut for contractors, while at the same time you continue to open windows for individuals, giving even the right to sign to contractors, such as Article 22 of the present in geotechnicals. Ladies and gentlemen, the winter that comes will be difficult for the Greek people. But citizens now know that as long as the Mitsotakis government remains in its place their lives will get worse. The SYRIZA Programme - Progressive Alliance to support our vulnerable fellow citizens and to alleviate inequalities can create a new perspective for their lives and for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u223	Thank you too, my colleague. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Voridis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u224	I am speaking in law, as I had already said since yesterday's committee meeting. Allow me very quickly and only on the lobbying side, because it also has some other points on the issues of derogations where we make some additions and corrections following further cooperation with the Ministries, very quickly to say what we are changing and I will hear with interest after this and the secondaryities of the colleagues and the parties after these legislators. It has been pointed out as an issue that we exclude Article 3 from the debate on the conclusion of a public contract from the lobbying activity. It is therefore rejected and the debate on the conclusion of a public contract is now also included. It has been pointed out that the sentence over two years is long and I therefore limit it to the eighteen-month sentence. This is an amendment to Article 6. It has been pointed out that the obligations of the institutions do not include the preparation of a declaration on their contact with the operators of the exercise of their influence. Includes the declaration and this statement of the entity is now submitted to the National Transparency Authority. It's in Article 5. It was noted that the restriction of the institutions not to exercise influence was only to the institution to which they are employed and should be general. Mr Kyranakis has pointed this out since the first debate. This is therefore rejected and the ban is indeed universal and general. It's Article 6(3). It has been pointed out that restrictions should be extended and that they include both the spouses or the cohabitants of the institutions. It's accepted and it's now included. It was noted that the report submitted to the transparency register should also be part of these elements. It is acceptable and will also be submitted to the Special Standing Committee on Institutions and Transparency. It is in Article 8(5). It was noted that the data to be included in the register did not include the time and way in which the activity was carried out. It shall be accepted and amended in accordance with Article 10. The result to be achieved shall also be included. The specific remark in Article 10 shall be accepted. There was an observation that the criteria for the imposition of sanctions are not laid down. An addendum to Article 12 shall be made. In order to impose penalties, seriousness, duration, frequency and type of infringement shall be taken into account as criteria. And there are three provisions supplementing the authorizing provisions in Article 13 in order to penalise the breach of the operators' obligations, as well as to clarify certain specific issues relating to the examination of petitions and complaints, as well as the procedure for the submission of petitions to the authority. And then I expect to see if there's anything else you'd like, because I think we've taken care of you. But I'll see you then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of the amendments and the legislative improvements tabled by the Minister, but also an amendment, I shall speak briefly about everything. Minister, three things state your political initiative by tabling the legislative initiatives: first of all, your personal diligence and the good will to listen to proposals put forward. Secondly, it states and highlights the result of the real opposition that has to do with the diligence of our rapporteur, Mrs Liikanoulis, but also the general political line that the Change Movement has to have opposition with scrutiny and criticism to the government, but also to submit proposals at the same time. And the third is that the deficit of consultation in the first stage - and I refer to the committees, not only before - has brought us to the need for these amendments to be made today and not to the committees where some of your proposals have been tabled and we would now ask for a further improvement. In other words, there are three things which are both negative and positive, and we really need to look at them in other legislations. This can't go on. So I say to you the simple thing: Parliament's responsible committee on transparency and the functioning of institutions, the Committee on Institutions and Transparency - you have also accepted a proposal for this - did not participate in the parliamentary procedure, although we as a Change Movement have proposed that the Special Committees, bills on which they are concerned, should be drawn up together with the Standing Committees. I now come to the Health Ministry's amendment under a general number 1062 and a special 107. It was tabled, Madam President, last night, at 22.25. It's about the vaccinations. I would like to remind you that the main vaccination plan was first introduced in the Greek Parliament half an hour after the normal end of a meeting concerning a bill that was not relevant to the Ministry of Health. It was nineteen articles. It has not been discussed and the result is irrelevant from this procedure by which Parliament approved the vaccination plan. It was not the result of consultation, and it took away the dynamic that they did not manage to give the many money that was made available to show the good of vaccination. It is therefore not only a formal and regular issue, but also a question of substance and politics. Here, then, is an amendment on vaccination-related issues, six articles. And what does the Greek Parliament, the Rules of Procedure, the Bureau and the majority, say, which refuse to accept our proposal? They say: you will, gentlemen, and you will vote on these six articles as one. We have been placed many times and we have called for the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure do not prohibit it. However, the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which has been given by the current Bureau, says that the articles must be voted on together. In other words, the bill on lobbying, which has fifteen articles, can only be voted on at first reading. Articles 1 - 1 need not be voted on. That's what majority decisions tell us. We therefore call for the amendment to be made to clarify that articles relating to other articles, as stated explicitly in a specific article, must be voted on together with the article on which they are concerned when the draft law is the same. In the case of different articles of other legislation - this is the clarification - they must be voted on separately. We can't afford to get all this packed up. Here is a first article that is problematic. Why is the first article problematic? The other is less, most of all we agree. I am referring to the first article that puts the financial penalties. I'll tell you the same thing so I don't have to. The wheelchair stops the one who drives drunk. It counts him and he's on the peak drunk. Takes off the block, Minister, cuts off a huge fine, gives him the keys, gets in the car, the drunk gets in and goes away. That is the logic of the amendment on fines of EUR 200,000. It does not say that the contract is interrupted by a nursing home, only says ‘we will fine it EUR 10,000’. Really? Is this the state's care for the issue of vaccinations, a fine of EUR 10,000 and an abundance? We have to look at these cases in a slightly different way and not just by imposing the fine, and indeed superfluous, with no effect. Of course, he says, he's interrupted by EOPY. That's another matter. I would say, therefore, that for all contracts with either a block or any legal relationship between medical staff and legal persons governed by private law or public law, such as nursing homes, for example, or other structures or private ones, the suspension of the contract is the penalty and the non-inclusion for a considerable period. As far as the civil servant is concerned, his employment relationship is not being interrupted, according to your regulations. For the private, make a different concept, interrupt the contract. A nursing home will continue to provide services, it will pay a fine of EUR 10,000 - a theoretical one - and it will not be possible to prescribe for others, not for the elderly. This provision is incomplete, not to help promote vaccination, but only to impose fines, which are not linked to the promotion of vaccination, because otherwise it would be acceptable. In this sense, and because we have been placed on several occasions and have tabled a written proposal to Mr Tassoula and a written objection to the fact that the articles are not in place separately - the Services and the Bureau know so - in the amendments which are many articles and where there is a objection to one, we, in order not to blame the positive articles - have also been made with an article of yours before - are not voting against, but are not taking part in the vote. And I want to clarify our political position on this matter. We have cleared things up in the past time on the issue of vaccination. It is a social obligation towards ourselves, to our family, to our fellow people, to society, to move everyone's vaccinations forward, and that does not change. Except that things are not right because we see the vaccination programme does not work so well that we must and all those who are talking about putting issues different from the real ones. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u228	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u229	Minister, wait a minute if you'll excuse me. Mr. Heta, do you have a question? Just for a question, please, we're not posting now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u230	Wait a minute. I want to place myself on the law school...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u231	Mr Colleague, listen to me for a moment, please very much. Mr. Minister has brought state-of-the-art state-of-the-art. Ask him questions and in your dentistry you will be placed. I would ask you very much to comply with the Rules of Procedure. The list should continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u232	Madam President, I would like to place myself in the legislative and amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u233	Do your question, however, not placement, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u234	No, it's not a question. I would like to put my name on the legislative and the amendments, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u235	You will ask a question, and when you are secondary, you will place on all of what you are saying right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u236	What happened earlier, what was it? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u237	It's bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u238	Did it happen badly? What can we do? After we started it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u239	I didn't want to interrupt so there wouldn't be any trouble again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u240	I'd be done now, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Colleague, Mr. Kegeroglu...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u242	I respect all my troubles and mine. We've been here for 15 hours. I'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u244	No, I beg you to be equivalent. Six minutes he spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u245	Please. Don't shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u246	I'm right, that's why I'm shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u247	Mr Kegeroglu is a parliamentary representative right now and you can only say it in your dentistry. I would ask you very much to keep the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u248	While I'm not, that's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u249	You're not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u250	Are we serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u251	You're not. You are a rapporteur, Mr Colleague. Mr. Villards is your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u252	Madam President, I would have said what I wanted now. He spoke seven minutes and did well, we have freedom of speech. For God's sake. Obviously, I'll tell you later, but it's not equal to dealing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Comrade, listen to me. I really don't understand why you're making this fuss. I'm telling you, honestly. Please listen to me, let's not create impressions. Mr Kegeroglu is a parliamentary representative. That's how it was defined by the Change Movement. You're the rapporteur. Mr Villardos, who is your parliamentary representative, is not currently in the Chamber. Ask a question if you would like as rapporteur to the Minister and then to your dentistry you can speak as much as you want and place yourself on everything you have said before. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u254	Just for a minute, Madam President. Mr. Kegeroglu, I've explained it to the committee. I'm a deeply parliamentary. I believe that the parliamentary procedure is the koruna of the procedure, and I think it is the major thing for Members to hear. I listen to Members every time with very much attention. The procedure was done in committee. The legislators I have tabled have been prejudicial to the committee. I said exactly what I'm going to testify for. It was therefore clear to what extent the interventions I wanted to take further, having listened to Parliament and, more specifically, to one issue - which is new, which is at the forefront, is being regulated for the first time, and for me it was very important to see and to what direction the criticism of the parties would move. It was important, since we're discussing something very new. Now, for institutions. As you know, the Committee on Institutions does not have legislation. The Committee on Institutions and Transparency in Parliament has other tasks, it is a special committee. They are accurately described. The role of the Committee on Institutions in relation to the activities of influence is therefore now established first by this legislation. It will have a role from now on, precisely because it is going to receive these reports, which will be disclosed by the actors of influence. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] However, the political question remains for the opposition parties. These are point corrections, interventions, supplements to the legislative framework. Those who worked and were rejected what are they going to do now? That is why I have from the outset made my positions in committee the great distinction between positions in principle and direction and positions in the articles. This is what now brings Opposition into a difficult position and especially those who rushed to vote against the bill at first. I now expect to hear their overall position after - I say again - from these point of view interventions that have emerged from our parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u255	Well, thank you, Minister. Mrs Brysidou has the floor now from New Democracy, followed by Mrs Gara by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law we are debating consists of a number of articles, which the majority of them ensures transparency. Transparency is a requirement for Greek society and at times governments have passed laws to ensure transparency. I believe, however, that for the first time, it has entered a bill in such a drastic way and on the most important issues. In other words, it raises issues which, in fact, can guarantee transparency. And what are these? First of all, it is the issue of representatives of the citizens' interests. I think we all know that every citizen, every body, a municipality, a club meets problems in its daily lives, which need to be mentioned in the legislative power to make changes, make changes, remove deadlocks so that it can resolve issues and problems that each of them has to deal with. Also, there are lawyers, there are engineers next to such problems and deadlocks who know how to resolve these issues and how some laws can help in this direction. So that makes sense, is normal and what happens in a society that wants to move forward, develop and overcome difficulties and problems. But this process which seems reasonable and simple has too many dangers, many traps, when it is done without a framework, without rules, and of course, it may not only be possible to transfer problems to solve, but also to serve interests not in the interests of society as a whole, but in particular, groups or specific citizens. So this category and all these traps ensures the bill to be voted on by making certain rules. I have heard proposals for additional forecasts accepted by the Minister. In my opinion, however, at first, as it was set out, it was quite satisfactory, in order to finally be able in this area to create security, because there is a register where the representatives of interests must be declared, and this is very important, also from where they come from and what issue they will discuss with the institutions, with the Ministry, with anyone handling their issue and at the end of the year what they have done. Already everything is well known to the citizens, it is already well known in every direction and that it is not satisfactory and correct. At the same time, the institutional bodies know the rules, they know who they should accept and who they should not accept, because they are not written in the register. And all this is not done uncontrollably, it is supervised by the Independent Transparency Authority, which, in addition to controlling the whole process, has the possibility to impose fines of EUR 5 000 to EUR 20,000 and if irregularities are repeated, from EUR 20,000 to EUR 40,000 and the right to exclude representatives from the register who do not comply with the rules and conditions. I think that through this process there are genuinely foundations and it can be done this cooperation that needs to be done, but it must also be ensured that the citizen feels safe too, that there are rules and that if he is interested in tabling his issues, there is a way that he is well-known and can do so. A second chapter, which is also important in the area of transparency, is the policy of gifts. In the interests of courtesy and courtesy, gifts are used to be exchanged, in particular, from representatives of States or from visits from various bodies to institutional bodies. However, these gifts given for courtesy at times may have other feasibility and may affect decisions for their own benefit. This is where the rules come in. I think that there is no clearer procedure than saying that apart from small gifts, all the rest is recorded in an electronic register and belong to the institution and not to the person, which, when it ceases to be in the place they are, will go to the Greek public. And I think that in this process, too, there have also been various considerations which, in particular, concern and insecurity for the citizens. Finally, I would like to refer to the procedure of the mobility system. It is a very important process, which has ensured officials at positions that needed it. However, in time and depending on the issues raised, we had derogations and reached the two hundred and sixty-nine derogations, where they could go beyond the mobility law to posted employees. This has reached a very large number, and if we want the law and the procedure to be able to work, we should limit someone who has ended up in time and some should be abolished. Thus, fifty - nine derogations are abolished and those that manage services such as EKA are maintained, the Independent Public Income Authority that requires staff. But there is also another possibility of removing distractions. If the officials themselves are useful, they may apply for a transfer, remain in the post where they are seconded and remain vacant and their organic position is occupied and cannot be taken by another official in the process of mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, public administration and civil servants are the instrument, which serves the citizen in his everyday life. This is where the state is run, all the procedures for developing a place are passed to produce the works. That is why the Ministry - as it has done - must be covered, in every detail, so that the right person can be in the right position, that the civil servants are happy because they meet their qualifications and the work they provide, but on the other hand that the services are organised so that they can best provide their services to the state and the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u257	We now continue with Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Maravegias and Mr Giannoulis. Let's see a little of the rapporteurs if there's a mood for a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u258	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u259	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u260	It is self-evident, Mr President. The Minister is waiting for our second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u261	The Minister can wait a long time, what do you want to do? Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Final incompetence, social indifference, propaganda and opacity are the main features of the current New Democracy Government. With a government on the way to failure and a Greek Prime Minister, uncomfortable and weak - from the recent developments - the economic interests of young people and the barons within their party, to lead the country to failure and the Greek society to crush, unfortunately, between the enthusiasms of the pandemic, the economic crisis and, above all, the accuracy, with young people and young people - even the excellent students - to stay out of Greek universities, the services constantly shrinking, but at the same time the Golden Boys of the New Democracy do gold jobs. However, you are bringing in, Minister, today a bill that theoretically strengthens transparency and accountability and, at the same time, regulates mobility issues for civil servants. Two unrelated issues, however, in a bill on the standards of the perfect legislative practice of the New Democracy. On the occasion of this you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to comment on the amendment tabled today and on the inclusion of electronic media in the regulation to cover the costs of an employer contribution to the EDPS. Because of the ex ante ability, it seems that in the previous regulation the government forgot to incorporate electronic media and comes again today with a bending device to integrate electronics. However, we should remind the Greek society that this regulation in no way forms part of an overall necessary media support policy, with criteria and with transparency. Since, of course, you have abolished the EUR 16 million support programmes for regional and central printed media, you have proposed the Petsa lists, without any transparency, without accountability, without any criteria and only with the aim of reliance on and the acquisition of SMEs by the Government. Also, Minister, you must also consult with your relevant colleagues and pay attention to the provision which also exists in the relevant joint ministerial decision on this regulation, because the provisions that are enacted there are likely to exclude too many central pan-Hellenic newspapers from the regulation on the EDPS. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two years we have been living the reconstructing of the right-wing state with the well-known practices of the past. By way of derogation from the secondments and transfers of officials, as well as the role of the AACC in constantly deviating from the Government, the rule of law, the sovereignty, transparency and transparency are trampled daily with the responsibility and choice of the Government of New Democracy itself. At the same time, however, public services are being dismantled and closed, especially in the region - a typical example of my law, the Evros Prefecture - by constantly reducing the quality of life and the service of citizens, by undermining any prospect of development, which is only communitically evangelized by the officials of the New Democracy. Schools lack school cleaners, organograms of services are ignored and not served, municipalities remain subordinated, hospitals and health centers are also closed down while regional medical facilities are closed. In my area at least, although the SYRIZA government had ensured that each departure to the public service was carried out, in order to halt the bleeding from public services. Instead of serious concern for these problems and for staff support, the current government is content with fragmentary and photographic provisions on mobility, such as the transfer of posted workers within 10 days or the right to sign and the contracted technicians and not the officials. And we wonder: does the government not have confidence in public administration and should serious decisions be signed by posters? However, these provisions also lack established criteria that will ensure the objective of the procedure and do not open up any other type of windows. This whole period of time, of course, we are observing the New Democracy preference for recruitment through temporary contracts by undermining permanent employment relationships, effectively undermining the staffing and upgraded functioning of the public sector, a prerequisite for the healthy functioning of the private sector as well. Even with this practice, however, we still have a massive blue gold boys with thick wages, while the five thousand sixty-sixty-six-six-Hour-Hour plan hired by SYRIZA for the prevention of fires and the strengthening of forestry services was abolished. In the air there are still OAS contractors at the OSH ending their contracts and a clear answer have not been received by the government nor a plan for the staffing of health structures exists but for the promotion of privatisation plans. It's a matter of priority, anyway. Now, with regard to the main part of the bill on lobbying, the majority of the Members of Parliament have recognised the legal gap that exists in our country and the need to create an institutional framework so that individuals who want to be able to develop their proposals and demands in an impending draft, for example. Instead of having an enlarged debate and consultation in an integrated and elaborated context, however, you bring in a bill that is very general and with too many shortcomings which have also been highlighted in the committee. In fact, only nine of the 29 articles relate to lobbying or "access to influence" in Greek and of them, five refer to subsequent ministerial decisions. Once again, you do not follow the good practices of other European Union countries and the experience that exists in other countries, and you have not explained why the bill includes more individuals or legal persons to exercise influence than limited to professional lobbies and their respective companies. In fact, this bill does not in any way achieve its stated objective of achieving transparency and accountability, as the Minister has said in European standards, but it is another great communication firework. We could comment and mention a lot of the missing elements of today's legislation. We have already discussed them in committee. However, from the final result, we realise that the New Democracy has never really been interested in bringing a bill that would create a strong and sufficient institutional framework to consolidate the sense of transparency and accountability in society. The New Democracy today brings a bill with so many generalities and ambiguities, so perforated legally that we fear that the basic thing that finally succeeds is to preserve and perpetuate corruption and complication. Besides, maybe it's her great desire. Because, ultimately, in New Democracy, they want to maintain their acquired assets, continue the lobbying that they are doing all this time with BSE, the canalarchs, collegelors, clinical rulers, big-workers, legal offices and big companies, with the well-known results for the Greek people. Hundreds of millions of gifts to the few, Peica lists, direct assignments of millions of euros, etc. and, at the same time, cuts, cuts in eight hours, precision for citizens, reductions in pensions, economic suffocation and locks for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u263	We are now continuing with Mr Constantine Maraveya from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my pleasure at yesterday's announcement of the Ministership of Mr Stylianides and Mr Tourna. The new Minister for Civil Protection has a great deal of experience in managing natural disasters and epidemics and as European Union Commissioner has produced important work internationally. He is a person of unknown authority and competence in the field of civil protection. Likewise, for Mr Tournas as the Supreme Air Force officer, he has managed crises and is aware of the issues of the air fire-fighting instruments that fall within the AEA. But we have some bad news except for the good news of Mr. Stylianides. Mr. Tsipras doesn't approve. I don't know how much this will affect him in the performance of his new duties, but yesterday the Chief of Officerial Response in a television interview expressed doubts as to whether Mr. Stylianides is doing for the Minister. Yes, sir. The man who has given me personalities who will not name them, and who will not be described as them, because you will accuse me of talking to absentees, believes that he is also fit to judge who can become Minister in that country. We were told something else by the Chief of Officer's Opposition, almost a joke. He stated that SYRIZA never publicly condemned Mr. Apostolakis for his brief acceptance of the position of Minister of Civil Protection. He told us that he was his personal counsellor and that he would never expose the party. So they all misunderstood Mr. Apostolakis' s penetration from SYRIZA, who characterized him as a apostate, speaking of his takeover from New Democracy. If all of this was said by another party, we could perhaps take it seriously. Obviously, even Mr. Tsipras does not count them, since yesterday he discredited Mr. Apostolakis' sentence from his own party and at the same time questioned the suitability of Mr. Stylianides who, among other things, has been passed by Harvard. Bad lies, these statements don't surprise anyone. Traditionally, the Party of Officerial Response empowers moderateness and hosts excellence. A characteristic example is his dissent for the ultimate state, scientific knowledge and technocrats. We have seen it throughout the pandemic by undermining the vaccination effort, the constant attacks by SYRIZA against the Committee on Infectiouss, but also the unrelenting attitude of his own Chief even in favour of public concentration, without respecting basic health rules. So in the Apostolakis case, on the one hand, he called for consensus on forest protection and climate change after the last fires and on the other hand, when the Prime Minister offered this consensus, he made public complaints against everything. In any case, the world will decide all this at the end. Mr President, the bill under discussion should be a common place for all parties. However, even for obvious ones, such as monitoring lobbying activities and getting gifts from representatives of the executive, there is no agreement. SYRIZA, the JRC and the Mera25 have already voted against a bill that for the first time sets strict limits and creates control mechanisms. Things are obviously missing and quite rightly come the Ministry of the Interior and Mr Vorides introduce them. The same usefulness, however, is the third part of the draft law which abolishes the scattered derogations from the single mobility system so that its integrity can finally be restored. These are earlier provisions that, for no reason, appeared in 2016 and relate to fifty two bodies and services. But let me say that in this case we are ignoring the elephant in the room and he is no more than e-ECA, who has been in a specific exclusion regime for years. A measure taken on SYRIZA imposed a stagnation on its staff at the time, that is to say, over eight and a half thousand officials and, unfortunately, a measure that has not produced anything. Or at least I have no idea of a study showing that the staff, in which the transfers from the ECA were banned, were transferred to pensions or presented an increased return on the issue of any kind of benefit. It's just a ban that we could characterize as "head hurts, cut head" which shows that e-ECA can't manage its human potential. This is because, even today, there is no distinction between the staff actually employed in pensions and the rest, which has nothing to do with these awards. There is neither a system nor an internal mobility scheme in the e-Venna to allow for the coverage of any gaps, in accordance with the service needs, nor a training programme for officials of the institution concerned with the main pensions. Unfortunately, however, this is not all new phenomena. I say this with the experience of what has happened to e-Ephka for the last four years. An experience that says that the management and development of its human resources has been frozen, without a plan and without a positive result to date for the organization. There is no doubt that the problem of e-ECA is structural and started with the Katorugalou law, a huge bureaucratic structure that has come to have eight and a half thousands of employees and fourteen general addresses. Therefore, the problem is not and was never the quantitative, i.e. whether EVC has eight or ten thousand employees. The problem is purely qualitative, i.e. specialising in insurance and digitizing them. I am sure it is a common concern for all of us how this agency will succeed in its task, how it will give pensions in time and how less is needed for the insured, the employers and the pensioners. That must be the point and nothing else. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying a few words about the positive amendments tabled by the Ministers for Finance and Health. The first comes to strengthen workers in electronic media affected by the crisis, such as regional channels or radio stations and companies producing digital information content. The Health Ministry's amendment on the first dose of compulsory vaccination comes to facilitate the ongoing process in health structures and in pre-school institutions. The incentive to lift the suspension of duties by carrying out the first or only vaccination dose, and also to tighten it up so that it includes both cooperating freelance professionals and trainees, students, at the same units, measures very important for the promotion of vaccination. I must therefore, as a doctor, publicly acknowledge the daring of the new Minister for Health and wish Mr Plory every success in his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u265	Thank you. Mr Giannoulis from SYRIZA now follows Mr Constantinidis from New Democracy, Mr Xanthopoulou from SYRIZA and then we continue with the speakers through Webex and we conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will admit that I can understand, on the basis of the previous speaker's content, why it was so difficult for Mr Mitsotakis to look for within fifty-eight members of the Climate Crisis and Civil Protection Parliamentary Group. Fortunately, it brings me back to the reality that even this severe crisis is wrong for me in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group because the previous speaker, of course, is not a typical example. However, I understand the difficulty. Because there is no one here - no honourer, at the same time as in recent months, probably, you have turned this Chamber, the sacred Chamber of Parliament, into Netflix studio. You know, here we are not turning the 'House of Cards' or 'Casa de Papel' by tabling scripts. This is where bills are submitted, which at the end of the day must reflect on the citizen that something has been decided. Explain what. And it's not the first time. I listened to Mr Voridis with caution and with the intricate use of words trying to fix the fact that systematically in this Chamber there are gaps in content laws, gaps in, in essence, executive decisions following legislative power, pending executive ministerial decisions and baptism. Aren't we going to end this parliamentary catastrophe at some point? In the argument 'but it was before...' what do I answer? Yes, I agree, it may be poor of my experience in parliamentary headquarters, but from my professional experience I have never seen a bill coming with fourteen articles and twenty-five amendments. Never. Or at least the last fifteen years. You ask questions, essentially. In the first part, it introduces the defence of a transparent procedure into the exercise of influence. So, do you want to speak simply and sincerely Greek? If you think that the international term 'lobbying' can cover the 'dalaver', what has already begun since July 19, we are simply pretending. I wonder by voice: Does the representative of a private university abroad in Greece need to influence the Ministry of Education in claiming his interests? No, you've surrendered. Does the representative of the medical equipment industry need to have an influence on the standards of international practice in the Greek Government under Kyriakos Mitsotakis in order to achieve his interests? You don't have to. You have already surrendered, and you have chosen Mr. Ploris to shape the red carpet. Do you have the nerve, while the former Minister of Labour, Mr. Brutsis, is in this Chamber, to talk about the ECA, to talk about the fact that in the summer we faced the sad phenomenon of your trustees taking over the pensions to say 'we were doing wrong, thirty thousand pensioners will not get paid' and you are serious about the fact that it is a matter of personnel that you flew on the road by young scientists, who were chiefly employed in the processing of pensions, entered with procedures for the first time in this country that were worthwhile and flew to the street to send your final, one-party state? You are obviously ignoring it because this is a permanent problem for you, Mr Colleague. It's another reality and another picture you have in mind. It is obvious that Mr Mitsotakis has the illusion that he runs another country than the one we will actually meet out on these roads. As far as public administration is concerned, Mr Voridis, even your favourite sceptic or sardine smile hides a suffocated confidence, but it cannot balance the generalised panic of the government that you are trying to do with every piece of legislation - and with this - is to revive the harsh client state, what will need the approval of the party director, the approval of the political factor to be found within the public administration. It is not what the country needs and it is not what you need to offer as government and you as Minister personally. Well, what's the reality? The reality is that in local government there are services of key importance for public control, transparency, accountability that are systematically undersubscribed are almost exhausted. I will give you one example: in Halkidiki, one of the most complex urban and environmental areas, the technical service of the counter-region has only one technician. Do you know why? The first part of the answer is that at the moment in the ranks of civil servants with the prehistoric Mitsotakis that you have and the thorny redundancies charged as Minister of Administrative Reform, the civil servants are where they leave - they are gone. And the second is that you have invented the easy assignment of scientific audit procedures to individuals. It's not even a maniac, since we started with cinema and art. It's now Bollywood, not even Hollywood. You are entrusting the most important audit and accountability procedures to anyone in front of or at the first party office of New Democracy that will still find a burning torch, unless this will also change. In any case, with a recent example, if your emails are being opened right now, the officials of the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace are protesting. Why? Be the other, co-administered with you and growing through the People's Orthodox Alert, just like you. Three out of three has Giorgos Karatzaferis, four executives inherited, in New Democracy, three are top ministers and the other party leader. In the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace they are protesting and denounced by the officials that they are being given the opportunity to continue doing what they have done with development proposals, because that is how Mr Georgiadis decided. If, therefore, you believe - and I close with this - that the term 'legislative' will be changed in the House and that there will be time-sensitive scenarios, based on your appetites, I regret, but the answer will be given by the citizens, democracy will give it and the race will give it to the reality that is a field - unfortunately for you - not glorious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u267	We are now continuing with Mr Efstathios Constantinidis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are sorry, Mr President, but I can assure you that you will be much more sorry when this answer is given by the Greek people. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in listening to the word 'lobiest' we do not do the best, because the term refers to the router, the trafficker in the background, the interconnector. However, his reparation is not irrelevant to the absence of a regulatory framework in our country and to the denial of the title by various catibagos. So, for the first time in the Greek legal system, the draft law is being discussed to shape terms of legality, integrity, transparency and accountability in the field of representation and promotion of interests in public life, which has been happening for several years in the advanced states and for which - the institutional gap, that is - our country has repeatedly received recommendations from international organisations dealing with the fight against corruption. And while one of the parties would reasonably expect such a legislative initiative to be welcomed positively, this did not happen during the debate in the committee where only the government majority voted in favour of it. This practically means that while lobbying has remained tabula rasa to date, opposition refuses to create a framework that will lighten the institutional blurred landscape. What, though, is lobbying? How good or bad is it? In the broad sense, it is the representation of interests and the exercise of influence over them before the state's institutions. In the narrower and more regulated sense, this gainful exercise of this mediation work in the stages of legislation, the adoption of regulatory acts, circulars, etc. by natural or legal persons who are registered in a special register and are subject to rules, prohibitions, supervision and, in particular, transparency. This is a long-standing activity that, until it is accepted as a legitimate exercise of influence over bodies of political power, has passed several stages of criticism and questioning according to the prevailing ideological perceptions and political culture in each society. In modern urban democracies it is a manifestation of the democratic function in the context of the social and economic freedom and action of a person, a group, of an organisation. Based on its negative sign, it is due to the fact that it incorporates a sectoral, individual or joint claim which, in the common sense, opposes the social interest. However, this is not the case in practice. The development of policy by exploiting specialized knowledge and experience of professionals when they are made in terms of integrity proves beneficial to wider groups and society as a whole. On the other hand, the non-regulation of a field in which different interests are encountered with legislative and executive power creates justified suspicion, perhaps even corruption. Therefore, lobbying existed and will exist and will not be introduced with this draft law in public life, it is simply regulated and controlled for the first time in our country. The attitude of the Opposition to a draft law which was, in principle, welcomed by all the bodies invited during the legislative process, in particular the attitude of the Officerial Response, which, over four and a half years, has not done anything in this direction, namely to regulate this subject. A similar attitude has been taken by SYRIZA and other legislative interventions against corruption, such as the Internal Audit System in the public sector and the establishment of the Integrity Adviser's institution. In words, of course, it does not miss the opportunity to play the honourer of legality and transparency. The results, however, show that with the current government Greece has been climbed into the relevant international rankings and this bill will contribute to its even better evaluation. It is therefore good to know when and what object a Minister is meeting for. As it is good to enter differences in the activity of people of power after the end of their term of office, a phenomenon known as the "switching door" and again dealt with by provisions of this bill. Of course, it does not eliminate any regulation by itself of pathogens in a space. Alas, however, if this were to lead us to the opposite side of the deregulation, which, in practice, or from the result, seems to be defending the counter-population as a whole. Taking into account the innovative and undoubtedly positive provisions for the control of influence activities, for the establishment of the transparency register, for the determination of rights and obligations for lobbyists, for the control of unfair practices by the National Transparency Authority and for the imposition of the penalties provided for, for the provision of gifts to the President of the Republic and members of the Government, as well as the specific arrangements for the abolition of derogations to the Single Mobility System while providing for the possibility of transferring officials to entities where they are engaged by seconding under the repealed provisions, for the appointment to the public relative of a public servant, for the purpose of guaranteeing employees of private law without an indefinite period of time of the Centre for the Environment of Western Macedonia, for the granting of a right to sign to geotechnicians working with fixed-term contracts in public or in OTA, that is also applicable to other specialities, and for the annual planning of public administration and the recruitment of personnel with a fixed-term or contract staff of a fixed-term contract or contract. Here, Minister, we need to look carefully and sensitively at the issue of cleaners of school buildings, which clearly cover fixed and permanent needs in the public sector. To conclude, Minister, please respond to the request by the Western Macedonian institutions to be able to transfer those who work in them with secondment in view of the increased burden and needs faced by the services of the region in the context of the transition to a new production and development model. You have rightly been declared an ally in this effort and you have the good responsibility of constantly defending this honourable title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u269	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. Theophilus Blondopoulos from SYRIZA. We still have four other colleagues who will speak with Webex. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have had some rest from the committee since yesterday, because on the basis of your well-known expressionality you have tried to convince us that the principle that we are voting 'in fact' contradicts the need to regulate the landscape and that we could reserve the individual provisions. First of all, Mr Minister, it is not detached from the contents of the provisions. We agree that there is a need to regulate the landscape, it is a landscape that is unregulated, but the content of the bill you bring - we in this particular case or some others otherwise - does not find us in agreement. Therefore, the principle relates to the content of what is to be voted on in national legislation. Because if you tell us, for example, that the number of guests to CSTs and those who are overnumbered to encapsulate and fly to the depth of the Aegean is clear that the target is legitimate and we agree, but we cannot agree on the method by which the maximum number will be achieved. So this is to make it clear in principle. I shall now proceed to the point. We all know that there is a gap, because it is precisely an area which creates a dynamic and mobilityal area for the individual groups, who want to approach those who have decisive competence and influence them in their own view. I would therefore say, in adopting the peculiarity of the Communist Left, that it is the capitalist jungle, but that does not mean that it should remain the place that is unregulated. And indeed because we all understand that the landscape has to be set up was a brilliant field of understanding, because you do not like the word consensus, a field of understanding to see what all of us can contribute to, so that first and foremost public life can be guaranteed, and secondly, that the functioning of the political system does not have such activities, which are essentially distorting, canceling, distorting the meaning of the popular mandate and the capacity that the minister has to decide on matters of his competence. You didn't do that thing. Instead, you brought us a piece of legislation, which has all nine articles dealing with the issue of influence in itself, of which five will be implemented by ministerial decisions. And here is an interesting point to see in what legislation you brought as Minister of the Interior, or the previous ones from you, which you have reserved for implementing the provisions by ministerial decisions, how many have been adopted and how many laws have been in place since their adoption and after that, are in the air with a view to the adoption of ministerial decisions? So I say this, and why I oppose the substance of the legislation and why we are opposed to the procedure, because the House is voting on something, and then it is up to the Minister with ministerial decisions to regulate it unilaterally. This just makes us sceptical, not to say suspicious. I would like to make a legal point, which I think your legal competence will distinguish. In Article 4, the Scientific Service of the Parliament tells us that: "The provisions of Part One shall in no case affect the fundamental constitutional rights of citizens, such as the rights of freedom". It is the wording used. And the proposal was that it would be appropriate for the sake of clarity to delete the word "the fundamental" since the individual and social rights which constitute the title of Part II of the Constitution, Articles 4 to 25, are not distinguished into fundamental and non-essential. I think it is a wording that you will adopt. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by referring to the famous Rule 20, which was one of the important points of criticism in this House, in which the cases in which the derogation is abolished are numerically and exhaustively recorded at a time when other derogations exist, but which are not mentioned. Therefore, there are still exceptions to the single mobility system. Such derogations are secondments to the Special Service of Building and Energy Inspectors, transfers to the Independent Authority of Public Revenues, secondment of officials to the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, secondments to the Ministry of Development and Investment's Interservice Market Control Unit, secondments to the Greek Development Company, secondments to the Central State Aid Unit. It is therefore selective to incorporate it. Secondly, for us the most crucial point of this part of the bill is in the provision of Article 20(10b). I won't read it because it's known to all of us because we've seen the bill. However, specific questions are raised. There is no provision for services that are clearly subordinated, such as grade 1 OTAs, which will be further weakened by the transfer of the staff who are now seconded to other bodies. Officials who may have been seconded for several years and have actually been cut off from the institution of origin are treated under the same conditions, so they can reasonably be transferred, with posted officials even a few days ago. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. Completion of the transfer or not falls within the exclusive competence of the host entity without taking into account any objective criteria. In view of the fact that in the last two years the Government of New Democracy has served as a distraction bar outside the system procedures, the impression is reasonable to suggest that a range of customer games is being created at the expense of employees. We say yes to the possibility of transferring officials, but we think that some basic criteria should be laid down to ensure that the procedure is rational and objective and that is not done with this bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Spyridon Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with an observation, Mr President. Mr Vorides was right when he said that the committees, which are mainly of a legal nature, should be limited to the bills and less to the news. However, in plenary, it cannot be avoided for no party or colleagues. So the issues that have been raised, I think they are the subject of discussion. Mr President, Minister, I raise a matter concerning the Ministerialisation of Mr Stylianides, not politically. The political deficit that has been mentioned and condemned and I leave it at the moment at the forefront. Mostly as a lawmaker, I will deal with the matter and I want to tell you this. Mr Voridis, you know very well that Law 3528/2007 on Greek citizenship expressly states that those who acquire Greek citizenship with naturalisation cannot be appointed as officials in any position of the Greek state, unless one year has elapsed since naturalisation. Keep this as a prisoner. Secondly, I have read today a statement by the well-known constitutionalist Mr Kalantzis and I am particularly surprised at this, which I see is currently playing on all social networks. It states what is easily understood, that the ministers are proposed by the Prime Minister, but the President of the Republic is nominated by them, at least in formal terms. It has exclusive competence and appoints a Minister who was naturalized by Greek on this point, that is to say, with the sole aim of becoming Minister. If that is the case, Article 81 of the Constitution is violated, because Article 81 of the Constitution refers to Article 55, Mr Voridis, which states the obstacles and qualifications of a minister. It is what concerns a Member of Parliament too. What does Rule 55 say about the Member's impediments? It says, therefore, that no one can be appointed a member of the government or a State Secretary if he does not obtain the qualifications laid down in Rule 55 for the Member. It is a key, important criterion and the capacity that the Member should have is the Greek citizenship of at least over a year. That's not here. I'm leaving it. Keep it, because if you combine it, it's a deficit. We are talking about a rule of law that must be successful in the laws and, above all, the basic charter, which is the Constitution. A second element is the following. Here, for the first time after the post-Culture, I think, after World War II, a person who does not have the Greek citizenship, that is to say, that is, it does not arise from the Greek political community or from the community of the government, which I do not think is so sterile that he could not find a person. Now listen to what problems of international law arise, Mr Voridis. It is known that Greece and Cyprus are two different states. And we say that Cyprus does not consist of Turks and Greeks, but of Cypriots of different nationalities. We say this at all times, in all the European institutions and in all international bodies. Now, what do we say here today, with Mr. Stylianides' Ministership? That a Cypriot who is considered Greek can be undermined and is, of course, Greek with the elements of language, cultural tradition. But you know that this is how we confuse the permanent position of the Greek state, the Greek state over time, that in Cyprus there is a state, the Cyprus state, with ethnicities of Greeks, Cypriots, etc. I think that this is a mistake and I think it is a prudence of the Prime Minister who should be protected, as a top newspaper says today, from his partners, because he will create many issues of international law and foreign policy. I'm up against it. One of this. Secondly, there is no doubt that the bill is trying to regulate lobbing. I have been following all the committees since the beginning of plenary, Mr Vorides, and since this morning I have not missed a second. I have heard all the arguments of all the parties, all the Members of Parliament and your own natural arguments. I think with what you're doing, with the bill on lobbing, a huge question emerged. You said it yourself. The question is whether the bill should be a little conservative and take a step - a step forward in its establishment in the Greek legal order, in our legal and legal culture and in our political, of course, level and political space, or whether it should be shallow and very bold. You have chosen the first solution, despite the fact that two leading extra-parliamentary bodies, such as international transparency and Vouliwatch, have urged you and the parties and the whole political system to follow a solution to a radical legislation, because the country is too backward and I think that this proposal of these two bodies was based on one assumption. So, what admission? The raging and audacious were imposed by the country's social, economic and political reality, for which, if anyone wants to read politically, would ask two questions. Is there corruption? Is there opacity? Is there a lack of accountability? There are all three almost systematically in the Greek state after the war and they are tempted, they are afflicting it, they are taking off rights, they are creating economic discomfort, and so on, colleagues have said, and I do not repeat them. That's for granted. Another, Mr Vorides, which makes me particularly surprised is the fact that you are choosing the step - the step by step. I'm not saying it's bad, it's bad legality. It's your choice. But I would say that rhetoric and boldness would also be justified by a statement by a former Prime Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, who said about the famous pimps. What society is aware of is that to stop the matter at last, a collective social consciousness needs to be made that pimps, canalarchs and publishers go up and down governments. Many times he testified to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that a canalarch and publisher make up many of the commercial councils earlier, of course. We have seen it in part in the past few days and even confessed by the Maximos Mansion. So all of this actually justifies the rheumatism and the daring, which you have not chosen. I think that apart from these reasons, there are many other people who would have imposed the choice of a bold piece of legislation on the standards of the Netherlands, Germany and Canada. I have seen the amendments with the legislative improvements. They're generally positive. There is no doubt about it and it is moving in many ways, in part, on what Vouliwatch and international transparency deserved. But it is a second measure of political decision. You leave half a lot of things. I will go to the questionable article 6, which I am particularly interested in. What Vouliwatch says and international transparency are to the institutional bodies, Mr Vorides, local and regional authorities, since according to Article 101 of the Constitution the administration of the state is by the choice of the decentralised system? It is something that all the countries of Europe have chosen since 1950, they have progressed unfaithfully, constantly thriving with the choice of the decentralised system, and that is the way that our country must go until decentralisation is completed. So, I think that's what these two bodies are proposing when they are proposing that the TAs be included in the institutional bodies, at least from a number of populations and above - we are not talking about small cities - or about economic issues from a budget of an amount or more. I agree with this proposal, and I think you are not going to choose it badly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Colleague, please have reached nine minutes, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u274	I didn't understand that, Mr. President. I'm ending up with something I wanted to say from the beginning. I have reached the main point on which I wanted to speak, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u275	You got ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u276	...for Article 6, and to say, Minister, that you have indeed been vindicating Mrs Adamopoulou, because she has also put it on the first day of the committee. Now I'm closing up with a sentence, Mr. Voridis. Do you choose, Mr Vorides, a criterion for banning the activity of influence to be the penalty - any penalty - or the offence? Now listen to the bribery of a clerk, so that the man who bribed a bribesman...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u278	...to go see the clerk for activity...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u279	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u280	I think you're wrong. Select offences as provided for in the Civil Service Code. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u281	Thank you. Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u282	Good evening, Mr. President. Thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent time today when we are discussing an important bill on strengthening transparency and accountability to state institutions and, indeed, restoring the integrity of the Single Mobility System and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior. This is a very important bill, the aspects of which both Mr Kyranakis and Mr Brutsis have analysed in detail, and I should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction with Minister Voridis and his colleagues for the initiative they have taken to table the bill in this House for a vote, at an important juncture for the country, Mr President. Because the transparency and autonomy of policy towards business interests are a matter of democracy and of armoring institutions and are linked together with the credibility of policy, the relationship of trust with the citizens. So this is something very important, and this bill we are debating today is an essential institutional intervention in this direction. At the same time, it is extremely timely, because a specific framework of rules for lobbying and the communication of institutions with representatives of interest is being established for the first time. We all know that lobbying can easily be diverted into unfair activity. And those of us who have experience of self-government, from government, but also from parliament, understand how important this bill is. On the other hand, the only security that exists to make lobby a legitimate activity is the creation of a framework of rules and restrictions by imposing rules of transparency. This is the first time that our country has acquired a legislative and institutional framework for lobbying, covering a large gap. Under this institutional framework, the President of the Republic, the members of the Government, are forbidden to receive all kinds of benefits and benefits. That is what the citizen wants, and today he finds out that he is becoming the law of the state. In fact, it is foreseen that gifts that may be received and their value exceeds EUR 200 will be owned by the Greek State. The gifts offered will be recorded in every detail regarding their value, the donor's details, the cause of the donation, and the way the gift is kept. All of this is recorded in a special electronic book held by the Presidency of the Republic and the Presidency of the Government, while on an annual basis the list of gifts received by the President of the Republic and the members of the Government will be published on the Internet last year. The second point to mention is the introduction of the electronic database, the Transparency Register, in which anyone who wants to work as a lobbyist is obliged to register. This applies not only to natural persons but also to associations, professional associations, chambers and civil society bodies. It is very important from this point of view that we find it original in a bill for the first time to be able to widen this possibility of legislating beyond the government, the natural persons, and the institutions of government, but also the productive classes and bodies. Thirdly, Mr President, I would like to point out that lobbies are obliged to all their contacts and communications with institutional representatives and bodies to disclose their status and identity of their client for whom they are working. In fact, on an annual basis, they are required to submit an electronic declaration to the National Transparency Authority. What for? For their activities in each area and for the kind of decisions for which they have exercised this influence, as well as for how to carry out the activity of influence and the institution to which they have intervened. Minister, let me refer here to the issue of the abolition of derogations from the Single Mobility System. I know your experience, I know you know the island site. There were, in fact, problems with provisions in the legislative framework for the implementation of the single system of mobility of workers in the public sector, and the creation of uniform rules. You will, however, allow me to point out that the horizontal dimension of the rules on the mobility of civil servants must be distinguished in particular in cases concerning our small and distant islands. And what do I mean by that, Minister? As you know, the public services on the small and remote islands are subordinated. You also know from the references made to you by both the self-government structures in the southern Aegean, the Ionian, the northern Aegean, the Sporades, but I am referring mainly to my region, the Dodecanese. You know that from both the South Aegean Region and the municipalities of the Dodecanese. Submission has a negative impact on the civil service network and on the economic and social development of the islands, as well as on the quality of the services that the State must provide to its citizens. With today's data, Minister, it is difficult to choose from a public official to move to a remote area and to small islands. You are also aware of the reports and reports made by the mayors throughout the island. I have proposed that in exceptional cases, and especially for civil servants, the right to join mobility should be granted without the current restrictions, only if they choose to serve in island and intimate areas. I think, Minister, that it is a matter that you should look carefully and I make a public invitation here from the Step of the House to attend the Committee on Regions, to discuss the matter in detail and to provide you with details of the undermining of public services on small islands and remote islands, especially throughout the country. The size of these islands, the given difficulties and the specificities of islands, but also the small number of officials who could be the potential beneficiaries, I do not think it constitutes a derogation from the Single Mobility System, if we want and have the desire to give substance to the concept of supporting islands and island policy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u283	Thank you for the time too. We're finishing the process with Mrs. Kafantari from SYRIZA. The rapporteurs will follow for four minutes and the Minister will finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the final state of Mr Mitsotakis during this summer's, normal summer, as he wanted to say since May in an interview with the 'BILD', was anything but normal. First of all, I'm talking about the large forest fires that have arisen in our country. That is exactly what the operation of the civil protection system actually showed that there is no state at all. Also, a relatively serious issue is the fact that the issue of civil protection and this great catastrophe, with 1.3 million acres of burning land, has led to a remodeling that has taken too much, but we call it a fiasco remodelling of the procedures that have been followed and will probably have a Minister in the new Ministry of Civil Protection and Climate Change set up by Mr Mitsotakis. I do not go into legal matters raised by a previous colleague of the SYRIZA. I will say that the work will be judged by politics and not by communication, as Mr Mitsotakis' government uses. A second serious issue, and here I would say a point of collapse and inefficiency of the state of emergency, is the vaccination procedure. The government has dealt with the issue of vaccinations unsuccessfully, and that is why we have the results we have and the 'Delta' mutation, in a number of areas that have to do with public health, which have to do with the communication of vaccination and its necessity and, of course, have to do with everything that has been said and the recurring on the part of the government at this time. But here I will say that the question was raised by both the parliamentary representative and our rapporteur on whether the New Democracy Members are vaccinated. I read that there are statements by Ministers on the fact that 'yes, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is'. I'm glad to hear that. I think it's true and I mean what I'm saying I'm happy. I would, of course, like to hear it from the new Minister for Health in the House. Indeed, it is also for public health, but much more for the message we give and we must give the Greek people. I cannot, however, say that radio, press, etc., are still targeting SYRIZA in this case. Here clearly I will say that, firstly, all the Members of this Parliament are vaccinated and, secondly, that what the government has failed to achieve and the poor communication of the need for vaccination, we contribute in our way with our presence. From that point on, however, it is equally important that we are always next to the struggling health workers who, because they have not been properly informed because they have not had the information they need, because they fear, for a thousand reasons - except for conspiracy logics that are small minority - they have not been vaccinated, and at the moment the government is punishing them with suspension, with a lack of wages and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Public health workers will always be side by side, because clearly the Mitsotakis Government's objective of privatising the ESS is also apparent and private people enter the public health system in any way, such as PPPs, etc. ........................................ I close this parentheses and come to the draft law by saying that once again you legislate, gentlemen of the government, on the basis of communication. You say the aim of your legislation is to ensure the integrity, transparency and accountability. However, your actions as a two-year state, and with the management of the pandemic I said before, but also with the service of private interests with a number of arrays in various areas, as well as with the partyisation of the state - and that you have shown even that in the appointment of the AACC - you are showing that no more than you are really interested in transparency. As regards the National Transparency Authority that you introduced in 2019, I have some doubts as to whether the National Transparency Authority is. In addition, this bill to be implemented requires a number of provisions, including the adoption of several delegated decisions. Now I come and place in particular the third part on the arrangements of the Ministry of Interior for the Single Mobility System. The fact is that in recent years there have been many provisions for derogating from and relocations. This has created a very big public issue, but I shall mention very much - because I also have such elements from my region in municipalities in western Athens - in the part of local government and primary local government. Over there, really, there's too much trouble. It mentions the bill cases where the derogation is abolished, but it is too many cases that are not mentioned. Therefore, there will continue to be exceptions such as the Special Service of Building Inspectors, the Independent Authority of Public Revenues, the secondment of officials to the Ministry of Migration, the secondments to the Inter-Service Market Control Unit and, of course, to the Greek Development Bank, etc. There is, however, a significant number of exceptions outside the regulation of this bill which is also yours if you want laws that have been passed by you. I am now talking about the provision of Article 20B 10b - and I am not going to read what includes - where we are talking about officials, with regard to private work, who are organically owned by public bodies and who are serving in bodies at the start of the day. ‘They may, at their request, within an exclusive period of 10 days from the entry into force of the law, transfer to the body serving in a vacant organic position, if it exists in a sector of the same category.’ This is an issue, because it also relates to the need and the problem that exists in primary self-government, which is already underrepresented, but on the other hand it will be weakened even further. People who are seconded years will be treated in the same way as an employee who may have been seconded a few days ago. In other words, it is rather a customer's idea that this particular issue will be taken advantage of by the government. In conclusion, I would also like to say about the recent extremely urgent circular of June 11, 2011 to OTAs concerning the disclosure of mobility posts, etc., that I do not read numbers - where your Government's intentions are revealed to undermine permanent employment relationships in the public sector. Refugee to hire permanent staff and, on the other hand, reduce the number of contract staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u285	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u286	The CEDEFOP also reacted and reacted to its conference. Its President, Mr Papastergiu, specifically referred to the problems created in the municipalities by saying: 'We need to live up to our opposition to unconditional mobility. The municipalities are empty.’ The same was done by other mayors. I am referring to too many mayors - I will not say specifically - I have only one position in front of me of the mayor of Larissanes, who is again in that sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u288	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u289	Close for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u290	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I'm the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u291	And what does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u292	At the same time, the elected representatives' reactions were large, saying 'we are not allowed to hire staff'. I'll close the position on SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. We are in favour of permanent recruitments of necessary staff, permanent appointments, adequate staffing of the ATTs to meet their needs, without undermining the permanent employment relationships in the public sector. And, of course, we say no clearly in the clientele state built by the Mitsotakis Government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. We shall now begin the procedure with the rapporteurs. Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u294	Mr. President, will we have seven minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u295	We won't put seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u296	The Rules of Procedure say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u297	I know what the Rules of Procedure say, Mr. Cyranakis. Unfortunately, it can't be. Up on the Stepma because of health issues with the coronary and because of the mask. Mrs Adamopoulou has spoken for eighteen minutes, and she has five more. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, I would ask for your tolerance for more time, because when we take amendments which are inappropriate and legal improvements at the last minute, I beg your pardon, but we do not have time in this short time. In relation to legislative improvements, Minister, we welcome them. They're moving in the right direction. However, these are anaemic improvements because they leave you unregulated other issues, such as the definition of lobbying. This is not just what we have told you, the Scientific Service of the Parliament has told you, apart from the other bodies I have mentioned. Included again in house lobbying. There is nothing about publicity of the agenda for ministerial meetings. You have not done anything by authorizing it, so that there is a margin of exhaustive listing in relation to the past lobbista. As we have also not looked at the elements that we have proposed and which must be included in the register, you do not even give it a supervisory role. In conclusion, therefore, these anaemic improvements are also that the government is trying to convince that in the war of our lobbying there is enough legislative arsenal consisting of waterproofers with incomplete provisions of limited scope, with looseness in requirements and conditions and with many issues, as I said. We are not going to see a pretext in a sector very closely linked to a time-consuming dilemma in the country, and I am thinking above all of the political corruption and the complexity that exists between rulers and interests, pressure groups. So we have another communication ward that will become the law of the state and once again the government is enthusiastic about a literal wrapping. In the constant tactics of the "Metsotakis S.A." what is called safeguarding integrity and transparency in the exercise of activities of influence describes a virtual reality and nothing more. As for the Ministry of Finance's amendment to our firefighting fellow citizens, a few words. The margin of one hundred and twenty days is inadequate. In any case, let me say first that you are in agreement with us in any attempt to help the firefighting residents and businesses. Merra25 has put forward a number of proposals in this respect, but we see that the 100 twenty-day margin is inadequate for the economic development of the regions. We expect much more than the legislative and procedural crustaceans that you appear to be important initiatives. So we do not see the government showing the reflexes it should show in relation to this disaster. Another and elsewhere you are rushing to legislate to help a blue situation as by magic, but when we are dealing with our undignified fellow citizens, there is not really tomorrow. All they receive is cynicism and indifference, along with the government's heavy organizational and management responsibilities towards people who lost their lives, their homes and their future. We would therefore expect a more coherent holistic and proportionate plan for social and ecological reconstruction. In relation to the amendment by the Ministry of Health, our parliamentary representative has said so well. I, too, say that instead of perpetuating the sanitary, what you're doing is simulate the war against the sanitary, against society. You are creating conditions of polarization, social automation with divisive and authoritarian measures that raise and serious issues of unconstitutionalism. I asked the Minister for Health in particular about the measure of suspending a health contract because they will not produce the vaccination certificate and I have proposed, in essence, alternatives. He did not say anything essential in that regard. You are insisting on one-sidedness, and you are obsessed with vaccinations only because you want to hit labour rights in this way too. You will cause much more dysfunction in this way. That's not all I'm saying. The President of the Ice Bay said so in honour, the former Minister of Staff, Mrs Thanos, who said that a softer measure should be found for those who offer their services at a rate that you have abandoned. So you are transferring your responsibilities for subsistence of the ESS to the fact that you have not carried out mass free tests, as we have told you for so long, nor have you permanently carried out health tests. And while the intubated and because we are in the fourth wave of pandemic and have the "Delta" mutation, what you really want to do is impose coercion measures, disproportionate to the objective, since there are alternative measures and healing measures such as monoclonal antibodies, but we do not want to see them. Well, you want to attack labour rights and, above all, to serve the profitability of business groups and not to protect the population in health. That's a pretext. There is something else in this amendment about pharmacists and you say in particular that specific administrative fines are imposed on the inconveniences. It is Article 1 of the amendment under number 1062. Pharmaceuticals fall within the government in the same field as private doctors and are subject to exhaustive fines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we see that the government, the "Metsotakis S.A.", works the pandemic to such an extent that it serves the business interests and the detriment of pharmacists. It also obliges them to paste a sticker if they have been vaccinated or not. This is also another issue of the breach of personal data. And for what? What is the health risk compared to pharmacists? It's a store they have. What is the reason for the overriding public interest to impose such fines and sanctions on them? So I conclude, Mr President, with an amendment we have tabled which concerns the protection of the environment and public space against arbitrary constructions and buildings. The difficulty in implementing the law on the demolition of arbitrary buildings and structures on illegally imprisoned areas is a timeless wound to the domestic political system. The pluralism and duplication of competence by institutions are, as they have always been, the most appropriate justification for refusing to apply legislation and judicial decisions, where this refusal is not a product of the kind. Cases concern infringements of public land as a general rule for commercial reasons, with infringements of the Aegean in tourist areas being the most widespread cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u299	Mrs. Comrade, please complete. You've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u300	I shall conclude, Mr President. I told you I needed more time and please just for your tolerance. A large number of complaints, therefore, see each year the light of publicity for entrepreneurs that extend their businesses to public areas and archaeological or environmental importance, getting huge profits. So this amendment - and I end with it - aims to clarify the legal framework by giving the local municipal authorities the opportunity to carry out judicial decisions on the demolition of arbitrary buildings and structures in order to ensure the immediate implementation of the law, while preventing aspiring offenders from knowing that any violation will not be sustainable. Mr President, thank you. Once I'm telling you that I'm done, it's at least unwise to interrupt a speaker. Improve the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u301	Unfortunately, Mrs Adamopoulou, everyone tells me that they are completing and do not end, continue and continue as far as they can. The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas. Please, come to Stepma, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I will be brief, as always.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u303	Let me see, I can't believe it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u304	We'll be brief and practical. I shall refer only to legislative improvements and amendments, nothing else. We're following the process. Mr. Voridis, we said to bring some sort of legislative improvement to see if you can convince us to vote. We have made an observation to you and we have said that there must be sanctions, that they must be dissuasive and that you are reducing the penalties here. We said the opposite, Mr. Voridis. Two years ago, you've been doing it for eighteen months. Did I get it wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u305	Yeah, since you asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u306	You'll take the floor later, and you'll tell me. Let's go down. These are three amendments by the Ministry of Finance. The first of the Ministry of Finance we said we would vote for it because it has relief measures for people who have been hit by fires in particular and it goes on to say. However, Minister, you should be aware that these people should be supported for a very long time. We have mentioned this before we say it and now that the hundred and twenty days are a very short time. I see the project, come back in a couple of months and give it an extension. It's a little too little. What should people do first in four months, in a hundred and twenty days? They've kneeled, they've lost their livelihood. Where can they stand on their feet and how will they be able in a hundred and twenty days to meet the obligations? I think you'll come back. We are going a little to the shameful and obscene amendment by Mr Plumb of the Minister for Health. What can anyone say? I don't know if you're going out there at all, but you've created a very bad situation to know and you've separated Greece in two. He's talking about compulsory vaccination, about vaccination for students in private, public, municipal health structures, about those who practice. He talks about compulsory work everywhere, everywhere, for suspension of duties, punishment of employers, punishment of free health professionals, fines, compulsory. A systemic amendment unbelievable at the pace of compulsoryity. We'll call it a hundred times. We're against vaccination. Now, we're going to vaccination children and you're expanding it even further to priests! Incredible things! You've failed on all fronts. We said something and Mr. Plearis whistled indifferently. We got him out in the hallway. You did not respond, Minister, again. If you want to convince people to be vaccinated, remove the impunity to the doctors you voted on in the scientific committee. Tell them you'll remove the impunity, that the vaccines are safe and go to vaccination. Why don't you do it? Why don't you do it? Let's go to the last amendment. Listen, Mr. Voridis, now you're the Minister here. You're doing it yourself, you're following a scorched man. We must stop at last and people must understand what is happening in the Greek Parliament. He's bringing in an amendment from the Minister. It could be Voridis, it could be Chiara, it could be anyone. It has the amendment within seven, eight articles, and that is a mistake. It's about the President of Parliament. It is not possible in an amendment with eight, nine articles to call as a party, either to vote in favour or to vote against. I'll explain it to the people who might not know the parliamentary procedure. Mr. Voridis, what is foreigners doing with the expatriates? So in the amendment from the Ministry of Interior you bring a provision for foreigners who can be any Pakistani, Afghans, anything. We don't want to vote for it, bro. We do not want the discharge you give from the written examinations to get citizenship for people over sixty-two years of age. It's our taste and our hat. We do not want to relieve anyone from this process and we want to vote against it. That's really nice. In the second article on my own amendment, however, you put the Greeks, the Greeks. What do the foreigners have to do with foreigners? And you're blocking us and putting us in a difficult story and we don't know what to vote for. Yeah, with the foreigners inside? No, let's shoot the expatriates? Are you serious? So why don't you give us the opportunity to vote on each article separately? You will tell me that it is not your issue, the complaints to the mayor or the President of Parliament. It's his case. Yes, but this is not a parliamentary procedure, Mr. Voridis. This is not a parliamentary procedure. What are we going to vote on here? What does our relatives have to do with foreigners in the same amendment first? None at all. You are trying to encroach on us and then say that if we vote, "see what the Greek Solution and Velopoulos did, he voted for benefits for foreigners" or not that he did not vote for the relatives. "Get them," they'll say the trolls, Mr. Rapporteur. And then they'll go out and tear us apart, the way the system works. I'm not talking about yours, I'm talking about the New Democracy. Alas, it's nothing personal. So, Mr Vorides, until the order is restored and until we vote for what exists, that is, yes here and not here, we do not fall into this trap. This is not a parliamentary way of doing so at all. I'd say the opposite. And we from this amendment abstain, so that we do not throw water into your own mill and play your own game. Micropolitical games not with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u307	I just want to say that the House doesn't make the articles. The Articles shall be submitted by the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u308	No, we're voting together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u309	I say to you that there is a regulation, that these issues are voted on. It does not put the procedure for what the articles will be and what each article will include. I'm just saying that to make that clear. Now we're going to Mr. Delis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to remind you again of the vertical, the radical disagreement of our party with the main content of the bill, with the lobbying for two extremely simple reasons: neither the popular strata will benefit from it, nor will corruption be struck or even reduced. That is what international experience has been saying from countries where it has been applying for decades. Apart from that, however, we consider that trying to lay rules in the capitalist jungle, in any jungle, - jungle and rules to the contrary - except for uselessness is also dangerous. Just think of putting the phytosanitary rule in the tigers and waiting for the rest alive in the jungle to be observed! Let's stay on these. We have not mentioned the second part of the bill at all. Here too, we must say that we do not want to strongly oppose the provisions of this part concerning the granting of gifts to the President of the Republic or to the President and the members of the Government. We shall be placed with 'the present'. But we cannot fail to note, Minister, that this section of the bill is also objectively aimed at emphasizing the image of the operation of the urban state in the eyes of the people's strata. This assessment does not strengthen it and the fact that, as shown by the bill - unless we have missed something - no effective control is provided for and no sanctions are provided for in the rules laid down. I want to go to the third part of the bill that has several articles, of course, regardless of the first or second part. Article 20 ‘Incidentality and derogations’. This is an extremely complex and serious issue and a problem in addition. The way in which the mobility process has been exploited by all the governments fully confirms what we have said since the first time as a JRC, namely that the mobility of civil servants has been used - and even as far as it should not - in order to replace staff shortages in various critical sectors of the public sector. Instead of recruitment, instead of the full staffing of the services, mobility from service to service was chosen every time, and this often led to the substantial paralysis of several services because they lost their staff. We were pulling a hole and creating other services. Article 22: The right to sign public documents shall be granted to the eight-monthly contracting geotechnics - for up to eight months contracted. One would say "Let's take a step, my child, upgrade these workers". We believe that the real upgrading of these workers is their permanentization, so they automatically gain the possibility and the right of this signature. So it's nothing more than instability, deepening and consolidation, you'd say, elastic industrial relations. For Article 23, in relation to research programmes, it is an extremely brief article, which says that Article 93 of Law No.4310/2014 remains in force. I don't know why he's coming in. Was there, then, any doubt that this article does not apply? It raises some questions for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, can I make a clarification with your permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u312	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u313	There was the following question of interpretation, which he has dealt with, and was whether it was because we have a later adoption of the SAAP Act, it was considered that this later law effectively abolishes the previous specific regulation. And there was one question if the later one or that one as a specialist prevails. We are resolving the issue and saying that this is a special issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u314	So there is a solution to the doubt. In any case, in order to talk about the substance of this provision, what this article does is that it maintains fixed-term contracts in research programmes and, of course, excludes the possibility of converting the contract into indefinite time, as the researchers themselves would like to have a tranquility in their working relationships in order to concentrate and dedicate themselves to their research work. In other words, it is planned to continue this unacceptable regime of extension of contracts, but with expiry date and, of course, to maintain flexible forms of employment, mobility, the hunting of funding and so on. Article 25: With this article you will openly reduce recruitment to the public of contractors. Does this mean that the permanent positions in the public are increasing accordingly? Not at all. The aim is to reduce public service staff and, in particular, those who have a social character, obviously to open up even more, in order to make privatization easier. Article 27, for the musicians of the municipalities. So far, a provision of Law 4483/2017 was pending, which would define a very specific organogram of organic music posts in the music sets of the municipalities. With Article 27, with what you are introducing now, this lack of a positive provision, namely that the musicians, these people, are waiting for something good, so this positive looseness, rather a shortness of the positive provision, and that, of course, is an extremely negative development for too many workers of music. We will vote against it. It's self-evident. Our parliamentary representative has been put on the table for the amendments. I would just like to say a few words about the 1061 with a specific number of 106. You know, in the examinations on the acquisition of citizenship, especially for older people and disabled people, the issue is not who will be chaired by the Committee on Examinations, Minister, the issue is their own examinations, their content, the issue bank and the question of examinations for the acquisition of citizenship and, in particular, the knowledge that is required, the content in a few words. The examinations themselves have a very high degree of difficulty. I do not know whether people who live and were born in our country could succeed and that, of course, has given rise to quite a lot of reactions. We have also tabled a relevant question. It is not the question of who will collect the paradoxes, it is the height of the offenders, which is too high. Finally, this is directly about the Ministry itself. So far, the reform of the municipality's budget has been recommended by the Economic Commission but it has decided to do so by the municipal council itself, which is also the sovereign body of the municipality. Slowly and slowly with the second part of the amendment, there is a practice in which the various decisions of the municipal council committees prevail and are binding on the municipal council itself. We know the excuse, "Poverty has been eaten." I'm afraid that's what starts in general. It is a dangerous tactic, an unacceptable tactic, because it undermines the very dominant position of the municipal council, which is, of course, also the sovereign body in every local government body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u315	We are now continuing with Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Look, Mr President, I think that both myself and my colleagues are asking for time, because on 6 this afternoon the Minister brought the legislative improvements, and only to study this matter takes time. Because we have had a great deal of talk about good legislation, Minister, and because we have said all of this, I believe that you are respecting colleagues and always think that you are speaking elegantly and kindly and addressing us. That does not mean, however, that at the level of political work, that is to say legalisation, you are acting properly. And I'm explaining. We have been discussing for a week and since the first reading of this bill we have tabled our proposals. For a whole week and you have told us, I would like to think that all these thoughts on our proposals will grow up in your mind and decide what you will accept and what you will not accept. That's all it took a week. You also said something else that I want to stand on. You said that you were the people of Parliament, you said at noon, i.e. I do the job in Parliament, and I discuss the Members and I hear them. That is not the case, Minister. You say that, but at least I reserve the depth you express with that thought. Parliamentaryism has institutions and has expressions in Parliament, but of course there are experts, who are very serious, such as accountability, such as transparency, researchers who have devoted their lives to this subject for years, we cannot say that they offer absolutely nothing and we cannot make them partners in a debate, bruv. In a conversation! Like what if you call the Vouliwatch, which everyone tells you, and the International Transparency Annex in Greece? I can't understand what would happen to you. How about you? I do not know why this fear of 'outside Parliament' in 'outside Parliament'. Can I tell you something? If we had a regulation which would give a lot more time to consult internally, that is, within Parliament, to accept it, to say the Minister comes in institutional terms. When we have the three-minute period, when we have the President above our head to say 'finish, finish' - each President I mean, not this President - then, indeed, Minister, I do not know on what terms and how you understand it. So when we talk about good legislation we must take into account all those who, when they talk, have something serious to say. And these bodies, as we read them in hundreds of pages, you and your advisers had something very serious to say. You've brought legal improvements. I also want to have the opportunity at some point - I do not know where, in a committee, somewhere, I will find a way - to say that the way in which the legislative improvements take place needs at least one hour to adapt the paragraph, the verse and the article in the respective article of the bill. That is not possible, too. In other words, we need to download scientific associates, teams down to process legislative improvements. Is this a good law, Minister, you guys who care about good law? Is it? It's not. And it's not when you're even bringing them this way right now. In any case, however, the very serious things are going to be said. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] You have come and said, Minister, that you have made very important changes, points of view. That's what you named them. Well, no point, I'll answer you. Why? Why have you not nominated, Minister, who are the lobbies in your register, the real lobbies, only those on pay, that is, professional lobbies. You didn't do that. In the Transparency Register, in which these people are registered, representatives of interests we are talking about, it is not compulsory to register. You didn't take care of that either. It does not have a clear framework of sanctions on either side. Also, you did not connect it to a website, code of conduct and citizen complaint platform, as proposed by the Change Movement. You have not linked the Transparency Register to these three parts, which are important to democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a little more time and I'll be done. You added to Article 10 the intended result. But you have not made any leaps in relation to the proposals we have given you. A leap of boldness, Minister, to overcome even yourself. The criminal situation of the representatives of interests. We at the Change Movement - because you were looking at us when you said that - didn't say that thing. We said a white penal record. irrevocable conviction. Not eighteen months or two years, etc., etc. A spokesperson who deals with the political leadership of the place and the political authorities - I will only take this part, I will leave everything else - will have a white record of criminal law. irrevocable conviction. You don't want to have a white criminal, because you're going to tell me I'm tightening it up and maybe it's for a K.O.C.Huh? Okay, except for K.O.K., I see you, I'm legal. Then, Minister, for this kind of offence, the financial offences that are happening, if it has eighteen months for fraud, for misappropriation, for theft to be a representative of interests to come to speak with the Minister and the State Secretary? Yeah, you think so? No, we are. You also did not bring the special information that we said it was very important for there to be. For example, these contacts between the two parties, the representatives of interests and the political leadership, what else do they have? Do they have any costs that are recorded? They have income, they have sponsorships, they have gifts? Is that supposed to be recorded somewhere? Where? There's nowhere to be expected. Finally, as far as self-government and public administration are concerned, we have also opened up such a debate today and it has been a very good opportunity to hear the views of another of whom, the Change Movement, which has a tradition in this area - a repository of provisions by way of derogation. What do you mind, Minister, since SYRIZA has done so many hundreds and you are abolishing today some of SYRIZA's? So put in a repository, a register of derogating provisions, as we have proposed, so that everyone knows who has, when, and why. Just two words, because the Secretary of our Parliament has said so, as far as the Health Ministry's amendment is concerned. This is a very serious matter. We cannot take part in the vote, because you cannot be 'both with the police and the police!'. Or you take measures that you want us to put back and go out first and say in favour of vaccinations and yes, measures and yes, suspensions etc., but you cannot close your eyes to private individuals, because that is wicked, you have an administrative sanction. And what's an administrative sanction, and further, Minister? Objection, openness, trial after that - when? -, postponed, finale, etc., and we're talking about 2021. So that's what you're proposing here to be imposed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with something that you will not deny me the opportunity to say about self-government and run away from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u317	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u318	Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister has not been placed on this matter. So I say - and I won't say anything else, just that - that in self-government we go from evil to worse with the pandemic. The collective organs and municipal councils are shrinking. Once again, with Article 5, you raise a matter here for the economic committees to decide and not for the municipal councils. This is very serious and, of course, there is also a confession here. You are putting an exceptional provision into your amendment that reveals that the budgets of the ATT are currently in the air literally. And be careful, we are in the last quarter of 2021 and they pay with a 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u319	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u320	I would like to ask the President-in-Office why he is not leaving me - the gift you are sending to Thessaloniki. I imagine, however, that it is in this context of mutual intrinsicity, social intimacy in the face of IBM. That's all I can justify. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u321	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Zachariadis and we will conclude with Mr Kyranakis. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Vorides complains, because some of them went out of the question today. I, Mr Voridis, have come out of the question, but I would like to remind you that seven months ago, when you took over this portfolio, you were here and with the euphoria of what you see, you made us lectures on the left, on the right and on the role of the state. Now, you yourself in eight months don't want to hear and avoid answering. Why, Mr. Voridis? Because you no longer want a copy, you do not want a dialogue, and that is no accident. I hope, at least, that you come to the House and do not follow the practice of others. But I want to acknowledge that from the dialogue we have had all this week, you really hear something has come out of it. And we and the other parties of counter-population, and the agencies yelled, denounced, pressed and made changes. And I want to say it from a footstep of the House that I am happy, Mr. Voridis, for some of these changes. You have adopted some of the proposals that have been made to you by the institutions. You will be honoured and we will show this without a little bit of psychiatry in the written vote. But two things have happened: Or you have changed your mind, I have convinced you, that is, you have either been forced and retreated. One of them happens, both can't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u323	First one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u324	Did I convince you? I'm honored, but I don't believe it. This is a parliamentary democracy, when one has a persistent view of it, and understands that he is wrong when society and opposition show him to retreat. And that is what honors you in Parliament. This is where the new Minister of Health came by. We must all get used to the fact that this is the new Minister for Health of the Hellenic Republic. But first of all, he must realize that. Mr Ploris can no longer represent the Internet or the parliamentary troll. He is the Minister of Health of the Hellenic Republic with Greece in a pandemic crisis. There are issues here. We are in the last positions in mortality per million compared with the countries we compare. We've got a monkey's vaccinations. We read articles online about the invaders in the military hospitals. Really, what's going on in the military hospitals? How many were vaccinated? How many are there the penalties for legislating? Why has this silence fallen? Do you not understand that the decision of this framework as a whole goes back to health structures, health units and is it wrong? Finally, you must understand that we must go to other solutions, such as what they do in Europe: the family doctor, the debate of each other. Mr. Brutsis said a lot of important things. It is not here, but in any case because there is a major economic crisis, I would like to say that immediate intervention is needed at the moment to support small and medium-sized enterprises and not medium-term proposals. Let's see what the Prime Minister is going to say and see the plan of counter-population. I come to the amendments in particular. In the amendment proposed by Mr. We'll be positive, of course. Positively, the measures are fragmented, but we will be positive. On the amendment proposed by Mr Ploris, it is an indirect assumption that, with his obsession and the wrong legislature, he begins to hang and break down the ESS. Remove the overall provision and come here now that, in practice, all Members seem to be determined, we are vaccinated, to see what we are going to do with this. Don't punish yourself, don't split up and divide society! Dry the ESS in this way and create a serious problem in the operation ahead of the fourth wave that is ahead of us. Also, positive - and we will be voting in favour of it - and the amendment you are bringing here to the issues of citizenship. What does that amendment say, Mr Voridis? A lot of what we told you. It took you four months to understand it. Do you understand? We'll be positive. Thank you. And I kept the time, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u325	Thank you. Mr. Zachariadis, however, this department of health with the trolls has it over time, to know. It's a problem, we need to see it in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u326	You don't say that about Mr. Voridis who went through? Don't you throw seeds on Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Voridis knows, he'd answer right away, get the messages right away. Here you go, Mr. Cyranakis, you have the floor. He left you time and Mr. Zachariadis to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u328	First of all, you will leave me more time, Mr President, because in my protology I have not exhausted my time, I have spoken twelve out of fifteen minutes, and on the basis of the reasoning you mentioned at the beginning of the process of the rapporteurs' denology, I would ask you to add the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u329	It's true. You've got seven and two, nine and a half minutes right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the Interior Minister for adopting a number of proposals tabled by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Some of the proposals were shared with opposition parties, such as the request that this annual report on the activity of the representatives of the Parliament, the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the House, which has also tabled the Change Movement, which we support and thank you for adopting. It is right, Mr Minister - on a point of order - that the opposition parties, what they have mentioned, have made a point of order. The most characteristic example of all is what Mr Delis, my colleague from the Communist Party, has said, who asked you what this provision means that an older law continues. Why is he right? Because let us say hypothetically - which will also be realistic - that you want at some point to make an improvement in the law that we are voting on today, in the law on representation of interests. What are you gonna do? You are going to another law with an amendment to the law we are voting on today to put the better provision there. Not that it is your fault, because this is how we have decided in this Parliament to legislate. And that's absurd, and it's about all the parties. I personally - and my colleague Mr Delis will recall that from the Committee on Constitutional Revision - had then tabled a proposal. The solution is very simple, Minister: Provisions which amend existing laws must be discussed and voted on by themselves. What does that mean? What we have - let us say - today is a agenda. What does the agenda say? He says we have the law on representation of interests for lobbying. All right, we're talking about this, we're done with it, we're voting on it, and we're going down to any amendment of the law, it's about another piece of legislation. And so both the Member and the public administration and, above all, the active citizen will be able to understand exactly what this provision says is going on in an article of law, which needs to be overthrown very far back to find it. So let's get to know each other sometime. My own proposal was not accepted, ladies and gentlemen, by any party, even though it had gone through the committee procedure. It wasn't accepted. So I reintroduce it with good will to all sides. Perhaps you too, Mrs. Merra25, remember. I also sent you a note.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u331	Yeah, I remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u332	It's a first note, then. We therefore need to improve the procedure and we need to improve the procedure, because the Parliamentary channel does not follow it almost and we cannot continue to make fun of ourselves, because if we do not make the process of discussion and voting more democratic, then there will continue to be indifference and therefore, opposing phenomena, but opposing the public's perception of what we are legislating in this Chamber, whichever is in the government. That is a point of order. In reply to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Zachariadis, who personally accused me of not listening. You told me in committee and accused me of not listening. And I hear and read, Mr. Zachariadis. What do I hear and read from the official website of the International Transparency, to which you referred and said, have you argued that it is about the public's understanding of corruption that we have in our country? No, it's not about public opinion. This indicator comes out according to the report and methodology that is posted on the International Transparency website on the basis of certain specific recognised organisations. There is therefore the report for 2018. For 2018, I am going to make two specific comments, one you have said to the committee. He says the report: “In 2018 a series of scandals undermined anti-corruption efforts, including a case involving inappropriate supplies of medicinal products by the Greek Government, where former ministers and prime ministers were accused of irregularities.” A comment on the report. I'll come back. It mentions the report and adds: "In addition, the recent appointment of the head of the Hellenic Competition Commission, which supervises the implementation of antitrust legislation, raises concerns about conflicts of interest in Greece, since the nomination is a close adviser to the then Prime Minister". Mrs Thanou refers. On the first case, which we find in the report of International Transparency, who is currently involved a former minister for witness setting up, for corruption, for intervention in justice? The Minister of SYRIZA, Mr. Papagelopoulos, who even had a press by another Minister of yours, who described SYRIZA as "magaz". So don't tell us about corruption practices, when your own ministers are the ones that symbolize corruption and bad practices that we should never see in our country again!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u333	Is there a decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u334	We'll see what special courts will do, Mr. Zachariadis, for the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u335	Let's see, wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u336	And do not be proud that one is accused - you say - of breach of duty!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u337	He's being accused? Wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Pappas is accused of violation of duty! He is, of course, accused of that, so I said that we will see what special courts will do. However, I did not see you talking about other ministers who were acquitted by your own accusations as well as Mr Papastavrous, whom you had taken up on an election spot as a symbol of corruption and he was also acquitted, and we did not hear from Mr Tsipras who had committed himself to it either. This is the situation, therefore, and I am glad - and I repeat - that we have an improvement in Greece's position by nine positions in the International Anti-Corruption Index, but we must continue this work so that we can make Greece a model. The second answer outside the issue of the bill, but I must reply again: Mr Zachariadis, you charged me with a post I made in 2019 in relation to gasoline, which, unfortunately, you are right about that - the price is rising today, not only in Greece. Because you didn't want to testify for your own reasons, I'll testify for it. And I would like to ask you, to help you understand the difference between the increase in the price of petrol and the proportion of taxes paid by a citizen with the product he buys, for example, petrol. So I want you to go and get the same gasoline in your car today, if you have gasoline and then 80 euros. Do you want to do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u339	Changed? Have you changed it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u340	Good. So you're gonna get that kind of proof here, I got it, so you don't even have to spend it. So this proof, with the same type of gasoline and even though its price has indeed risen, and so with the same money you get less litres, the tax rate at EUR 80 is EUR 31,14, fuel value taxes and duties EUR 48,86. On this tweet that so much has bothered you and your comrades - I have heard it infinitely in Parliament and on the Internet - the proportion is fuel value EUR 26,11, taxes and duties EUR 53,89. I therefore make both of the evidence in the Minutes for you and your colleagues. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Kynnakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So why is that happening? Because it is another thing to blame a government for the price of gasoline or any product of an appreciation, and it is another thing to blame it for the taxes it puts on this product. I am telling you this today that excise duty on fuel may not be abolished. I am in favour of abolishing. I also think that you should consider in your criticism that from 2019 until now we have also had twenty-six reductions or abolitions of taxes on the Government of New Democracy. And for evil coincidence, I have a list of the increases or the new taxes that your government put, not you personally, because you weren't a MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u341	You're welcome, Mr. Cyranakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u342	Of course, Mr President, I shall end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u343	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u344	Your government, the Tsipras government, has therefore imposed twenty taxes or increased, twenty-six so far, in the midst of its term, has reduced or abolished the New Democracy Government. I'm presenting for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Kyanaakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm gonna need two more minutes. A brief answer to my colleague, Mera25, who has every good will and she always bring arguments and suggestions to the table. I will disagree with you on the criticism you have made of Cuba. And because it is an issue that I think the new generations need to be informed and I see an effort from the Left - not only from you, but also from SYRIZA - to project Cuba as a model country - today you said it about health, we have heard other issues - as long as corruption we all know how this communist country works. I want to tell you that the basic salary in Cuba today we are talking about is 225 Cuban pesos, that is, 8 euros. If you like it so much you on the left this country called Cuba, go see what it's like to live with 8 euros in a communist country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u345	Have you heard anything about the embargo?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u346	We'll talk about it. What the United States of America did some time ago? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u347	And not just.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u348	All right, let's talk about it. No problem. I'm open to dialogue. Mr President, I should like to close up with the main point of criticism that we have received today, which was the remodelling and that is not a matter of the matter. I think I should also reply as a Member of the European Parliament who is not a government. Yes, you are right and thank you for your words, colleagues of opposition, there are worthy members in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. There are many and worthy members and, if you like, many of them could be taken advantage of in the government too. Do you know why they're more worthy than anyone else? Because although they have not taken a position, although they have not been exploited, they will continue to fight because they believe that this government is better for Greece and will continue from here the seat of the democratic Parliament to fight with their ideas even without having a chair that others have loved in older governments. And to remind you, Mr Zachariadis, since you mentioned distances and things like this, that they were days strange when Mrs Papakostas - which I mentioned in the statement you made to me - came to your government to support it. That was not a distance, it was something else. So these are the good colleagues who live here who give the battle to be loyal to parliamentarianism because they believe that this government can do good things for Greece will continue to do so. One hundred and fifty eight we started, one hundred fifty eight we are today, and one hundred fifty eight we will continue, because that is who we are, and we are different from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u349	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for a minute to say something as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u350	Mr Kyranakis said about a proposal he tabled during the process of reviewing the constitution. So this proposal says specific things with which we fully agree. The fact that we fully agree, Mr President, that responsibility will come to you now - is seen from the fact that today we have asked for the amendment relating to articles of another law, one - an article in the amendment to be voted on separately, since it refers to specific articles of another law. It's just that thing. It's not forbidden by the Constitution. The regulation provides for this, but there has been an interpretation of vague and general terms of reference. It is therefore the responsibility of the Bureau or the Conference of Presidents to resolve the matter. I would therefore like to say at the next conference which is tomorrow and I will ask the representative of the New Democracy, Mr Kyranakis, to speak in this right direction about the part concerning the amendments, which does not need to be reviewed and which we can implement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u351	Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u352	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I should like to put forward a number of supplementary legislative proposals. There's nothing wrong with him. It is just the chapters and only the fundamental rights, that phrase - the point made by the colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u353	Also, may I ask you, Mrs. Liikali, to familiarize yourself now. It's been a while. The parliamentary procedure has these characteristics, vital. What does that mean? What we are putting forward in legislation, and indeed throughout the whole meeting, is still working on the draft legislation - I do not want to stress it - especially when it is technical. You'll see. It's nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin - since I am obviously grateful for your contribution to the drafting of the bill - and to reassure Mr Lappa. Mr. Lappas had an agony with a number of formal legal issues concerning the Ministerialisation of Mr. Stylianides. One was about the issue of naturalisation. I would like to inform him that steps have been taken to adopt the relevant Presidential Decree and that Mr Stylianides will therefore be naturalised. Also, because he raised the question that he cannot understand the position, because there is a law that requires that a year has elapsed before one can do so, let him know that he anticipated, Mr. Zachariadis, these and abolished in March 2019 by Article 47 of Law 4604 the relevant provision. So that is no longer the case, and so there is no question about it. But I am sad that I see the SYRIZA side with great concern in various respects - you will allow me to describe them - procedural issues, obviously because they recognize the value - I would say the self-worth, the self-evident value - of Mr Stylianides. I hope, of course, that something will not continue to be invoked which is not just wrong, it is unacceptable. That is to say, it is not Greek. Who? The Greek from Cyprus. So this is the fact that the Prime Minister - I will say again - a Greek of the Great Hellenism, a great Greek of the Great Hellenism, should be pleased to see us and not be treated in the way that is being dealt with. The second thing I wanted to say - before I got to the bill - is that if you listened to the debate on various issues, I listened to and described a picture of disaster, that here the country is being destroyed, the government - I heard - is on a run-by, with ten - fifteen units of difference from the second party, the government is on a run, but it seems that they did not fall into your sense and the latest economic data and data, because these were made public by ELSTAT. 16.2% GDP growth, 17.1% improvement in goods, services 26.8% increase in exports, investments in the last six months are the largest in the last decade from 2012 to 20.21. So these are the data that have been published now. This disastrous scenery that one heard from the opposition parties, where is it? Obviously, some of this position, this attitude, is also an explanation of why these rhetorical crowns have no correlation at the level of the political resonance and influence of the Officership. Because when you describe an image that is not real, which is not there, then you are in disparity with society. And that's what happened today with this bill. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if you have noticed. It is usually the government that is struggling to justify the necessity of a bill. We spent days with the Opposition trying to explain why it does not coincide with the government in this bill. This bill has put counter-population in a difficult position. It is easy to support the government and it is difficult to justify the refusal by the Opposition. That means it's a good bill, it's a good bill for society, and instead of doing the easy thing, you say it's a good bill - it's not a bad bill, it doesn't mean that you were identified with the government - you chose to disagree. Let's see what this bill does. Four things do this bill: First, it introduces - the first in Greek legal order - regulation on the activity of influence on institutional bodies, the so-called lobbying. Secondly, it introduces - the first in Greek legal order - a gift policy for government officials and for the Presidency of the Republic. I should like to thank, once again, the President of the Parliament and the President of the Republic for her contribution to this chapter. Thirdly, it introduces - the first, after a long time - the abolition of derogations from the mobility system. And fourthly, it introduces - firstly in the Greek legal system - the integration of fixed-term contracts into the recruitment procedure, under the PHS 33 procedure, which we say, the adoption of the Ministerial Council's act, so that recruitment can be planned and controlled by fixed-term contracts. These four things, mostly, do this bill. He has other provisions, obviously, but these four things he does. And I'm coming to ask to understand the disagreement. The opposition tells us: "Ah, you bring the provisions for lobbying, these are necessary, but we who, over the years, have seen the necessity, seem to recognize it today, but we have not brought the provisions, now we believe that the provisions are not bold enough. They had to be more bold." Yes, sir. And why didn't you bring them the boldest, so that we could have a good question so long, Mr. Zachariadis? Why didn't you bring more boldness? They're just us. Why weren't you brave and leaning to bring the bolder provisions? It's been five years, you've been crashing in the corruption index. Didn't you bring them the boldest ones to climb two? Oh, we didn't do it. And so they come now and make criticism. Yes, sir. But I am a good man and a deeply parliamentary and want to hear criticism. And I heard criticism from the New Democracy wing, with the productive proposals of my colleagues, but also from the wards of counter-population. And what did you tell me? You said to me: 'You know, missing from the bill, it's not good, because you have excluded public procurement'. Did I have exceptions to public contracts? I got her an exception. You said to me, 'it is not good because the institutional bodies are not some'. I have explained to you that the institutional bodies are absolutely some. I read this provision to you. You said to me, 'yes, but we see that you are restricting the institutions when they leave. That is, if a minister loses his post, you limit him not to lobbying for eighteen months, but you only restrict him to the sector." In short, Voridis won't do lobbying when he's not only a minister on matters of the Ministry of the Interior. And you told me, "You need to generalize it." I generalized it. You said to me "yes, but you didn't put the husbands, the wives, the cohabitants." I put it. Then you say to me, 'yes, but you know that issue of the criminal situation we had to do it in detail'. I told you, I think that the detailed description has a problem because it always leaves the risk of remaining offenders and you are always exposed to the risk of lack of proportionality. "Yes" you say to me, "but you know, the sentence of twenty-four months, two years, can be diligent. Make it tighter." I'm outta here. I put it in eighteen months. Then you said to me that 'you know, you have not involved Parliament in this process, you must involve it'. And I have put everything that is deposited in the register in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. "Yes" you say to me, "but you have not made the institutional bodies come out to say it too, to have an obligation to register and register in the transparency register, but you have only put the lobbies." I also put in the institutions. After that, where do you disagree? For there remains the disagreement from now on, "You haven't put my in-house lobbyists in my house." Why, if I ask you, do you want me to put inside and the clubs that they're lobbies and clubs that they're lobbies and trade unions that they're lobbies and church that they're lobbies and hunting clubs, i.e., and the environmental clubs that they're lobbies? Then you will tell me most of you 'no, we have not said so!' So to reach agreement. Where's the difference now? That is why I am telling you that you have suddenly, once again, been in the known position. What's the known location? I am voting against internal control. What's the known location? I am voting against teleworking. What's the known location? I am voting against the entire Greek competition for the AAP. What's the known location? It is that with what you are voting on, you are shaking how reactionary you are, how unable to understand and collide in self-evident things and how much to have reason to exist - because that is why you understand your reason for being through a disagreement - you need to build ghosts of disagreement. Let's go to Chapter 2: Gift policy. Did you have any objections? I didn't hear anyone. Zero. So in the First Chapter, especially after the parliamentary procedure... Then note that the objections were left in something of a procedural type "Why didn't you listen to Vouliwatch" and "Why didn't you make a nomadic" and "Why you didn't get more involved with the bodies". Answer: all this has been done by the National Transparency Authority, which has contributed to making the provisions as far as possible. The contact has therefore been made. All the rest was taken into account such as the views at the consultation stage and, of course, their views were also taken into account at the stage of the parliamentary procedure. So now what are these? It is allegedly procedural and terminological to say, because there is no substantial disagreement. Gift policy: Political disagreement? Oh, no. Let's get to the derogations. I said four things. I'm in third. What are we talking about in the derogations? Yes or no? Is that good to narrow them down? Is it good to strengthen the integrity of the mobility system? Is it right or is it wrong? Now listen to the appreciation: 'Yes, but you don't all break them all'. Fortunately Zachariadis didn't tell me that, who's put most of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u354	We brought the system. Stop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u355	SYRIZA, not Zachariadis. We did not have the pleasure of being here in the previous parliament, voting for them too. So who would say that while from 2016 onwards while SYRIZA has voted for a mobility system, from this mobility system that SYRIZA voted for, he has started and wasted it with a number of exceptions, many, reaching the two hundred and sixty so many? And what are we coming today? We come and collect this system and limit it. Do you object to that, ladies and gentlemen? How will you stand against this provision? 'Yes, but why didn't you abolish it?' The answer is why it still serves one necessity. If you want to talk about one, one and the ones that we maintain, we are delighted to tell you the logic of each one. So what are you going to do about it? You'll agree. You must agree. There can be no disagreement on rational reconstruction, on what it had gone through for rospheric reasons in part and on others who are in real need. The criticism I have heard - fortunately, it has not been repeated, it has not been repeated - is that these abolitions we are allegedly doing are photographic in order to be able to make transfers, keep the transfers, of those who have moved over SYRIZA. Hey, they never said it again! The one they said, the one they took it back. That's all packed up. They had done a nice story. The most beautiful thing, though, is that these issues of integrity are raised by SYRIZA. Mr Zachariadis, I am addressing you as a representative of SYRIZA and not personally, has a nice article that is very friendly to you "The Constitutional Newspapers" - which Mr Konordos has signed wide. He was a member of the AACC appointed over your days 2016-2018. So the House approved him with the then composition which, in any case, would not have happened without your own partnership. Read to see what he denounces about the hybrid that he accepted from the then competent Minister of the Interior when he disagreed with the choices made by your government at the time to mobilize the 3K. To see who intervened and who did not intervene, to see who supports integrity and who does not support it, to see who was the one taking the counsellors. Next time you yelled at me because we did not find the majority - it says - we did not make a majority with you. We made a majority of the Change Movement. As if we had any obligation from the Constitution in this respect. But now I say: who raises issues of integrity? The person who raised the phone and found the members of the AACC because they were not in agreement with the view of the government majority! And I'm going to the fourth place, Mr. President. The fourth and fundamental thing that this law does is that it puts a class in the system of hiring the so-called IPOs. In other words, fixedterm private law contracts. To date, was there something like that? Oh, no. How was that decided? It was decided at the request of the institution, the approval of the Minister of the Interior. What do we do for the first time? We put a limit, we streamline these recruitments, we want to match them with real needs which justify fixed-term contracts - and therefore they do not conceal other relationships but clean up the landscape - and yes, we want to put a limit on these contractors. Most of them relate to periodic needs, to seasonal needs, which can be planned. They don't have spectacular variations. What, then, does this government that did not do so before? It comes to these recruits to put a limit on themselves, a rule to integrate them into recruitment planning. Why didn't you, Mr. Zachariadis? Why didn't your government do it? Why didn't any previous government do it? Because you wanted to take everyone, wherever, in any way. So this government comes and does this. What are you going to say? To be reasonable, to be internally consistent. We're limiting ourselves. Until now, he had no one. There was no number. There was no limit. There was no programming. We are therefore putting the rule in place for regular staff in programming to also apply to this staff. In fact, with a clause next year to reduce it by 10%. So what's the answer here? You don't? Yes, but if you do not say 'no' to any of them, then why are we sitting here and discussing all these objections, which you are creating, ladies and gentlemen, of the Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Dispute Because that is exactly what is self-evident. And these self-evident things the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis does, and that is why he has the acceptance of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, for that is precisely why he expresses the right word. And I think Mr Zachariadis has made an attempt and ideological analysis of the coexistence of Stylianides as something central left-wing or central, I don't know, and I don't know, and I'm guessing you're ex-Lepenikos, right-wing, I don't know that you characterize me, it doesn't matter what you call me. However, because it is resurrecting you, I would like to tell you that this analysis makes me happy. It shows that you are far from night, you do not understand what is happening at international level in politics, internally, and you do not understand the conditions with which the real fronts are being formed today. You've been left in an analysis at the best '50s case. Can you not see that today large and central currents are forming in international policy, which they are uniting? They unite two major concepts. And now you're going to move them out there who was semantic and who was popular right and who was moderately right while the real big issues are other. The big issues are: who will defend freedom, who will raise the economy, who will have institutional guarantees for the real functioning of democracy, who will have a structured policy on citizens' rights, who will have a structured policy to limit unreasonable immigration, who will be able to guarantee the law and order and the security of citizens. That's what we're getting together at programme level, Mr. Zachariadis. And we're not gonna sit down and see if A had that particular political route or B had another one. What is it that unites us? It is a political programme for reform and reconstruction of the country. As long as you don't understand that, which you don't understand, why you don't even have the methodological tools to analyze it and understand it, so much the best for us, why you won't have a structured answer. Proof of this is also your stance in this bill, which is determined by the opposition needs of the moment and not by positions of principle, consistency, logic of sequence, of public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u356	Thank you. The debate is being declared late...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u358	Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u359	It is clear and I believe that your Bureau will tolerate it, as far as I am concerned, at a personal level of clarification. I've never learned to deal with the Minister like this. In fact, I told him with respect to his face my political observations. The Minister has used various arguments in this respect, both politically and personally. He also talked about familiarization. He said that "you should, Mrs Liikali, get acquainted with the process." Mr Voridis, I wish, as long as I am in here, that I will never get acquainted with your own procedure and never get acquainted with your own form of parliamentaryism, for which you celebrate many times and say: 'I am a deep parliamentary'. In reality, however, the truth is one and shines. You're currently bringing us legislative improvements, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u360	I've got another one for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u361	Do you have another one? Break the banquet, then! Mr President, that is all I have to say. You're not telling the truth, Minister, when you say you're only correcting title. It is not a title that you are correcting, for example when you delete the phrase 'via NRV' in Article 25(4). So you're not telling the whole truth. As far as what you have tried to insult me, saying about familiarity I wish as much as I am, like you if I grow old and get to you, that I never get to know what you're doing and what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u363	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u364	The conversation's not over. We were given this fine opportunity by my colleague. I would like to put forward another piece of legislation, Mr President, because the government wants to rethink the provisions of Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure. It is a good thing, Mr President, that it is a good thing that we have a good deal of time and a good deal of time in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u367	Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u368	In view of the latter, should the meeting be suspended a little while to see exactly what has happened with this legislative work?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u369	Share the withdrawal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u370	Let's see it a little, Minister, let's know what we're voting on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u371	Excuse me, just a minute. It's all going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u372	It's a disgraceful piece of legislation. Upstairs, you fight us, and then you legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u373	Wait a minute. I would ask you very much to share the legislative improvement. What the Minister has submitted is that he withdraws Article 5.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u374	A week's legislation is a disgrace to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u375	I understand my fellow Members that we have to say something now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u376	What are you serious about? All opposition is shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u377	Don't shout. Be happy and quiet. As you can see, however, there is no object of discussion on withdrawal. When the legislative matter is removed, what are you going to discuss with the removal of the legislative matter? It is the Government's discretion to withdraw something that it considers should be withdrawn. So it's over. Is there any question on this? What can you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u378	We didn't want to say anything, we wanted to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u380	I would ask the rapporteurs to withdraw the amendment. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u381	Mr President, the withdrawal of the whole article and of the whole amendment have no objection. But it's not about that. The Minister has spoken last and you said that the Minister's speech concludes the procedure. Mr President, when you gave the floor to the Minister, it was assumed that the Minister's speech would complete the procedure. So at the time when he went out, he said: "Take some other changes of legislation and get acquainted with you, Mrs Liikanouli." That was inappropriate, Minister. You know how much I respect you and I appreciate you. You need to get it back. Your attitude to Mrs. Lykoulis was inappropriate. In fact, when you know that you were the last speaker and we had no right to talk, if the procedure were to be followed, about the legislative improvements you have made. And you said: "You have to get used to the process that we will bring legal improvements and you will not have the right to speak, to familiarize yourself." No, Minister. The personal insult to Mrs. Likoli, you need to get her back. The political part is talking about it. I, too, accept the withdrawal at the last minute - it is the government's right, as you rightly said - and the issue of legislators if they were only formal. It's not just formal. They have a substance regardless of whether we agree or not. You must have the ability to take the floor to speak. So you shouldn't bring them in at the last minute. So that's not the normal procedure, that's where you were wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u383	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u384	First of all, let me make it clear that I had no intention of touching anyone. It seems to me, however, that I did not at all touch on anyone. What did I say? I did not begin to say anything to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten - and, in her speech, I said this, that the procedure will come to an end as soon as the President says that I have terminated the debate. As long as the President has not said that this debate has not ended. The debate does not end with the Minister's speech. So since discussion and processing continue, the correct procedural procedure, Mr Colleague, you are well aware that it is what I am saying. As the debate has not ended and the President has given the floor, if he considers it, to Mrs Liikanen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u385	We're talking about law-abiding...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u386	So the debate is closed with the President's phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u387	For the vote we want the scarce.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u388	Don't go on with it. We'll hang up with Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u389	We want to get to the vote!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u390	It's been distributed, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u391	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u392	I'm being informed that Mrs. Lykoulis has it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u393	He doesn't have the second one. The second one has a state-of-the-art.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u394	How the bill is shaped. If you want formalities, you'll have the formalities, Mr. Voridis. Please, the instant, and you know what I mean, the bill as it is formed after the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u396	You see, Mr Voridis, what is being created in Parliament. You see what your curiosity creates, your knees, and especially your arrogance, Mr. Vorides. The whole Opposition, after all. And imagine that you're making concessions and we're going to vote for articles. Because all you're interested in, Mr. Voridis, is to go up to the Step of the House and give a show. I really want to congratulate you on this analysis you have done in the end. Because I thought - but I would sit down to think about it, you might be right - that in the government of Mr Mitsotakis you had gathered a number of ten modernists, five from the Potami, a dozen from Mr Samaras, ten new-right, one from the former JRC, for authority and for the spoon, but you dressed it ideologically. Mr Voridis, do not underestimate neither Parliament nor the institutions nor the opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u397	This is the "SYRIZ - ANEL" you describe!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u398	I didn't interrupt anyone, Mr. Golden. Your arrogance reminds you of 1789's social mobility days. Do you remember what happened then? The people had no bread, and Maria Antoinette told him to eat pancakes after two years of the destruction of agricultural production. So stop playing "Marie Antoinettes" of 2021 and honor Parliament and the institutions. Stop going with the polls because you got 39.5% in the last election. Do you want me to remind you how much you took in the last and the last? What do you think? That the world is a fold and Mr. Mitsotakis is a shepherd and has it delimited? After what you're doing, Mr. Voridis, you're going to ask, you're going to have to escape. And I tell you here, in Parliament, in the temple of democracy. You will see the polls and you will cry, because the world has not said its last word, and he writes the result, not the polls, and not your crescendo of arrogance from the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u399	How many times have I heard this in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u400	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Strengthening transparency and accountability to state institutions, restoring the integrity of the Single Mobility System and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior". We shall now vote on the articles of the amendments and on the whole, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, twenty-eight articles, three amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u401	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u402	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u403	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Strengthening transparency and accountability to the Institutions of the State, restoring the integrity of the Single Mobility System and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole of the articles and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u405	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-07-S1-commons.u406	With the agreement of the House at 20.04; the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 8 September 2021 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, in accordance with the special agenda; and (b) legislative work: 1) sole discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Definition of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement on the Bilateral Development Assistance Partnership between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Albania, signed in Athens on 20 December 2001" and 2) on the basis of the articles and resolutions of the whole of the draft law: "Preparation of the Agreement on the expiry of the bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union", in accordance with the supplementary agenda.
