ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are on the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Introduction to higher education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading of the academic environment and other provisions'. At its meeting on 4 February 2021, the Conference of Presidents decided to discuss bills in two to a maximum of three single meetings on principle, articles and amendments. In particular, the discussion of the draft law is proposed to take place in a natural presence by the MPs in twelve cycles that will include speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. If, however, one wishes to participate through a teleconferencing, one will be able to do so following information from the Group's Parliamentary and Legislative Directorate, so that the Webex link can be sent to him and so that it can be placed after the speeches of the Members present in Parliament have been completed. It is also noted that for reasons of health protection speakers should leave the Chamber after their speech, as decided in the Conference of Presidents, while when political leaders receive the floor, the limit of 50, at the same time, present Members will be strictly respected at the plenary sitting, representing their parliamentary groups as follows: twenty-six from the New Democracy, four from the Change Movement Movement, two from the Communist Party of Greece, two from the Greek Solution and two from the Mera25. It is noted that if speaking times are not strictly respected you will be deprived of your colleagues' right to speak, given that the debate will be concluded on Thursday by voting. So the vote will take place on Thursday. The debate will therefore take three days. The names of the speakers have already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the Office has drawn up the list to be distributed to you. Addendums will not be accepted except for mutual changes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, I would like to say that objections of unconstitutionality have been raised. An objection to anti-constitutionalism was first tabled by the Change Movement, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. You'll be distributed. I don't read it because it's dotted. An objection of anti-constitutionality was then filed by Mera25. And she'll be distributed to you. And finally, SYRIZA objected to unconstitutionalism. They will therefore be distributed to you. It is customary for the debate to take place after the speeches of the two rapporteurs and of the three special speakers have been completed. Those who want to prepare themselves to have time for the rapporteurs to prepare themselves on objections. It will, however, take place after the end of the speech by the rapporteurs and special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u4	Here you go, Mr. Skourlet. Are you asking for the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like to take the floor on an issue that precedes the submission of unconstitutional applications. Since this morning there has been a statement by the relevant Minister for Health that it is very likely that he will recommend a universal lockdown in Attica. That is what you realise to be creating new data for all of us, but it also creates the bill we are discussing at the moment. We have repeatedly argued that for critical bills, which create different approaches, I should like to say on a voluntary basis - not to say that they work divisively - we must take into account the conditions that are created and therefore, I recommend that the House take a decision to freeze the debate on the education bill. We cannot go to such suggestions, which are most likely to be accepted for health reasons, and have the requirement to discuss for two, three days a bill that will surely be accompanied by demonstrations, from conflicts where responsibility for what happens to the government will have with its obsessions. I think, therefore, even at the very last moment, that the government should freeze this process. It's a matter of social responsibility, it's a matter of protecting public health. In any case, there is a responsibility on all of us. We can agree on this. There is no reason to test the strengths of society and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u6	This is a point of order, but the views of everyone will be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u8	Madam Minister, you have the floor on a point of order and on a request, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, all colleagues. First of all, about what Mr. Skourlets has said. Alas, Mr. Skourletis, if your proposal is to lock this House down and not legislate because of the pandemic. It would be the biggest threat to democracy. The fact that dialogue is continuing with institutions, continues among the Members, is continuing among the political parties, is precisely proof of how strong our democracy is. One point, although I understand that we will then discuss the issue of objections. As you have seen, the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which not only points out no unconstitutionality, but also underlines the state's obligation to ensure the safety and protection of individuals and infrastructure at universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u10	Other...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u11	I'll tell you, Mr. Philly, because I'm saying that. So the Scientific Service does not point to unconstitutionality. However, I would like to inform the House that we are making legislative improvements to individual issues in the bill, such as some comments on disciplinary matters, on personal data, which will be given as soon as possible to Members. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, as everyone knows everywhere in the world, education is perhaps the most important aspect of a country's social life, a favoured state. Is it, in our view, an indication of the intriguing situation in which the rule of New Democracy has taken the country as a whole, of the fact that we are now being called upon to discuss and finally decide on such an important area of people's life as education, in what circumstances, Mr President? With high school closed. To understand that, it means that in some areas the teleconferencing conference on the subject is working well and in others not. So not all children have been prepared in an equal manner for the upcoming exams. Also, at the moment, precisely because of the circumstances that Mr Skourletis has put in, with the society in Lockdown, it is impossible for anyone - every time he tries to protest, the police are killing him - to show his opposition to what the government is trying to legislate. In short - and I will end here - on such an important issue, without anything going on in the country, we are entirely in agreement with the view that the debate should be postponed at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I will only address myself to the specific issue raised by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, not to the objections of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u16	However, unconstitutionalism will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u17	Yes, Mr. President. We believe that Parliament is the heart of democracy and, as it has been working all this time, it must continue. The pandemic isn't a holiday, so she sat the bill on a holiday, we could take it one day later. For a year now, we've been afflicted with this. So we think that as you legislate and take part all this time, the process must continue. That's the first. Secondly, to discuss a bill that is important for education is not the case, but are the conditions appropriate to call on rallys and protests by thousands of peoples and peoples, to conspire outside and protest and be health bombs? So there's no pandemic there? Is there a pandemic for Parliament alone to discuss? Because it is a very serious and three-day process, I suggest that we look at the substance, leave the pretexts aside and start immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Pafilis from the Communist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u19	We have said that this is a challenge before. What you are doing - and I will use a heavy expression - is the least immoral, not to use anything else. A year the universities are closed. A year! Students and, in general, the educational community are in a new state, in front of a computer, with schools that open up and are on each other without substantial health protection measures. And while all this is happening, you come, Minister - the government, because it is not a matter of one person - and you overthrow the lives of millions of people with these bills. We didn't say that the House would stop. However, bills of such importance cannot come within general pandemic and within all these measures you have taken. It is a challenge - and I reply to Mr Heta too - to say that democracy is only within Parliament. The people do not have the right to say their opinion, do they have the right to protest, do they not have the right to protest? And you come here - we'll tell you - with a survey with a set of questions and say to us, "Society agrees with us", while all the educational community - parents, students, university teachers, middle school, higher education, higher education - is against exceptions, you come here with nothing, so I want, not just authoritarian, but much worse, I say - a way toward the people. You don't tell me, Mr. Heta, when everyone's life is overthrown and everyone's life is seriously overthrown when 30% of students live outside the universities...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u20	Mr Pafile, please address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u21	When the police enter the universities, when all this happens, doesn't people have the right to protest? Why don't you leave it for later? Why are you in such a hurry? You do, beyond your strategy, precisely for that reason, as do all the governments of the previous, Mr Skourletis and gentlemen of PASOK -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u22	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u23	Don't rush, and don't scratch yourself in the sack. All governments, with few exceptions, have brought overturns and major changes either in the summer, in August - the Diamantopoulou Act - or the Great Week - the Gabroglou Law, Mr Skourletis, to get to know each other well - which was closed by universities and schools as a whole. But what is happening today goes beyond any precedent. We're telling you to drop it. We've been talking about it all along. Do you want to bring it? Bring it, when things calm down, and when other conditions come, that can be better discussed and discussed, but most importantly, people express their opinion. And you have a responsibility. Whatever happens, you have a responsibility. You can't enforce us military law because you want to. You cannot have spent a hundred and thirty laws, most of which are very serious, in pandemic conditions. And you're telling us about democracy? What do you want people to do? Being locked up in his homes just and especially with such a crush on his rights? We're saying that you're going to pay for this very expensive. And let go of the health bombs. Tell us today - to tell any Minister - how many factories and large workplaces you have carried out checks and what fines you have put in. In how many public transport, which is becoming a mess and which all the studies say, the two health bombs are the workplaces of work and public transport...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Paphie, this is actually...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u25	You'll be responsible for what happens. If you think you're gonna shut our mouths, you're making a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I fully respect the concern expressed by my colleagues in relation to the situation in education and the situation in the universities. And, I would say, I fully respect the reasoning that the current degraded situation is in contrast to the government's rush to vote on this particular bill, which comes in a way and through procedures that do not help to address the problem properly. I would even say that Mr Pafilis has made the right proposal to withdraw the bill - it is a reasonable proposal - to make a better draft than what is currently in existence. However, I am separating it from the functioning of the House. In any event, for any reason that Parliament, in my opinion, must discuss, decide, proceed, and with all the political controversies that we have about anything that has to do with this. Others the "remove the bill" and the "do not discuss today where there is a definite situation". Everyone can appreciate it and tell their opinion about it. I think, however, that Parliament's functioning should not be suspended under any circumstances and for no reason whatsoever.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u28	Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, thank you very much. We are closing down in an entire year in an environment that is unprecedented for the country, but also for the whole world, an environment which, because of the pandemic, has brought great difficulties, great problems in society, in the economy and in the House itself, Mr Skourletis. Nevertheless, the legislative initiatives of the government, the policies and actions which we have developed all year round have kept Greece, our country in an adventurous position compared with the rest of the world. We have also kept society - I use a common term that all parties are used to - and the economy upright. Above all, however, Mr President, what this government has shown is that, especially in the functioning of democracy through Parliament, democracy has stood up. We kept legislating. It has been possible for social, political and parliamentary dialogue a whole year. This is indeed an honour for both the President of Parliament and Parliament's institutions and for the parties, which have contributed to the functioning of parliamentaryism in our country. Today, Mr President, we have before us a critical, important, reformative bill, a bill that will change the country and its future, the bill proposed by the Minister of Education...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u30	This is a matter of substance, Mr Brutsi. I'll talk to you later. It's a matter of substance, it's not a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u31	That is what I am saying, Mr President. ...and which is crucial to the future of the country. As far as the bill is concerned, then, neither should its debate nor its vote be interrupted. And we see no reason either on the substance - because a whole year, at different phases and pandemics, parliamentary dialogue was kept - not to discuss and not to go ahead with the process. So - and to the credit of the Change Movement - Parliament's institutional function must continue. There's no reason to stop. And one more thing: It's challenging on behalf of SYRIZA, while proposing the suspension of the House, the SYRIZA rapporteur or the SYRIZA Parliamentary...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u32	We didn't talk about a break in the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u33	...to speak of conflicts and war on the sidewalks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Skourletis, please don't interrupt. Everyone says their views here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u35	In other words, note SYRIZA’s contradiction: On the one hand, it says that the debate in this House should be interrupted, that its operation should be frozen, that the bill should not come and, on the other hand, that it should call on the people to protest and war on the sidewalks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. We have three parties objecting to anti-constitutionalism, which is the major, and which are over-covered by what has been said. You will be given the opportunity to develop them further during the debate on objections to constitutionality. The role of the legislative body is different now and we move on to the debate on the substance with the first rapporteur, Mrs Papakostas Catherine, from New Democracy. Mrs Papacosta has the floor for 15 minutes. Generally speaking, I say this because there are too many speakers, I would ask that the time be respected. Of course, the rapporteurs from a custom prevailed in speaking a little more. Here, Mrs Papakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, Minister, Mr Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the man who put his seal on the educational reform of modern Greece was the great teacher Evangelos Papanoutsos, as he drafted a law that was innovative for his time and for the educational and socio-political data he was asked to face. And he relied on his efforts in the spirit of another great teacher and teacher of Alexander Delmuzos, who had a strong presence in the educational things of the country in the early twentieth century. The higher education reform was a station and a reference point for the country's educational system, not only for the innovations it introduced, but mainly because it effectively fought years' mentalities, which were a brake on the real education and education of young people in the country. And for this reason, when it was introduced to the first post-multiple parliament, Prime Minister Constantine Karamanlis and Minister of Education Georgios Rallis, for the first time, agreed to and voted in favour of an educational bill. The political forces at the time, with the climate of consensus they have shaped, have actually become a social cheque, which called on them to legislate, looking at the future, and on the basis of the real demands of the new generation, and by shaping all the necessary parameters to implement the educational project away from political purposes and party interests. In this highly reformative, but above all, in a social context, this legislative initiative on the introduction of higher education, on the protection of academic freedom and on the upgrading of the academic environment, aims, on the one hand, at modernising the model of introduction to higher education and, on the other, at eliminating the pathogenesis which the academic institutions of the country are afflicting over time. With a strong political will, therefore, but also a political decision, we are taking the political responsibility of effective reforms of modernization and of upgrading all education in our country. And we dare nowadays finally put a definitive end to the chronic nuisances of our educational system that keeps it captive, unscrupulous and problematic yesterday. Unfortunately, however, with their attitude so far, opposition parties are not standing up to the circumstances, as they stick to ideologies and visas by means of deformative lenses actually exercise a micro-political tool by providing the area of education for parties and voters. The area of education, however, requires a national consensus and can no longer be a field of political controversy. Society requires all of us to decide the future of our children and not to stick to past controversy, which no influential influence has on their dreams and concerns. Why would you join us, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, and especially of the Officer? You are accusing us of all these days of discussing the bill on the relevant committees that we are supposed to be in front of an institutional diversion, that it is a duno dictatorial, an Orguelian and Louis fantasy, a threat to democracy that will be framed directly as soon as you receive authority. So you say, first of all, that by this bill we are supposed to abolish the selfishness of university institutions in this matter. And one wonders how this can be done when the minimum level of introduction is set by each university section as a percentage of the average performance of all candidates in the same scientific field, thereby ensuring that the academic conditions of successful study and early completion are met, that the prestige of university studies is shielded, especially - and this is most important - by the possibility of each department to shape its particular academic knowledge? How is it true that you are talking about smuggling rights and extremism of our young people from public education and education, when in the process of completing the computing document in 10% of all sections of each scientific field for applicants from general high school and up to 20% for candidates from professional high school and after the first stage of the announcement by the non-enterprises will take part in the second phase in which their choices will be unlimited? How can you deceive and treat as second-class students candidates who choose to introduce into vocational education whose structures we recently upgraded, linking them to the real needs of society and the labour market? How can this really be the case, when this draft law allows one candidate to submit two computerised, one for the introduction through pan-Hellenic examinations to the universities of the country and one for the introduction to public IEK by means of a dismissal and other criteria laid down, thus highlighting the existence of alternative professional choices based on the inclinations, skills and preferences of the candidates? Why do you not recognise the fact that, along with the introduction of a maximum period of study, special care is taken for the workers of the disabled, but also for those who have a serious health ratio in their own or their first degree relatives? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the entire first axis of the bill creates a protective grid for candidates, strengthens academic conditions for admission to universities, underlines alternative routes and choices, and in any case stimulates students who really want to complete their studies to do so within a reasonable period of time that does not depreciate their degree and the hard work they have done. But most of all it finally introduces innovation into forming the university institutions of the country autonomously by establishing the minimum import base shaped by the respective university department. And I cannot help expressing my enormous surprise at the time when there was a lot of mention by the SYRIZA speakers at the University of Oxford and wondering what part of the Oxford University when it required - if necessary - for the introduction of the examinations, would there be the possibility of introducing a student candidate with a rating below the base? And in any case, do we really want education in our country? This should be our vision of education, should candidates be introduced into HEIs by ratings ‘0.6’, ‘0.9’ and ‘3.1’ in ‘20’, be subject to university courses with an average of 3.6’, ‘4.2’ and ‘6’ in ‘20’? Does anyone really think that this entrant will complete their studies and how will they manage to work, since according to an OECD survey of 2020 it is estimated that 37% of Greeks are graduated mostly from their undergraduate just before the age of 30? Do we really have the right to continue to blind and torrentialise worldwide, when the percentage of graduates per year on registered students in Greece, according to EUROSTAT figures, is still 9.17% for 2018, when the European average is stable at 24%? Can we really be below Romania, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Croatia, even neighbouring Turkey? Although further, do you honestly believe that in public universities in the developed countries of the European Union, which we have as a standard and reference point, students have the opportunity to study for unlimited time? Do you ignore the fact that according to the current system in several public universities in Western Europe, when a student fails to achieve one year's study periods, is it obliged to repeat the academic year? Do you have the impression that he can do this unlimitedly? It is now time to ask ourselves what kind of academic education we really want to have in our country and let everyone at last assume their responsibilities. Your polite obsession with private colleges at a time when the debate in Parliament relates to a draft law on public education is a great example of the poverty of your arguments. Your reference to the University of Oxford, however, was not of course related to the existing academic processes and procedures there, but focused artificially solely on the burning question of the safety and security of university institutions. However, one would expect from the views of all the speakers of the Greater and Elassian Representation that, since you do recognise the security problem that exists in some of the country's university institutions, you are now ready to agree on the deep areas needed to defend academic freedom, the academic environment, particularly in the major university institutions in the country. Instead of that, you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially the Officers, are using biscuit rhetoric and you are cultivating polarization conditions within university institutions, for only voting reasons. And in order to prevent even at the last hour your popular degradation, you use the sacred good of education in the light of your micro-party interests, devoting to the real needs of our students. However, the student movement, which you constantly invoke and strive to be peculiar, is not fortunately attached to the false biased political dilemmas of the last century and to the political divisions that you put and which our democratic society has now locked in in history. Agonautics for the quality of his studies, the safety of his presence in university institutions, the possibility of taking part in university events without stumbling blocks, obstacles to exogenous, violence and lawlessness, the smooth realisation and completion of his studies, the interconnection of diplomas with the labour market and, in particular, the prospect of exploiting his studies in the labour market of his country, but not of being forced to emigrate abroad. The attack, therefore, and the subsequent public permeation of the Dean of the Economic University of Athens, Mr. Dimitrios Bourantonis, was undoubtedly the drop that broke out of the glass for violence and infraction in the spaces of the university institutions. In attending, however, over the last few weeks with very great interest, but also astonishing to say all the public debate about the forthcoming provisions of this bill, I have identified some reasonable questions that I shall put directly and which are clearly rhetoric. When some people talk about a university self-interest, constitutionally guaranteed in Article 16(5), do they not know that another thing about self-interest and another thing about the autonomy of their space? They do not know that the entire Greek territory, the entire Greek territory, is policed in an equal manner and in no part of the Greek territory does the jurisdiction of Greek justice cease, i.e. the public prosecutor's jurisdiction, and so where the prosecutor has jurisdiction and the police have jurisdiction? And, in any case, why should the self-interest of universities be a principle which is more proactive than also guaranteed constitutional individual freedoms? How many individual freedoms of those working or studying at the HEIs should be jeopardised so that the so-called unlimited constitutional self-resident of the HEIs is not harmed? On the basis of Article 64 of Law 4623/2019 academic freedom does not only relate to freedom of research and teaching and to freedom of expression and movement of ideas? Do these activities have anything to do with police operations on the basis of this bill? Does this not refer to university safety, prevention, prevention and prevention of infringements? Is the university an asylum of ideas or even illegal acts? But isn't it every square millimeter of a democratic country? Shouldn't illegal acts be persecuted wherever they happen? Is there really a self-interest in illegality? Are there any places where violence and destruction are allowed? If the state is aware of the outcome that in some public places students, teachers or facilities should be at risk, or should not be protected? Is there any doubt today that in some universities there is smell and tension in the atmosphere of violence? Is there really anyone in this Chamber who believes that any university in Europe suffers the infringement of any of our universities? Is there even one person who believes that if anything of this happened to any university in Europe, would the police take action within the universities? Indeed, can the argument that in a rule of law confrontation in the HEIs actually take place even on unconventional terms? And who will define the limits of unconventional controversy and to whose discretion? Aren't those who use the anti-contractual means? And for a minute, is the cultivation of science compatible with the possibility of exercising physical violence by unconventional students and others acting willingly, but is it not compatible with the possibility of preventing and combating physical violence by trained police officers and special guards from the Ministry of Civil Protection, who will act under the law and be accountable to that? Can universities, in fact, act preventatively, prevent or even suppress infraction on their own? Since 1982, however, various models of autonomy have been tested in the university community and they have all failed. Rectors, teachers, and even the Roman student movement, during Mr. Gavroglou, proved inappropriate over time to defend legality in some universities in their schools. Ladies and gentlemen, the measures provided for in this bill are a barrier to any form of infringement brought to the Greek universities. We are therefore establishing a holistic plan tailored to the needs and specificities of each HEI provides for the controlled and secure entry into the premises of each university institution, the establishment of a security and security unit, which is subject to the dean and is managed by IGC members, as well as the Security and Protection Committee set up by the conventions with a role as rapporteur for preventive measures, including the awareness of students and staff in matters of security and crisis management. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need your tolerance. Thank you. However, the treatment of criminal acts can only be carried out by the university protection team composed of special guards, who, outside the three-month training they will receive, will continue to be trained due to their distinctive role, a group of different philosophy focused on monitoring and ensuring the proper functioning of the HEIs in full cooperation with the Rectorian authorities, without carrying firearms, which will be placed in university institutions that find legal and criminal acts, with the aim solely of preventing, preventing and protecting university spaces from committing criminal offences. To be clear, and all the technical means to be used are always in line with the standards for the protection of personal data as laid down by both our country's legislation and the relevant directive of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the rhetoric you use in your arguments against the police presence in university institutions is primarily governed by philosophicalism and major hypocrisy elements. The free movement of ideas is a fundamental principle and supreme principle of our democratic culture and has been governing all the public spaces in our country over the past decades and not just the university institutions. And this fundamental principle, which with suffering, struggles and blood our people have conquered, protects primarily the women and men of the Greek Police whose purpose, as an institution, is to serve and protect every Greek and Greek citizen wherever he is. After all, these services have been made and institutionalised in favour of the people, for the people, by the people. And, ladies and gentlemen, do you really think that the Greek Police officials who will serve at university institutions and who will come from the core of our youth will not serve this purpose? Will their presence there undermine the rights and freedoms of our students, teachers and workers? The executives of this police, however, don't you use them for your own protection? Unfortunately, you have proved throughout the consultation that you are not really interested in solving safety problems at universities. You are smelling and you are not suggesting sustainable solutions. On the contrary, you do not want to perpetuate these problems, to create polarisation conditions, to exploit political and electoral marginal groups and to use extra-university factors to create unattractive situations within the institutions as an element of your opposition tactics, by closing the eye of course to phenomena of lawlessness. Did the University of Oxford, which, with such virtuous recollection, ever confronted the phenomena that occur from time to time in the major Greek universities? Have violations been reported at the University of Oxford, such as persistent occupations of its buildings, damages, disasters of university equipment, burglary burglaries, invasions of teaching rooms and conventions, pre-compensation, intimidation, threats and physical harm to teachers, students and workers, the building of their offices, traffic and drug trafficking, attempts or even the execution of rape, imprisonment of fighters? The academic community is certainly making an enormous effort in crisis and insecurity, and we must ensure that all the factors which make it necessary to carry out its work unreservedly and to carry out that leap that is capable of taking place in the future. To conclude, Mr President, I would not be able to underline the importance of institutionalising the rules of Disciplinary Law, given the lack of corresponding arrangements in many university institutions in the country. The horizontal application of the Disciplinary Law to university departments defined as their misconduct and penalties is a regulation completely in the direction of facilitating and serving institutions in the definition of their misconduct and penalties, in order to fully clarify the Disciplinary Law with regard to students. With regard to the criticisms of the whole Oxford University, I would like once again to refer to the example of the Oxford University, which is obviously an example to be imitated in particular of Acoustic Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u38	Finish it, please. You've been in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u39	A few days ago, a statement by Mr. Paul Eleftheriadis, Professor of Public Law of the Law School of Oxford, and responsible for the disciplinary board of the faculty, was published in the newspaper "THEMA". In addition, Mr Eleftheriades mentioned features of the disciplinary treatment of students at this university, that the last sentence imposed was to a student who was quarantine because of a coronary and broke it, to take a walk at 12 o'clock, but without meeting someone. As the professor continues, his board imposed a prison sentence on the school for violating the rules. And no one can ever wonder once again, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the Hellenic University: when was the last time a disciplinary sentence was imposed on a student...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u40	Please, you're very welcome. You've been 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u42	Yeah, you're finishing up, but you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u43	I'll be done. When has this been done for incidents of disciplinary offences which may be of major importance, but also for cases of violence and lawlessness which are also criminal offences? Rhetorically, it is true, again, that the questions are asked. Ladies and gentlemen, by shutting down, freedom does not mean immunity. Isocrat also told us two and a half years ago: "Our democracy is being self-destructed, because it has abused the right to freedom and equality, because it has taught the citizens to view insolence as a right, illegality as freedom, indifference of speech as equality and anarchy as bliss" and wants, in fact, virtue and bold, but also political responsibility, to confront yourself with the antiquated and to reform the self-evident, which no political leadership has dared to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u44	All right, all right, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u45	One page, Mr President, and I have completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u46	Twenty minutes you've gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u47	There are no concessions in this. I have the consent and consent of the opposition. So our ideology, our conscience, does not allow it. But above all, our responsibility for the academic community does not allow it, a responsibility which is interlinked with the very essence of our education. Because education, according to Plato, is the "in great". And this "in great" that will form not only morally and spiritually our young people, but will also be the stone to be founded by the new Greece, is today a demand of the overwhelming majority of Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. Look, because the bill is fundamental both to the rapporteurs and speakers, there is always a tolerance from the House. So Mr Friends and all the rapporteurs will have the comfort they need. The rapporteur, Mr Nikolaos Friends, has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, for the first time, a Greek university, the National Kapodistrian University of Athens broke into a reliable international ranking the 200 best universities' dam in the world and took the memorable eighteenth place. It's a great success. Satisfaction is greater because all public universities have improved their position, as all private colleges - for your efforts to upgrade them artificially I will speak below, Minister - are thousands of places down. It explains the classification because the Greek family cares to see her child studying and starting the way to professional life at a reliable public university. Because it's the academic environment and the equipment infinitely better. So while we should be talking about the good news about public universities and how we will be helping them institutionally and economically - I would remind you that this year's regular budget for education in the budget has been reduced - so that we can hire at least a thousand of the three thousand university teachers who are missing, what are we doing? Unfortunately, we are talking, as if we are the parliament of the 1960s, about policemen at universities, about penalties and deletions to students, about mobs and mobs, about monitoring and recording communication systems. The only change is that times have changed and mocking is, of course, mainly electronic now, with cameras and control room. And we are talking within a fog of lies that you have created with fellow workers in society, in a storm of squatting, teachers, students and incriminating the ordinary citizen. SYRIZA during these three days will highlight every great and small lie you've made and exploited to harm the public university and the public school to cut off the future of the new generation. This year we celebrate the two hundred years anniversary of the Revolution of 1821, which broke out with faith by the rebels in the struggle for freedom and education. Are we honouring the national anniversary when we discuss a bill that stifles freedom, democracy and justice and kills the dream of education in tens of thousands of young people? For about ninety years since the establishment of the first university, the institution of higher education has evolved. But is it possible today to talk about universities of infraction, drugs, students who leave them and never get their degree? It includes a lot of unheard of your bill, but the most unheard of may be the best university it closes. That's your doctrine: It's a better university! Because that's what you're doing. Set up with the mobile import base in fifteen thousand high school graduates, i.e. to at least one in four students introduced in September 2020, the possibility of studying this year and as a result you leave dozens of departments mainly in the regional HEIs without students decline and close within four to five years. Let us speak with evidence, to understand what your vision of education is, and why this contrasts with every modern trend in the European Union. We have tabled a study in which nothing has been contradicted and we have tabled it here today in the House to be in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above study, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is also the study that has been presented by Oleme and the committee in which it demonstrates that 30% of children will not enter universities with your new measures. So this year, we will have fourteen thousand less entrants in relation to last year. If some HEIs choose not to apply the lowest possible basis, but they seem to be more stringent - the central universities obviously - then the number of importers will be reduced further and perhaps we have thirty and thirty-five thousand non-successful in seventy thousand graduates. And when is that? Today the graduates are second year away from their schools and teachers. This year's senior year's children don't go to school. This year's graduates have been practically going to school since February 2020. At least 30% of these cannot follow a satisfactory or teletext course. Really, Minister, the ninety thousand tablets you were going to give to the children by February - had the Prime Minister told the House last November - what happened? Did he go to anyone? We haven't heard. It's February. Ninety thousand! You haven't sent anything so far!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u50	Everything's gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u51	So far, no! You'll bring evidence. You haven't sent anything so far. Ninety thousand in February haven't gone. And you come after the middle of the year, literally in February, to change the basis of the introduction with fifteen thousand children unleashed from positions in universities. Analgesia? Indifference to the Greek family? Extreme Sadism of the Right for the Greek student and the poorest parent? Why don't we make a fool of ourselves, the poorest family is affected by the measures. She won't have to pay more internships in the middle of the year to respond to the child's greater competition. Ladies and gentlemen, four and a half thousand children who graduated last year and gave tests for the universities were unable to pass. These kids didn't get any good grades and stayed outside. But even successful were graduates with a low degree who were able to enter. Not with white glue, with low degrees of some of these kids! But you, with the media you're controlled, say: 'Now, a child entered the Forestry of Karpesis - from a small village started - with '2', '3'!'. First of all, I want to wish from this House's Step to end this child. We are next to the race that gives from the small village of Iatokarnania to finish Forestry in Karpenisi and offer its homeland. It is wrong to drag children through and cut them off, fight to educate and offer society. The general picture is different. These high school graduates who spend a few units are few. Give us evidence. How many graduates have they passed with ‘2’, ‘3’, ‘4’, ‘5’? They're a hundred, two hundred, three hundred, a thousand? It's not twenty-four thousand you cut! So don't mock people, don't dismiss candidates in the name of a small number of cases. One more thing. Among our fellow citizens who have gone to universities with low degrees and today they are working, we know many people who work in all professions and in all sciences, but who did not, because they wrote low degrees in introductorys, get into Greek universities. They left abroad, studied, returned and privatized between us. So do not drag around this world and do not create a negative picture for those who are trying to study. In our study we have shown who will be most affected by the mobile basis except for the participants: the regional universities. One hundred and thirty-nine sections and introductory directions to a total of four hundred eighteen will have student losses. Six sections will have no invaders and will be closed. Fifty cities will lose students. Seventeen of the twenty-four HEIs will suffer losses. This future is set for education and young people. Incrementally with losses, the sections that will shrink and close will be dozens. But something these sections offer in the periphery. They have been founded - I remind you - to serve cultural, development, social and some of these national aims. Do you know what set it strengthens - an objective of the European Union - to educate citizens? 40% of the ages of thirty-two-thirty-six years have a university education by 2020. That was the goal of the European Union. Why? Only because education goes out and heals the soul? Oh, no! Because educated society - says the European Union - is developing economically and is better responding to the changes and challenges of technology. 43% is found in Greece. Near 42% is the European Union's average. The Portuguese Presidency now sets the target in 2030 for having a higher education degree at the age of thirty-two-six to be 50%. You are the only one in Europe who wants to download it. Have the Europeans understood this in 2015? So Europeans are you? It's clear: From what school you want, we understand what growth you want. You want a growth model that will be served by low-level poorly paid jobs. It's the model of the Pissaridis exhibition. We also want - and in Europe this is a goal - a model of growth that has positions that will produce high added value and that will be well paid. So we need educated technology and wider people. In what election programme did you tell the citizens that you would reduce the number of importers? You reckon you're legislating on the basis of your election. Where did you write that? Where did you say so? Did you say so in the first statements by the Prime Minister when he came to the House? He did not say that in the programming statements. It's obvious! Have you written in your election program that you would fly out of the universities six hundred students and schoolchildren from night schools? These, well, did you find that you were able to hit those very few literally invaders returning to the gallery night, with a thousand difficulties, having an extra incentive to enter the university? So much hatred for the poor layers of society, for the most hunted of life's difficulties and the need to work, that these needs kept away from school and their peers? In these six hundred night graduates you turned your inspiring instead of helping them and opening up more passages. So what kind of decency, then? So excellence? At the same time, private education becomes a real party of excellence - from backwards. That's where he doesn't want any trouble, he wants a trick. "Get away from the universities" you cry with tears in the eyes "the moderate graduate does not enter". To get closer to colleges. The Private Union, which had proudly stated that it does what it wants to do in its pocket, and that is why it financed the New Democracy for an election - remember it, they told the House in - so where it enters these colleges not "7" and "8" someone, but indeed "0", does not give any exams. As long as the family pays the tuition fees and then it is fine to study and study, equal to the degrees of Greek public universities. You're hypocrites, you're slanderers. You're heard from parents and students. I don't know if you heard them at the two rallys. If not, you will listen to them better in the day after tomorrow, in the third banned by the Huntonmo Chrysochide the mass rally of students, students and teachers. But as you speak of them, I would like to present to the House the decisions of the senators. They are all against your law on the issues of democracy and issues concerning university police. Concert decisions, National Technical University of Athens, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Panteion, University of Patras, University of Ioannina, University of Crete, University of Thessaly, Democritus Thrace, Ionio, Greek Mediterranean University, University of Western Macedonia, High School of Fine Arts. Please, I table for the minutes the decisions of the Chambers. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm going to the other thing. You criticise us that we call society into disobedience. You say: "SYRIZA 3% returns." You've never understood why SYRIZA of 3% took over 30% three times in a five-year period and will be called again soon. Because you've been dragging society into crisis, decay and bankruptcy. You slander us that we tolerate or approve of the violence in universities. Who? You who rewarded the violence in the last reshape, giving the position to the Ministerial Council - you know - Mr Katsafados. If ever possible! It's hypocrisy too. But in this undemocratic and unconstitutional diversion you will find us in front of you. Police departments at universities, electronic mobs and cameras at student meetings and assemblies are things that not only apply in Europe, but in no democratic status in the world. They'll stay on paper until the next SYRIZA government abolishes them. Clearly and unspokenly, we say it out: Police out of the school. There is a proposal from the prerogatives for the preservation of universities which we support: funding by the state, with responsibility for the service of universities, that is, all over the world, and not with the originality of anti-democratics in Greece. And I'm sorry, because I knew Mr. Chrysochidis was at least in agreement. I leave Mrs. Kerameou with other performances. Mr Chrysochoidis said from Step one year ago: 'In universities neither police nor lawlessness have a place.' And now what's he doing? He's building a special body from extraordinary guards, who he hires with rousteological criteria and sends them to the police, sends them to the universities. That's why the cops disagree, as do you know POSSY. What happened and you changed your mind? The only thing that changed these thirteen months from Mr Chrysochide's interview is that the universities are closed. In practice, therefore, there is no infringement. So what happened? Oh, yeah! The absolutely condemnable energy against the dean of the Athens University of Economics, in which I express my sympathy and support from the Step of the House, when a group acted provocatively, giving the government the pretext of hiring thirty special guards. Look out! ‘Thirty-three’. It's all ruffles! Thousand thirty! With what investigation? What study of a thousand thirty? Anyway, the rushphetti will go cloud. Parents are already conspiring in the corridors of the local parliamentarians of the New Democracy. But they will be assured that the recruitment of Mr Chrysochide will take place for the electoral district. The universities therefore lack three thousand teachers and teachers and administrative staff today. And what is the government doing in the country that is second to the European Union in number of police officers per population? He hires another thousand. No teachers, no nurses, no doctors, no social workers, no other scientists, but a thousand special guards! You are moving us a poll saying that 60% of the citizens are supposed to be in agreement. But anyone who asks 'you want violence in universities' will answer 'no, I don't want'. Your slander lies in the fact that there are few cases of infractionality in universities, less than 0.1% of those noted throughout Greece annually. And that is not enough - you say - the police and the abolition of asylum, which you were telling us will solve the problem - so you fooled us in the summer of 2019 - but you want a thousand police officers, monitoring telecommunications systems and cameras on amphitheaters. No SYRIZA 3% tells you that. Stop mocking the people and considering them capable of losing all your communal lies! You're told by all the Republican councils. I already deposited the documents. You made it impossible! He tells us by letter - which he has sent here - the Academic Workers Association in Oxford. I testify to her in the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And yet, we're told by thousands of universities from Greece and abroad. I am presenting here in the Minutes of the House the initiative 'No Police at Universities', which sign about a thousand Greek universities and sign about a thousand - eight hundred fourteen, in fact - universities abroad. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There you arrived, to cross the Greek university and the Hellenic Republic internationally. Another miracle: you have managed to convince, as you have said, of course, the voters of the SYRIZA. In fact, but you have not convinced former Ministers of Education, Heads of State and Government, such as Mr. Souflias, Mr. Fortsakis, Mr. Spiliotopoulos, Mr. Zoe, Mr. Kyrchos, who criticise you for the solution "has a head cut" with the establishment of the university police. A yearly EUR 30 million will cost your authoritarianism and your ideology, not for young teachers, not for infrastructure, workshops, not for new research, not for students, not even for heating oil at universities, EUR 30 million as the annual grant of six universities from the state budget! [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I will say this again because it may not even be understood by your friendly journalists: the payroll of the thirty special guards exceeds the grant of six universities, including Athens. Instead of the University of Knowledge and Research, you lead us to the University of Arvyl, the Glop and Electronic Sphindism, at the University of 1969, as the State Secretary told us - shame! - in the 'Standard of Security' and other dark times. Catalyst the self-employed, the self-employed that is complete, according to the wording of the Constitution, "full self-employed", not a card! With the unacceptable inclusion of the Police as the body that monitors the collection and processing of any movement and communication of students and teachers in universities, you are even violating this initial finding of the President of the Personal Data Protection Authority Mr. Menudaku, who had first come to the contrary, which will of course be expelled to the courts. And you're telling outrageous lies that you've taken note of the point. You are immersed in a legislative "alimmunism" and now isolated you say that you will bring legislative improvements. There is no legislative improvement, there is no digital engraving at universities. So don't make fun of us. You are in favour of private schools and colleges from the first time you entered the Ministry, as if there were no tomorrow. Perhaps here I will admit that you have something in mind, perhaps you will consider that there will really be no tomorrow and you will legislate in the mosquitoes in the pandemic as mediators. You know well that your legislation will cause reactions and demonstrations. It's not urgent, not at all! The curtailment of importers does not solve any urgent problems and yet you bring it to Parliament at the same time as you blame the citizens for demonstrating themselves. Shame on you! And you refused today that there should be a legislative way out with the withdrawal of the bill, that it should not be discussed in the House today, when Mr Kikilis tells us that we will have a tough lockdown in the next few days. Even now it's time to get this bill back! And you get to the takeoff when, under Article 36 of your law, the Minister empowers herself and gathers all powers for a number of issues of education. Such ludicrous majesty! Don't come to the House anymore, make the article more enlarged, have competence for what your soul longs for! We have once heard of the opportunity being made." I recognize that you show flexibility, your motto now is 'to make the pandemic an opportunity', an opportunity to bury the democratic acquis of post-multipleism and to reap social inequalities, at the expense of youth and the poorest people's strata. Mr Chrysochoidis does not cry out at random "left of the Postmopulation!", interpreting a dominant spirit within the party that today serves with devotion, the spirit that tends to challenge and cancel the offer of the conservative space in the restoration of democracy. The 1975 slogan, which you are undermining today, was written by Constantine Chatsos and signed by Constantine Karamanlis. It was, of course, a result and responded to a correlation between social and political forces that came out of the junta and the longing of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u52	Colleague, if you can, shorten your position, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u53	I'm done, thank you. So you do not do what Mr Chrysochoidis says, to identify yourself with the extreme right-wing nostalgics who, as liberating the links of democracy, mean the revival of the post-German state and the dictatorial regime. The current team of New Democracy knows that democratic transformation, its symbolism, its foundation in the anti-digit struggle, with the contribution of the Left, is the historic milestone of the democratic progressive space, that the main institutions that have since been holding do not rule out the decisive contribution of the folk and the left to developments. This Left You want to be institutionally outraged by the functioning of the culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u54	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u55	The aim of the weakening of universities and the new police force is to rule out in every way - they stress this - the return of the defective ideas, as you say, of the Left to the country's governance. This plan has been put into practice for good, and the "anti-reform" in education is part of it. Thank you, Mr President, for coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u56	Finish because you've been in twenty-three minutes, Mr. Friend!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u57	We saw it in the previous bill with the turn from child labour and the abandonment of school from the fifteen, recently with the inspiration of giving representatives to the teachers' service councils, shortly after the 93% abstention from the fraudulent elections by the teachers. You're vain, gentlemen of the government! Whatever framework you can shape, no matter how much legislative arrangements you pass, no matter how much repression forces you are in command, your days are counted. Something's changing in society's atmosphere these days! Something's changing, understand it! Something changes, but the 'Ikaria', but backwards, but the disillusionment of people for the measures you take, but the lockdowns and the testing of people, something changes, understand it! Don't get caught by the longness of the polls. Something changes in society and will force you to make political moves to save you quickly, will force you to make policies...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u58	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u59	We call - and I finish - every Member who wants to link his name to those who forty-six years have been serving the democratic university, but who does not want to link his name to those who bring the police back to universities and instead of opening schools and closing prisons, closing universities and opening up a supermarket and school food shop." This is your model for education, 'fast food and supermarket' model.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u60	Good, thank you very much. Mr. Philly, twenty-four minutes you've spoken!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u61	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. For every problem you have a solution, it's police, authoritarianism. For every problem in education, by analogy, you also have a solution, hard examinations, and we need education, from a course, especially today because of the pandemic. You hard tests! Ladies and gentlemen, the legislation, which you have before you today, is a matrix for the integration of an anti-democratic climate throughout society. It's a womb to return to society as a whole. It's uterus for the growth of social inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. Any overrun in time is at the expense of fellow Members who will speak on the last day. Ms. Hara Kefalidou, a special speaker from the Change Movement, has the floor. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister rightly said that the operation of Parliament does not stop with pandemic. This is evidenced by the three-day discussion of a bill on admission to higher education, the protection of academic freedom and other provisions. It is a bill that was advertised as far as it could by the leadership of the Ministry of Education long before it was given the consultation, it has become a front page of newspapers, it has been discussed on TV windows, it has been baptized "reforming", it has resulted in a "red cloth" for Acoustic Response, which found in this a new field of the mother of all battles and a fresh "raison d' etre" to halt her popular precipitation. We are discussing today a bold legislative initiative by the Government, which brings to the fore the key issues of the quality of the Greek universities - whether it provides solutions - the issues with which the latest serious efforts and the efforts of Mrs Giannakou from New Democracy and Mrs Diamantopoulou from PASOK have been dealt with over the last ten years. In particular, the Diamantopoulou Act was particularly bold, radical, brought fresh air to the relevant debate and embraced parliamentary as little legislation in history. In its implementation, however, it began to be undermined and dismantled from the next day. So, ten years later, we are again facing the same unsolved problems. The bill did bring together enormous social interest. Unfortunately, however, for the wrong reasons and in the wrong way. It deals with three extremely important issues. First, the basis for introducing into higher education under the burden of a shameful reality, introducing students whose ratings are not sufficient to advance to class and are proven difficult to respond to their studies. Secondly, the safety and security of HEIs in the shadow of failure, the eighteen-month-old flagship, as you said, for university asylum. And, of course, the Disciplinary Law, where its title would be better to say "Let's remake the already legislated", because you know that by Law 4009/2011 each university has an obligation to provide for disciplinary misconduct, penalties, competent bodies responsible for monitoring compliance with institutional rules, responsibilities and procedures. At least, let's pack it all together and put it in a single codified text. That would really be a tool for all universities. Minister, during the debate on this bill democracy did not stop because of pandemic, but lost its most powerful weapon, dialogue. In the committee, you know very well, dialogue has not taken place, rather than barren monologues, and that is on your own responsibility. All parties, the leadership of the academic community, the stakeholders, have indeed expressed their views. They have all seriously and clearly set out the parameters of the arrangements you bring, they have highlighted the failures and deadlocks created by the bill, but nothing has been heard. Refusing the constructive dialogue, you have been unreserved to ready, as you always do, and today you are obliging us by your majority to force indebtedness, unprocessed, inappropriate, ineffective and, above all, inappropriate arrangements. In the first part on arrangements for introduction to higher education, we also told the committee that you were starting backwards. We are talking about the introduction phase at the IOI before we find how much HEI we need, which schools we need through the evaluation that we are still waiting for and the connection to a development plan. Instead of discussing the correct and effective distribution of sections, when we have dozens of sections with the same object, for example. accounting, you start vice versa. Instead of the HEIs finally acquiring a four-year planning, on the basis of a national education planning, as Mrs. Giannakou's Law 3549/2007 and Mrs. Diamantopoulou's No.4009/2011, you are trying by tricks to limit the entrants, just to get you the numbers. Perhaps because you're thinking of putting it as a personal achievement in your election booklet. Ladies and gentlemen, the key to an honest method of introduction to higher education is the radical reform of high school. I'm sure it's not the salamation, like the one that did the Ministry, separating the general high school from vocational and vocational training. From there you start, from the root of the problem, so that you can correct the sad phenomenon of "1", "2", because you know that we play "PROD" in the writings of the exams. We support and insisted on the establishment of a national high school, general and professional, using a Bank of Topics, for a uniform assessment of pupils in European standards, a clear and honest method that gives the true overall picture of the student, multi-approved and accepted throughout Europe. We don't have to discover the wheel! That concludes once and for all the debate on the basis of the introduction. You don't need to break your head with a minimum base of induction, with sums of average terms, of average terms. One thing that takes half an hour to explain, can't be effective. Instead of the above, the Ministry has chosen once again to use the measure of establishing an import base for the wrong reasons and in a wrong way. Mrs Kerameou does not burn to create a fair import system, but to close university departments without "strengthening nostrils". It does not, however, have the courage to say clearly what it has in its design and to support it. Logic says you first set up the outlets and then plan on how to close university departments. So you're making a difficult and tough patent, surpriseing the candidates and their families, since you want it to apply to the next pan-Hellenics. I'm telling you, as in previous times, rethink it. The pandemic overturned everything. Do you want to reduce the invaders? Do it evenly, depending on university proposals. Instead of this logical step, the Ministry is preparing a restructuring by abolishing and merging, on the basis of no national spatial planning of educational structures, nor on the basis of the assessment of the NRA, but on the basis of what the candidates say and where it is not suited to study. We don't hide the problems under the carpet, we don't hide the bitter truths. We tell you that it is embarrassing, wasteful and ultimately useless that the state should embezzle young people, the academic community and the taxpayers, by sharing degrees that are not worth the paper that is printed, without an impact on the economy, without an impact on work, but not even on education. We dare say that universities must first of all exist for students to provide scientific supplies to tomorrow's scientists. Maintaining schools that produce degrees without any value and response to the economy and work is only a costly and painful perversion. This debate and the respective bill should have preceded this. But that, Minister, wants political courage. It can't be done with puppets and patches. Ask your predecessors to whom you want and to be like. Part II. We go to the provisions that hurt, they hurt and they shadow the entire bill, the guarding and the policing of the HR. A great deal has been said and the debate on this matter has almost been one-off and all the interest in this bill. The parties were placed without any special surprises, having largely reiterated well-known views that most of them value only as antiques. We at the Change Movement and recognize our mistakes and pay our bills. We have therefore cleared our position with a comprehensive proposal for a law - I do not present it today, it has been tabled to the debate long before the draft law was tabled - and this proposal emphasises the security and security of HEIs, with respect always being respected in the self-employed of universities. We put our burden on the proper and secure functioning of the HEIs and that's where we really think this piece belongs to the administrations of the HEIs. We don't throw the weight on the platform, like SYRIZA does, nor do we do it all like New Democracy does. We are bringing the administrations of the HEIs face their responsibilities. We demand that they comply with the tasks they have undertaken to run their premises, ensuring that the institutions are safe and uninterrupted. Despite the efforts of the Minister to identify us with the self-invited patrons of the student and the old student movements that smelled naphthalene of the 1970s, we were and are perfectly clear. We strongly condemn violence, lawlessness, propaganda and vandalism and we will not tolerate any attempt to deport the university by anyone. For our depreciation of the space and the concept of the university, not only do the "bugs", but also the assignment of custody to a police force that is supervised and accountable to a foreigner, to the academic institution, which is the Services and the Ministry of Civil Protection. On the other hand, the government has various views on the government's choice of policing. The Minister for Civil Protection considers it an act of forced action, Mrs. Keramos again "reinforcement of an academic environment". Truly, how forced does the little anti-constitutional discount take place for the sake of the alleged, but not proven achievement of security through the assignment of part of the HEI to the unauthorised Ministry of Civil Protection? Eventually, how effective will this bargaining of constitutional rules be? And is it really worth it? Legislatively blessing the inability of universities to exercise fundamental part of their responsibility and to establish the irresponsibility of the Republican authorities is indeed the only option we have? The security and policing at the premises of the Greek HEIs has been afflicting the entire Greek society for decades, without being yet a viable way of guaranteeing it. The main reason is that the parties used to use HS for their own purposes and to see them in the light of their ideological advances, their historical past and their electoral pursuits. The academic leadership, while the revolutionary gymnastics did not knock on her door, was just a spectator of what was happening. But when the ball turned into terrorism and drug trafficking centre, it lifted its hands high, supposedly astonished by everything she let them reap and understand every corner and every inch of many great HEIs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all allowed all this to happen, the parties and the leaderships of the HEIs harmonized. With actions and omissions, we have allowed the formation of a general tolerance to lawlessness, which has become a custom and has resulted in culture from the small interests, lurking and indifference. Let us do some self-criticism, ladies and gentlemen. The university needs controlled access and good storage. And that's not about substituting power, just like only the head of the Ministry of Education does not understand. It's done with a responsibility, with work, with the state's guarantee of resources. Fortunately, Mr Chrysochoidis has confessed that the purpose is as soon as possible to end up with the dean's responsibility and in a securit, namely, in the situation in most parts of Europe and the world. "This is the goal," he said with self-criticism. So what do we have today? "Specific guards body," we say. "Thousand thirty permanently appointed special guards," says New Democracy. For SYRIZA, I'm not talking about it, there's no problem, no lawlessness, no trabucism, no violence in universities. What are you talking about? "Trained guards, where everyone is trained, at the Police Training School," we say, to solve the question of Mrs. Kerameos. This is the CEMEA, the Centre for Security Studies. That's where everyone who's interested in having private care training. You say again: 'Finally special guards who will also be trained after they have been recruited'. "Servants who will be hired as employees for as long as needed by the EHS," we say. "Appointed to save," says the New Democracy. "So many who every EHU needs," we say. "Twenty-three unstoppable," says the New Democracy, it saves and de! How does that number turn out? "They will cooperate when needed with the Police that is present within and outside the IHS with radios and with all the means of modern technology," we say. "Only with her own children can the police consult and cooperate," says New Democracy. "It will be accountable to the dean authorities," we say. "It will be accountable to ELAS," says the New Democracy, because very simply the administrations of the universities are incapable. We, in the Change Movement, made a comprehensive proposal for a law on the security of the HEIs, based mainly on common sense, the recent legislation on the true concept of university asylum that gives space and opportunity to the police to intervene everywhere, within and outside the IITs where illegal energy is being carried out, with the aim of effectively safeguarding with all modern means, with full respect for the self-sufficientness of the universities, which we remember. It was a proposal for a law that was greeted voluntarily and was frightfully ignored by the Minister of Education on the grounds that the hit of the month has become - forty years of lawlessness, violence and terrorism in the HEIs, the masters have not done anything, why have they now? Listen to a point! But that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. Only eighteen months have passed since the provision on university asylum was made. When did the government get through with me closed HEAN to understand that its emblematic law is not working? When did he get to vindicate SYRIZA and the three-five-four-girl movement that fought it? The government’s response to the predicament of violence with the U.S. dean is to make those constitutional predictions or free doom. So, let's think, every time a beginning doesn't do a good job, instead of changing it, making it, correct it, we'll replace it with another beginning? And that's what we're going to baptize 'upgrade'? So if the parties don't do a good job, should we replace our democracy with something else? It's an extreme argument, you'll tell me, but think about it. It seems to me that SYRIZA's disease at the end of the day to decorate all the joints of power is probably contagious. Not even the Urban New Democracy was able to escape. Ladies and gentlemen, for all the public goods that are loaded with sweat and blood from taxpayers, we must build a culture of respect and concern. Good management of public property should concern us all. One more reason for LEIs that are not just public houses, but perhaps the most valuable tools for a better tomorrow for our children and our country. We need fresh air in universities. The lesson we learned with our ten-year-old civilization to move forward with the reforms of Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Diamantopoulou, which have been voted very strongly in this Chamber, is clear. They huged and at the same time undermined. All this must give us a lesson, that major national issues, such as education, cannot proceed without honest consensus and harmony. Nothing goes ahead without these two. Arrogance, pretext for the dialogue, ideoleptic rigidity and spooning are completely inappropriate in order to achieve these necessary conditions. As you would already understand, we are voting against this bill - a paradox for protecting the academic freedom and degradation of the academic environment. But we feel very sad because this piece of legislation you brought is another lost opportunity for the Greek universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Like the thief in the pandemic, the government beats for the third time in the training suddenly. The first time he returned to high school, a high school that looks more and more like an examination arena, he displaced more from education real knowledge with skills, not so necessary, all and of course he drastically reduced the transcripts that help the children of the poor, the people's families. The second time, by making another tribute to BSE with the Law on Vocational Education, it opened wide and officially the way for underage work through early training. And now comes the third blow in the middle of this year's school year. And what year? With schools blinking, since a year now stubbornly refuses to ensure their live operation with extra spaces and teachers. So in the middle of this year's school year, four months before the pan-Hellenic examinations you're drastically changing the process of admission to universities. In other words, their children and their families were not enough to stress the great amount of exams that they have, which beats red, you know in the people's homes from the difficult and hard conditions of the pandemic, you are now coming and you are getting this stress to grow even further by bringing some changes of the black candy, such as the minimum import base and the so-called dual computer. You think you have now found the opportunity and you are constantly bavaging with the polls that tell you that all that you vote for is positive, says the majority of society. You know what, though? All of this changes and even very quickly when they see it and they will live it in practice. This will also be done with changes in the system of examination. Because, in fact, with those obstacles that the children of the people's families have to overcome to enter the university, they become even bigger. The new major obstacle that arises with your bill and directly in the pan-Hellenic examinations of the coming June is called a minimum import base in place of the oldest base of the "Ten". From this year on, the first application is expected to be less than those who enter universities from twenty to thirty thousand according to the wars, the OLAMEs, but also your own indirect confession. And these thousands of fewer students will miss regional schools with the possibility that several of them, like some central, might close down. And we warn against the crocodile tears and falsifications in their regions for the schools that are closed, because in here all this is being raised and voted for. However, the large one called a minimum import base also has other negative consequences for young people's educational and working rights, since for the first time universities, departments and schools themselves are allowed to form these minimum import bases. This may be given as a dolphin to the universities to accept and accept the repression in their homes for their students, but it also leads to the greater opening of the scissors between the schools, the background, that is, their categorisation, their degrees and therefore their graduates. And so a path is opened at the end of which they will not be the candidates, but those schools that will eventually choose their students. The government here comes and makes a reasonable argument and says: 'Nobody with '2' '4', etc., at universities' and that the level of the admissionees comes up immediately, as is the level of the schools. If we leave aside the changing degrees in the capitalist labour market, the preferences of the candidates, on the basis of courses in another city, as well as the impact of a small or large one, because it is not the same - every degree in the capitalist labour market - and do not tell me that all of this does not affect the bases of the schools - and let us go see the level of importers you are cutting, then we have to admit that this level is nothing more than the mirror of the school from which it comes. Except this school, you know, is the creation of your governments, Mrs. Keramos and Mr. Friends, and this school with your laws, which you vote alternately, is increasingly oriented towards the competitive pan-Hellenic exams, and so it is becoming more and more devastating, more and more psychoactive for its students. And let essential knowledge and multi-faceted education be given to it by the dropper, and let its teachers strive for it with all their strength. Wasn't the Gabroglou Law that turned the second and third grades from general school classes into purely instructional classes of parallel examinations? New Democracy and Ms.Kerameos stepped on this law in the summer and enriched it with the Bank of Topics that she has brought from this year and for the first time since the First High School, the Bank of Topics which you know objectively pushes teachers to work only with the "sos" of the exams. So you and your governments are going to talk about the level of students - candidates when you have despised the educational level of an entire generation and the school wants it as a mere training of the pan-Hellenic examinations. That is to say, the disciples who stole the book from our hand to accuse us of being left undetected. After the minimum import base, the second new obstacle that rises for the candidates is the two-stage computer, he says, which creatively copys is true an older idea of SYRIZA for the “red” and “green” sections. In the first phase of completing this issue, which reminds me of gambling, roulette normal, i.e. entering a limit with a minimum of 10% of each field's schools. Anyone who fails to do so in the first phase, and they will, of course, be most, then fill in the second computer for what they do and for whatever vacancy they have left over from the first phase. Are you serious about ensuring that the candidates are given the choice they want? Who are you kidding? It is precisely the opposite that is happening even worse than what is happening today. Of course, the government did it for time by making a forced manoeuvre from student mobilizations. However, if governments really wanted to introduce schoolchildren into the schools they wish would give them the right to repeat the process, to secure the course score for the next few years and to have expanded school choices depending on the courses. We have proposed this on several occasions, but the New Democracy Government and the SYRIZA Government have rejected it before. And not only that, but you also put extra cutters, so that eventually the introduction of a child into the university depends on his parents' pocket and social origin. They can't, as you say, go to university, especially if they're kids from people's homes. You say, of course, to these children: "It's okay, there are other, alternative educational routes, not just the university" and you show public IEK. Yes, sir. Which one exactly? What do you do with the law you passed a month ago? Did you not vote that, in order not to close public IEKs in Athens and Thessaloniki, it must - says - ensure at least two hundred fifty students and in the rest of Greece a hundred? Did you forget? What public IEK are you talking about? For what you have reduced their funding from 85 million - so much did you give them and not get them - where are you going now at 56 million? They planted that they were growing from sub-financing before and now are you telling them seriously that with less money they would be able to accept more students? Are you working on us, or are you planning on the money you dropped from the students' pockets? Don't you dare! The students of the IEK will not allow you to do so. Finally, after the great slaughter of the candidates and the limited positions of the public IEK, the only alternative left to the children of the people's families is private IEKs and colleges that grow up like mushrooms. And here, in college, SYRIZA's nest is getting it dirty. He and in 2017 and in 2018 favourable arrangements for these colleges as a government, and of course the question of sixty of a SYRIZA MP - were among them, Mr Phile - that you demanded that the correspondence of college degrees should not be delayed. Now, to go to the other theme, while the universities are the only ones that have been closed and never opened for a year, the malls - you see - and all the shopping centers can operate there near your Ministry, but not the university schools. At a time when students claim to open their schools with all the necessary health insurance measures, while starting - as in Crete, for example - students themselves with their associations to live up to their schools by taking reopening initiatives, what are you doing? You may be always crying about Brain Drain, but scientists in Greece do not use them to teach at universities. You open up, of course, but not the schools. You're opening police departments in schools and universities. Take advantage of the obvious, provocative mechanisms of well-known strangers, who have nothing to do with their students and their movement. And as a manna from your heavens came that well-known inhuman, provocative energy with the dean of ASEAN. You have invested, you see, for years in the systematic symposium of universities as a centres of crime and you now bring to the vote with today's bill the repressive measures at the expense of student clubs and students, who claim for their studies and their lives, a lot of repressive provisions, all under the sign of protection - supposedly - of academic freedom and upgrading - of the academic environment, provisions which make up an endless grid of instruments, measures, instruments for monitoring, criminalising, terroristising student struggles and claims. It's not just the unheardless establishment, in fact, of the police at the universities. As if this police have no more business to do! The fugitive Golden Pappas is still uncircumcised, Mr Chrysohoid! There are more: Electronic and other security systems for outdoors and indoors, electronic bars, surveillance cameras everywhere, even within amphitheaters, electronic detection equipment for internal and external exits! All of this will make you forget that you're at a university in your youth, that is, in life and knowledge, and you'll think you're in some high-security business center. But the government's repressive crescendo does not end here. With the same reactionary, repressive logic as the so-called 'Diary Law of Students'. The sentences for violations photograph and target not some criminals, but the action of the student clubs and the fighters themselves in the universities. There are penalties that even arrive at the deletion from the school for blocking a course and an institution, such as the disciplinary board of students you are building and which can even delete someone from the school with that vague and general category of Article 23 on preventing the well-being of the institution. This general provision can easily be made for the protest of a student club to impose - let us say - a teacher on postgraduate or on the unacceptable situation in student centres! What is all this, if not suppression against the general conventions of the student clubs, repression against their fair mobilisations, which we have never seen before - do not forget! - They blocked and canceled the charge of teachers to postgraduate. This is, of course, a very reactionary, dangerous development. And here, however, the road was opened and the alibi was given again by the government of SYRIZA, because it was SYRIZA who two years ago, September 2018, with that conclusion of the Committee on Friday, gave the slogan to further criminalize students' struggles, ranking the occupation in criminal offences and even providing for the establishment of a committee to deal with conquests. So here it is the main cause and the main purpose of all these police measures. They are intended, above all, to safeguard the institutions' business, but also to deal with the violence and repression of any organized collective question of the university - a public limited company and any racing claim by students for integrated studies. That's why you're joining the police in the universities, and that doesn't change either she's in the police headquarters or she's in the institutions' prerogatives, as SYRIZA and the rest of the opposition wants. The conclusion comes out on its own: As long as the university is transformed into a business, the more it trades, the more it is finally removed from the actual needs of the students, but also from the social majority, the more it will resort to repression, force and terror. Repressive, in essence, is also the role of the limits of the famous "n + 2", with the well-known line of eternal students. Well, where do you live? Don't you know that many students find it difficult to respond to the cost of their studies? You don't know that almost half the people, according to surveys, are working on leg jobs, mispaid, uninsured, so they can study? What do you think? That all the children have turned well into their lives and you come and put the knife in their throats to end quickly - quickly their studies as if they didn't want to, as if they could and didn't. And these children who, for social reasons, most of them delay their degree, dare to threaten them by deletion and make them present you with the signal that they are working to do what? Help them financially and support them to receive their degree in time? Not for the record, but for you to extend their own studies. You persecutors of eternal students prolong their studies. In fact, you do not give any money to these children, and you are dealing with the phenomenon of delays in study because this spoils the university spear in the international rankings of their evaluations. Except in the indicators of these evaluations, students are a set of numbers rather than people with needs. And these reviews you all worship from New Democracy to SYRIZA. We've been listening all these days and we hear SYRIZA say he's going to annul, if he becomes a government, that law. Well, a lot said SYRIZA would do away with a law and an article, let's not remember them now. But to have a good question, what exactly will SYRIZA be abolished? Will it abolish the tuition fees in the postgraduate that he took off? Will he abolish the tuition fees in the foreignlanguage departments he imported? Will he abolish university bishops even at the expense of students who also helped? Will it abolish the hostage of research from the profits of business groups? Isn't that what we're living with with the vaccines now? Will it abolish the European Union's strategy for all this? No, of course, because he agrees and defends all this. The most - very well - to change the color in the uniforms of university police officers, as "AGEY" asked and get them to the dean instead of the chief of police. In fact, we all know that, the only one who can and must abolish all this in practice is the people and their children, with their struggle and with a compass, nothing less than today's modern needs. And he will, be sure, all these days and tomorrow with the rallys all over the country, that's exactly what he's gonna buzz. We are of course voting against this bill with hands and feet and we are making a request for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill, since this principle also defines its reactionary content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Delis. On behalf of the Greek Solution, Mrs Sophia Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day and it is so important that we are talking about education and, in particular, about higher education, access to it and its security, because the existence of a high-quality and efficient educational system is a valuable asset for every state. We must not forget that it creates thinking Greeks with knowledge and well-trainedness. We are therefore talking about an investment of crucial importance which must in no way be ignored. Today we are discussing Greek education. Today we come before our children to talk to them about what you as parties have destroyed education. When we say that we are talking about New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK. You make hundreds of bills from 1974 until today for education and see the results and messes of universities. So today, you're coming here and fighting as Neroes for who set the greatest fire. So today, instead of apologizing, you only question your party audience. You agree at all, in economics, in Prespes, in Greek-Turkish and allegedly disagree on this matter for your party audience. You who agree with Lockdown, the incarceration of young people and the large ones, who agree to compulsory vaccination, which you agree to on immigration, are allegedly opposed to the issue of the bill. No, gentlemen, you don't disagree on the matter of the bill. You vote on the basis of the bill. The minimum import base shall be introduced to vote. How satisfied can Greek society be when candidates enter tertiary education at just above zero? Such cases, which are not very few, are an extremist demonstration of the deterioration of the Greek educational system, with universities themselves complaining about the quality of their students' cognitive infrastructure, undermines the quality of their own work. The grading threshold is reasonable to put it in order to limit this phenomenon. The wrong targets of the past have often led to higher education in a course of decline and depreciation. Share in this course is also the belief that decades ago, that having a degree automatically means the individual's social realization, as well as ensuring a gain in employment. At the same time, the fact that candidates have the opportunity to declare selection schools without any measure leads to the phenomenon that students should not be introduced into schools of their first choice. This, of course, means that, on the one hand, they do not have the required will to commit themselves to the science of their choice and, on the other, do not have any real satisfaction with their studies and, on the other, do not have the opportunity or the willingness to strengthen their university's educational and research work. This is why the compiling of the computerised form must be done very carefully and with a specific limit so that the problems of the past can be stopped. Often, because they have not received the appropriate guidance and their gradients and skills have not been correctly diagnosed, they are led to the wrong choice of a scientific sector. The role of vocational guidance is therefore crucial in all these cases. At the same time, the issue of eternal students requires clear regulation. That is why we are saying about the need to strengthen the professional orientation which will lead to clear choices and love for the science or the sector that each candidate chooses. The entry to the university was an end in most Greek families, wrongly putting the importance of technical and vocational education and training on a second footing, which can contribute to the qualitative upgrading of the productive fabric, but also to the improvement of competitiveness. Secondary education, on the other hand, must not be removed from its objectives, which are to provide wider education and the cultivation of personalities, nor should it be solely a stepping stone for the introduction to higher education institutions. Love for knowledge is characteristic of Greek culture and deeply rooted in Greek consciousness. To put serious bases, however, the sudden changes that create additional stress on the candidates must now stop. Create, as we have repeatedly told you in the Greek Solution, an intergroup committee to draw up a 12-year training programme to be applied to anyone in the government. Learning and investing in human capital are related not only to good GDP but also to a number of other indicators, such as greater involvement of citizens in democratic functions, higher prosperity and lower crime. Education, research and innovation, the components of higher education, are the components of national and not just progress and development. And of course, the role that universities have in the economic development of a country has proved to be of strategic importance. Moreover, it is well known that higher education should smell students in scientific knowledge and methodology. Our public universities are inhabited by tomorrow's scientists, who should not simply be able to reproduce the knowledge provided to them, but also to promote and develop them. Now, as far as the security and protection of universities are concerned, the solution is one and we have submitted it to you in the Greek Solution. Direct creation of a special body for the protection of universities. The staff of this special body will have appropriate training and will also have an integrated military mandate in the special forces. This well-trained staff will intervene without a special leave in cases where criminal offences are carried out. Because one is the question, the safety of both students and university teaching and administrative staff. In order to integrate security, one more thing needs to be done. What we are asking for and want is asylum of ideas, not asylum of illegal and illegal people. Safeguarding and protecting academic spaces is a very serious task. That is why it must be done by people and staff with the training we have mentioned. We talked about the absolute necessity of the full immunity of university incomings. It is clear that the entry should only be made by means of a special card and should only concern those who have the right to be in the university space. It is also necessary to apply this to both internal and external university spaces. When it comes to the safety of our children, we must be very specific. Universities are training areas where neither violence nor illegality are in any position. This chain of infraction must finally be broken. The Greek universities can't stay hostages of offenders, hoodiers, violence and disasters forever. Violence cannot be compatible with the functioning of the university. The veil of fear has absolutely no place in public higher education. Students in too many cases live under terror. They are afraid to approach the university, especially at night. Do you think these conditions can coexist in the sense of education and research? The examples of foreign universities are characteristic. It is incomprehensible to allow any unlawful act there without interfering with police forces. With regard to the destruction of public property, a clear measure is forced payment and full liability of damage and, of course, a strict disciplinary penalty for students involved in disasters, their dismissal, that is, from the university. Such phenomena must in no way be tolerated. Academic titles cannot be awarded to those engaged in acts of destruction and violence against the university area itself. Ensuring uninterrupted academic function is of fundamental importance. We cannot, however, stress our opposition to what we have read about the establishment of an independent service entitled Security and Protection Unit, which will be set up in every HR unit. The unit - you say - will be managed by regular staff of the IEO and staff employed under a fixed-term private contract, if the regular staff of the IEO are not sufficient to serve the unit. It is clear that the public academia should be filled with 'logues'. The remuneration of temporary staff will be borne by the budget of the project financed from the Special Research Fund’s own resources. Will people be hired for security and security issues and will the PPE be charged? How sensible is that? It is in fact a matter of research, which is one of the main activities of universities. The parties and political groups have no place in public universities. Full collection of public universities yesterday! Not now, yesterday! They offer absolutely nothing to either education or research. For these are the aims of higher education alone. The same applies to the Republican elections which are necessary and absolutely necessary to disconnect them from the students. The HEIs must be a place of new knowledge and not an outbreak of all kinds of infractions with the destruction of university spaces, theft of important research instruments, drug trafficking and other criminal activities in their premises. That is why we disagree with the lack of a student representative on the disciplinary board. The concepts of order and protection of public property are really very important. We must not neglect equal access for disabled people to higher education. A characteristic point, in order to ensure equal integration of disabled people either as students or as employees, is the accessibility of the infrastructure offered. The university must be for everyone, without discrimination. We are going through a critical period because of the pandemic situation, with contagionists saying that we need to do everything we can to keep schools open. Indeed. But have you taken all the appropriate measures? Because the evidence shows that there is an increase in imports to the children's hospitals. A very serious issue which, at every opportunity, should be mentioned is the one concerning the young Greeks and Greek women, about six hundred thousand, who left in the years of the memoranda to work abroad. Give the motives, opportunities and the opportunity to return back to our country, to the country of their hearts. We, in the Greek Solution, believe it and prove it by tabling detailed proposals that it should be completely eliminated and the slightest chance that any student, academic or administrative employee in the fields of violence and illegality, who are directly opposed to the very concept of the university, might be at stake. The question of the safety of students in the staff and facilities, as well as the well-being of universities, requires constant attention and care to be taken to ensure that we stop witnessing cases of lawlessness and disasters. The public Greek university is a leading humanitarian institution. It is for our society the main area for meeting ideas and concepts that are open to concerns and criticism. It is the most important place where consciences are formed, where ideas are captured and moved. It's a bright lighthouse of research and innovation. That's his role, so he deserves to be treated. It is our responsibility to contribute to raising his prestige and improving the conditions under which it operates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs Asmakopoulou, and especially for keeping time. I shall now give the floor to the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs Sakorafa. Immediately after Mrs Sakorafa, there will be a debate on unconstitutional applications. So, the speakers and conceivers of getting ready. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are coming to the House to discuss the new Mitsotakis bill on education. We all remember - for the first time, I will say - that it is the bill presented to Greek society by two ministers for the sake of co-responsibility. The Minister of Education jointly presented this with the Minister of Police. We shall therefore follow the government demonstration and suggestion of the co-responsibility of the ministries. So today, Mr Chrysochide, we will talk about the sensitive issue of education and, in particular, about the changes you want to bring with your new bill. I will only say two words about unconstitutionality. The opposition to unconstitutionalism relates to a number of articles in the bill, which ignore the constitutional requirements for both the state's obligation to provide free education and the self-government of higher education institutions. You will, of course, insist, closing your ears and moving forward. I would just like to ask you one question as to whether we can all consider it. Let us assume that these provisions are ultimately judged by the courts as unconstitutional. Is there any consistency in our parliamentary system for those who have been proposed or also for those who have voted in favour of an anti-constitutional provision? But the protection of the Constitution is supposed to be the fundamental state value. Therefore, any provision that violates or violates the Constitution is by definition a serious breach of duty and for those who have recommended and for those who have voted in favour. And this is where the parentheses are closed. Let us now come to the regulation of the bill. In the first part of the bill, Mr Chrysochide, you are changing today, one breath before the introductory examinations, the system for introducing high school graduates into universities. This is what you decided today in Greece, in the circumstances of the coronary, as they exist objectively, but also as they were shaped by government failures and inconsistencies. The children who will give tests this year did not go to school three months last year and already two months this year. They have already lost half a school year. Part of this vacuum is supposed to be covered by tele-education. We all know, however, and we recognise that it is not possible to replace the live education process even with an excellent organization, let alone when it comes to the sad reality of Greek telecommunications. To each home parents and students, with whatever equipment they have - if they have - they are trying to meet the cumulative needs of teleworking and teleworking. I have not heard a single public statement by a Member of Parliament about this problem, ladies and gentlemen. No, for you it's like there isn't. But this reality does not honor any of us. The only ones worthy of honor are those who give the daily race, the teachers who are trying for themselves to salvage what students can fight for their future in such difficult and unfavourable conditions. So, Mr Chrysochide, you bring these notorious changes to the system of examinations: the special import base that will be formed by school or department and the computer in two phases. With the minimum import base, which you bring - I repeat - one step before the examinations, you will exclude thousands of candidates from the possibility of introducing them into universities. So you overthrow the planning and reality of thousands of families and condemn the expectations of thousands of pupils. You have previously succeeded in a similar way, under Ms Giannakou's Ministry, to remain vacant about fifty thousand posts in higher education institutions, but also in TEI. Today, the in-depth assessments give a number of at least twenty-four thousand candidates who will be excluded by these provisions. Let's say schematically: one in three students, who would go in with the existing data to date, will stay outside and the hails will say he has failed. And yet, the government insists on telling us that the reality and the effort of the students with these arrangements is not affected. The consequences, Mr Chrysochoidis, are perfectly given. They are so given that there is no doubt that this is the purpose of your Government, the drastic reduction in the number of importers. The truth, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is that you never said that in your programme. I said that to the committee. So stop this poem of the Coupling, that you are supposed to legislate, implementing your programme, for which those who voted for you have voted. To this day, while it is evident that this is your purpose, it remains unspeakable. You don't dare, gentlemen, tell the Greek society that that's what you're doing, that's exactly what you want to do. You dare not confess to the truth. The question is why you want it. There are only two possible answers here, Mr Chrysochide. Firstly, you must force more than thousands of children to go to the private free-teaching centres, and also to colleges, of course, with the economic potential. So increase directly and drastically the tank of their customers. Secondly, you seek to reduce the country's academic infrastructure, the drunken abolition of departments, schools and HEIs. And of course, you know that the first victims will be the departments of regional universities. Nor was that in the New Democracy programme, Mr Chrysochide. And here the real purpose of the government remains undisturbed. You want to hide behind your finger again! You do not dare to tell the Greek society that this is your political decision, to close university departments and schools, not, of course, on the basis of plans, studies and such things. Oh, no! You prefer to do so by severely testing the candidates and their families. Your policy therefore despises the casualties and innocent victims. And show vulgar populism you so-called anti-populists. You mock those candidates who did not achieve a high score and aim at them as if they were the problem of Greek education. Again, the story of individual responsibility. And yet, you know what the reality is. Examinations shall be submitted to candidates with different levels of competence. The need of the system to clarify the game in the first demand and high-grade schools requires that the topics be deliberately exposed difficulty for the majority of students. To clean up the landscape, for example, in medicine, a multitude of middle students in this direction will necessarily write under the base. This normal phenomenon, which is the result of timeless examination policy, as it applies, is then used as a weapon against the candidates. That's what I mean, gentlemen of the government, vulgar populism. You are creating, slandering those who suffer the consequences of your policies. You create impressions with your communication, anti-social tactics and then you come here and invoke the polls that you have made in every way and with isolated press questions: "Are you in favour of entering our students who say and who have written under the base?" We told you again, and we told you: Studies and university degrees are not deviated from the basis of introduction. They are required from incomplete infrastructures, under-represented staff and obsessed sub-funding of higher education institutions. They also deserve the prospect of unemployment. Is that what you're going to do, Mr. Chrysochide? So the next step in your bill, Minister, is the two-stage computer, another bureaucratic inspiration that makes children experimental. In the first phase, only a limited number of options are allowed: 10% of schools for general school pupils and 20% for vocational pupils. In the second phase, only those who did not achieve the first computerised version and only those who have not completed the number of importers have participated. Diphthenic computers are a complement to the exclusion policy of importers after the import base. Here we have another government insanity, you will allow me to say. They will be introduced into the school candidates with fewer molecules and others who have gone better to the exams will be excluded, but they have not bet correctly on the first computer. But of course you consider the extent of the tests to be sound, and you use it for exclusions such as bases. But here you overthrow that logic of yours, you're breaking the performance. Once again, in order to exclude the candidates - and even unfairly - the inspiration of the government mandarins obliges the candidates to declare in the first phase a very small and only small percentage of the sections that would reasonably be of interest to them but which would also have the potential to introduce. And this accumulation of irrationalities you want to convince us that it is a system of rationalisation of choices. It is simply a system that is not going to survive and is not going to come into force for a second year. The complex, incomprehensible way of setting minimum import bases, together with the two-stage computer, will bring errors and failures in computers and create unacceptable injustices. You're playing with people's lives. There is also the second specific issue of the treatment of pupils in vocational schools. These constitute 35% of the total number of graduates. Today you are deaf again and reject a fixed and fair request from the area, that is to say, to establish a proportion of the total number of participants to the higher education institutions of the ESDP. They ask for a percentage similar to the number of candidates from the ESDP, but not less than 20%. That would be fair. However, it would also have a positive effect on technical, vocational education, since it would have changed the composition and level of classes by attracting better pupils. The antisocial character of your bill is seen to the students of the summer high school. You establish a common import basis for both daily and summer schools and abolish the special percentages of candidates for the summer schools as well. That is not equal treatment. You put additional obstacles in the effort of these children. It is a direct injustice, since you are pretending that you do not know and yet do not recognize the specific conditions of life and education of these children. I said that to the committee. I have not heard any responses, I have not heard any comments. Doesn't a member of the Couple have anything to tell us about this matter? In these two cases you show very emphatic, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of your policy. Not only are you not interested in the weak, the most vulnerable social groups, but you are consciously seeking to make their position even more difficult, to make their struggle more difficult and to punish them for their fate, for their lives. Moving on to the next issues of the bill, I will also address Mrs Keramea. So bring the unprecedented provisions for university police. What you're promoting is outrageous. Greece here envys the reactionary presence of Orban and turns to education and universities with a system that does not exist in any country of the European Union. It is true that there are police at only some universities in the United States of America. But there are several cases of mass murder within the schools there, there are a free-arm regime and there are repeated cases of mass murders there. So those who invoke this example simply invest in nonsense. In Greece, what is the reality? You've already abolished asylum at universities. So these, like all public spaces, are policed. I have asked for the debate in committee, and I would say - and you, Mr Kerameos, and Mr Chrysochide and any government MP, if you have any real evidence of the crime in the field of universities. Even bring the records that have been made over the entire period that the asylum does not apply, where the police are fully able to monitor and intercept. So far we haven't seen anything at all. On the contrary, to justify your ideological intentions, you have for years launched a communication campaign for the confiscation of universities. The channels tell us every day that crime in university spaces is being organized there, that drugs are being trafficked, etc. Ministers, like Mr Vorides, yesterday, come out on television windows and say: 'We will no longer tolerate lawlessness and destruction in universities'. That's right. A magical picture with no real elements, over-exploitation of incidents, even when it's unaccompanied, is individual and they don't characterize the academic reality in Greece. But that is what you choose, impressions towards society, the confiscation of higher education institutions, to take the next reactionary step. So we no longer need axes in political action. We're coming, Mrs. Kerameau, and the next step, in 1984. Police rule is complemented by Orwell's verification. Everywhere in universities electronic image and sound security systems, both indoors and outdoors. They are provisions that you are bringing them in and of course you are saying inconsistent and irresistible on the substance. You do not, in other words, rule out any possibility of a cross-party parliamentary dialogue and any possibility of composing opinions. Then, Mr Chrysochoidis, you are introducing a new Disciplinary Law for universities. You provide for penalties, from simple rebuke to permanent deletion. And what offences do you introduce? Listen! It is a crime that will voluntarily hamper the institution's proper functioning. What does that mean? An ambiguity that can fit everything, a wording that does not just leave room for manoeuvre, but it is obvious that it is intended to open the field for abusive manoeuvre. You are also saying, Mr Chrysochide, that it is a crime to use space without permission and noise pollution. In other words, every protest event will be allowed only if it is licensed. This is an impressive demonstration of universal authoritarianism. Unfortunately, in at least one part of your resignation this may seem entirely normal. Another characteristic aspect of your unreasonable and anti-social legislation is that for disciplinary offences in higher education institutions, Mr Chrysochide, a five-year limitation is provided for. This five-year limitation is provided for in the Criminal Code for the offences, the most serious offences under the ordinary criminal law before the felony, and there the limitation has as reference the entire life of the offender. You set up a five-year limitation when student status exists for only four years. The government's authoritarian insanity, the antisocial zeal here lies throughout its greatness. I shall mention, Mr Chrysochoidis, the unprecedented provision of Article 40(2). There it is imposed as a penalty on universities that do not comply with the draft legislation's suggestions to cut funding. Only the state has the constitutional and, above all, the essential obligation to grant higher education institutions. It is incomprehensible to think of reducing funding, which is already much lower than what is necessary, as a punishment for not adopting the proposed decisions. This money is the money of the Greek people and is intended for our children, your children and their future. It's not from your pocket, it's not from our pocket. So you cannot use them for lisbergis, for gambling and for unauthorized vulgar blackmail, and even by law. Finally, Mr Chrysochoidis, you add the provisions on time limits. You are setting up the upper limit of four plus two and five or six plus three years. There is also an issue here with the communication of counterfeiting and at the will of exploiting the facts. It appears from ELSTAT's data that over half of the cases referred to as eternal students are just old records maintained in the schools' archives. I'm going to report features of the Law School. I think I told the committee that too. Of the two thousand ninety - three - year - old ninety - five - year - old students, only four hundred fifty have been born after 1990, i.e. 15%. However, the prolongation of studies does not affect either the public, the society or the universities. There's a law, Minister, which interrupts every provision to the student. So what logic does this have? How is this intervention by the State which removes the possibility of exercising an individual right to its subject-matter, which neither unlawfully or insults another person's rights and has also acquired the right to a student under the legal procedure? It's just your idealism dominating and basic logic. This is a characteristic example. Politics will either be antisocial or it will make no sense for you. You now think that if you don't turn against society, you have no reason to exist. That is why your policy is a constant attack on society. You are no longer just a conservative government. You have, of course, deliberately been lured into reactionary and undemocratic policies. You are constantly shooting at democracy and society. So leave the false arguments with the polls. Stop showing as a preservative reflex in society. They are not the ones that characterize your policy. There are, moreover, so many other areas that are completely indifferent to the view of society. For you, the driving force is only the gene of the autocracy of your paralysis that you want to maintain and upgrade, in order to serve your ideals. Here, Mr. Ministers, the entire university community is against the bill. Rectors, congresses, teachers, teaching staff, administrative staff, students, students, parents, everyone. But that doesn't matter to you. Of course you are listening to the 'no' of society, but you will insist on and move to the end, because you are also an old-fashioned government. We will not, however, endure a buffalo of victims. Society will now speak and we will be with her. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of the sitting, there have been objections to constitutionality by three parliamentary groups, from Members of the SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the Merra25. In accordance with Rule 100(2), one of the Groups of Parliament is entitled to speak, one of the speakers, and, of course, the Minister, if any, may be the heads of the parties, otherwise the parliamentary representatives. So let me tell you what the articles are. The SYRIZA Members are asking for the unconstitutionality of the bill and especially of Articles 12, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21 to 32 and 40. The objection to anti-constitutionalism of the Change Movement concerns Articles 18 to 20 and 21 to 32. From Mer25, Articles 1, 2,5, 6,7, 8, 9, 10,12,14,15,16,18,23,33 and 34 of the draft law are insulted as unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Friend from SYRIZA has the floor. I would ask that the five minutes should be observed, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, because we are very far behind with the tolerance in the recommendations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. The compulsory application by all universities of a system of controlled access, as well as the establishment of security and surveillance systems at the premises of the institutions where scientific teaching and research is developed and directly contradicts the principles of academic freedom and full self-government. In particular, Article 12 and Article 16 of the bill, firstly, put intolerable restrictions on academic freedom, as enshrined in Article 16(1)(a) of the Constitution, and is fully protected against preventive or repressive restrictions. Secondly, they challenge the principle of full self-government, Article 16(5)(a) of the Constitution, which states: ‘Higher education is provided exclusively by institutions which are legal entities governed by public law with full self-government’ - I stress the word ‘full-time’ - as they remove critical material from the decision of the institutions of the universities, such articles as the organisation of the operation of the institution concerned and the development and conduct of teaching at the premises of the university. I stress, because I know a representative who does not have a scientific basis, but has a political target, that the self-government of universities according to the Constitution is complete. It's not practical. It's locally full of self-government. Secondly, Articles 18, 19 and 20 of the bill introducing provision for a police presence in educational establishments are in obvious misrepresentation with the constitutional custom of asylum, which is not a legislative arrangement, but is consistent with the full self-interest of the university in Article 16(5)(a). A similar constitutional custom exists throughout Europe and the United States of America and in other countries of the world. Articles 18 and 20 therefore constitute circumvention of the Constitution, because we ignore the institutional specificities of the areas of organised scientific research and teaching which do not constitute a common public space, it is not a square, and the establishment of public power without the express consent of the relevant academic bodies, obviously circumvents the constitutional principle. Compliance with the order and safety of all the premises intended to serve the operation of the HR is the exclusive responsibility and responsibility of the authorities in charge of the institution. And state power must be a distance from interventions in the areas where academic teaching and research are conducted. University asylum is inextricably linked to the freedom of scientific research and teaching. It is therefore essentially involved in safeguarding academic freedom Article 16(1)(a) of the Constitution. Academic freedom is therefore protected against legislative power, against the ordinary legislature, as only the Constitution lays down its permitted limitations. The provisions of the draft law introducing arrangements for Disciplinary Law, Article 21 to 32, and in particular the law on disciplinary infringements, Article 23, constitute arrangements which infringe the principle of full self-government of higher education institutions, given that disciplinary cases are the core of the cases managed by their own universities and regulations. More specifically, the introduction of certain disciplinary offences relating to the use of the institution's facilities and infrastructure, without the permission of its competent bodies or in order to serve purposes which are incompatible with its mission, as well as the pollution of packaged and open spaces or noise pollution raises issues of compatibility with the principle of academic freedom, Article 16.1(a), which is all the more indivisible as the members of the academic community have been indivisible. So the political and trade union activity and students at the university is clear that it has to do with the question of academic freedom. Fourthly, the transitional provisions laid down in Article 40 of this draft law, on the one hand, are based on the constitutional principle of the full self-government of universities, in so far as they define rigour and suffocating deadlines for the implementation of security and protection measures involving extensive changes in the spaces of universities, without sufficient consultation within its own administrations and, on the other hand, conflict with the constitutional requirements of higher education institutions referred to in Article 16(5)(b): ‘They are under the supervision of the State, have the right to be financially supported by it and operate in accordance with the laws relating to their institutions’. So to the extent that they depend on the distribution of the public grant to universities with the bill on the completion by the institutions of the actions required under this draft law, there is a question of unconstitutionality. Ladies and gentlemen, we are asking for these articles to be declared unconstitutional. We have raised objections of constitutionality. I do not want to go into detail. There are public interventions by distinguished constitutionalists, as well as by the Law School of Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Philly. Mr. Scandalidis has the floor from the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you said at the outset in your speech about the Parliament's Scientific Service. Evidently, her reports are respected, but they are not essential. The constitutionality is judged by the structures of justice and there, obviously, we are addressing them. We have lodged a complaint of constitutionality on Articles 18 to 20 and 21 to 32 of this draft law. Both groups are concerned with Article 16 of the Constitution. What is the constitutional framework? Article 16 safeguards academic freedom as a concept and norm of constitutional change. The protection of academic and scientific freedom is carried out through a system of institutional arrangements, including, among other things, the self-employed of scientific institutions. Indeed, according to Article 16(5) of the Constitution, higher education is provided exclusively by institutions which are legal entities governed by public law with full self-government. These institutions are under the supervision of the State, have the right to be economically supported by it and operate in accordance with the laws relating to their agencies. The establishment of the self-employed of higher education institutions is a strong institutional guarantee of its own academic freedom. Paragraph 5 of the Article calls for the promotion and protection of the free development of science in a public good. Functional protection of academic freedom is achieved through the formation of an organisational core characterised by the self-interest of educational institutions. The Constitution ensures the full self-government of the HEIs, which are not subject to direct state control, but simply to state supervision, with everything that implies for the functioning and administration of the relevant legal persons. So what is the unconstitutionality for Articles 18 to 20? Within this constitutional framework, the provisions of these articles are directly contrary to Article 16 of the Constitution and to the established self-employed of the HEIs. Indeed, from the constitutional guarantee of full self-government, it follows that the administration of HEIs is not only exercised by the institutions themselves, but includes all aspects of their administrative function: academic freedom, well-functioning of studies and activities, storage of facilities, protection of property. And, of course, they are the fundamental security asset, and that is where they form the core of each public administration. The Constitution itself confers the primary responsibility for the implementation of the legislation on the security and protection of persons and things within the scope of their competence. This was reflected - and I would remind you - in Article 5(2) and Article 6 of Law 4009/2011 which entrusted the regulation of security issues to the institutions of the HEIs themselves in the preparation of the agencies and the rules of procedure of the institutions. Consequently, the provisions of that draft law, which entrust the institutions of the narrow-minded State with that responsibility, thus creating special police departments in the premises of the HEIs, are directly unconstitutional as contrary to Article 16 of the Constitution. With regard to dealing with disciplinary matters, in the same spirit as the provisions of Articles 21 to 32 of the draft law under discussion, Article 16 of the Constitution is reinfringed in so far as it concerns the self-employed of the HEIs, in particular at the level of the disciplinary rules governing their operation. The concept of full self-government includes the right of HEIs to manage their own affairs, both financially and disciplinaryly. In addition, paragraph 6 of Article 16 of the Constitution stipulates that the teachers of the higher research institutions are public officials. The remaining teaching staff also performs a public function under the conditions laid down by the law. The situation of all such persons shall be determined by the institutions of the institutions concerned. It follows from those provisions that disciplinary rules cannot be laid down by formal law as, on the contrary, they are the responsibility of the HEIs themselves, as provided for in Article 5(2) of Law 4009/2011. Incidentally, the Constitution states that special law is needed only for the establishment of student clubs and the participation of students in them. All the others are analysed in the institutions of the respective higher education institutions. In addition, for general academic staff, i.e. staff with a service relationship with universities, it is explicitly stated that their situation, but also their disciplinary issues, are regulated by the institutions of the higher education institutions alone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Much more for those who have no service with universities, such as students, the obligation of the state to refrain from disciplinary arrangements imposed by formal law applies. Therefore, the Disciplinary Law, for both higher education officials and students, must be the subject of regulation of the institutions and regulations of universities. Consequently, the introduction after the above articles of the draft law of special disciplinary provisions is contrary to the self-government of higher education establishments, as established by Article 16 of the Constitution. Following that, Mr President, and in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, we object to Articles 18 to 20 and 21 to 32 of this draft law because of its opposition to Article 16 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to point out that perhaps the current draft law that is currently coming to Parliament for a vote is the most unconstitutional one in the last decade. Even percentage if you look at your draft law, Minister, it will be noted that from the forty above - below articles in the bill, the sixteen are manifestly - what do you say and what other expression to find? - Unconstitutional. The objections to anti-constitutionalism tabled today by Mera25 concern, as I have already announced, about sixteen of the forty in total, of which the bill is made up. Let's start over. In our view, the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 are unconstitutional. These provisions, not by themselves - and you know what this law is all about - are not unconstitutional - in a ‘hard’ combination, however, with Law 4763 which, at the end of 2020, you themselves brought, Minister, - and you know what that law is, is the famous law that enables individuals to establish here in Banana, which is called Greece colleges, which will award diplomas with equal professional rights to those of our highest educational institutions - in our opinion, they clearly run counter to paragraph 1 of Article 4, and paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 and Article 16(4), in conjunction with paragraph 2 of Article 25 of our Constitution as regards the obligation to provide free education and also paragraph 5 of Article 16S, as regards the self-governing of our universities, as the Ministerial Decision effectively abolishes the responsibility of the higher education institutions, or also, in the form of an exemption from the principle of free access to them or to any other educational establishments, from their free access to them. We also clearly regard Articles 12, 14, 15, 16 and 18 as unconstitutional. In addition to the breach of paragraph 5 of Article 16 of the Constitution concerning self-government, as it is bound to be with these articles that I mentioned that the Greek Police will be responsible for the processing of personal data, it is very much in breach of Article 16(1), which, in fact, is rocked in all these sides, as the collection of any information, whether it relates to teaching staff or students, can create - I think, there can be no corresponding - serious problems and restrictions to the freedom of academic expression, as well as to the promotion of research and science. It affects academic freedom and is brutally afflicting the democratic principle itself. With Article 23, ladies and gentlemen, every concept of university self-government - paragraph 5, of Article 16 of the Constitution - is being dismantled because Article 23 provides for things for which our universities - and that alone - should be able to provide for them. So, by intervening here the state in Disciplinary Law, effectively destroys academic selfishness and self-government. Article 33. In this respect, the provisions of Article 16(5) of our Constitution are directly violated in our view as regards the self-employed person under whom the university asylum is protected. Article 34. This provision, in the opinion of Mera25, is indirectly in breach of Article 16(1), which - I read to you - 'art, science, research and teaching are free'. In this case, no time limit is set. The constitutional legislature shall only set a time limit for compulsory education - nine years - and it shall do so quite clearly in Article 16(3). Therefore, any other time limit is directly contrary to Article 4(1) and Article 16(1) of the Constitution of Greece, of which - I must remind you for understandable reasons for all of you, but also to all of us once again from this Step - it is up to our patriotism - you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. Mr. Ploris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all for the Greek people who are following us, this is the opposition to SYRIZA's unconstitutionalism, and this is the objection of Mera25's unconstitutionalism. They were unable to record what they had orally developed, so that one could respond substantially to the objections. On the contrary, I must say that the Change Movement has its overall proposal. I say this to see how seriously the opposition in this Chamber has dealt with constitutional issues many times. Here you are trying to create a completely different picture from the one that the Constitution defines. The Constitution ensures full self-government of universities, but not autonomy. I come and read to you accurately in the analyses, as resulting from the decisions of the Council of State, 519- to plenary 24-2015 and 1013 of 2013. The operational bodies of the AITs are not established by them, but fall within the competence of the legislative authority in the light of the relevant Treaties in force in the universities, so that they can respond to the changing scientific and economic conditions. So universities can manage their affairs independently within the framework of the statutory rules of law. Legislative rules are a job here in this Chamber. The university, therefore, too, is confined to issues relating to the organization of studies, to its institutions, which are called upon to take the decisions within the HEIs, but in no case are we leading to a complete autonomy of the HEIs. And it comes here and the scientific report of the House tells you again by decision of the Council of State. Because we are not talking about the theoretical thoughts of teachers, but about the decisions that the Council of State has decided. Article 5(2) of the Constitution stipulates that those on Greek territory enjoy complete protection of life, honor and freedom. In accordance with the constitutional provisions cited above, the provision of legal protection is not left to the discretion of the State, but is an obligation of the State. And what does Parliament's Scientific Service tell you? ‘This regulation of the University Police is in line with the case law of the Council of State, which has found that the powers of observance of public order and security, prevention and repression of crime, breaches and general legislation are inseparable from the core of state power, while the legislator may, but is not obliged to delegate to other institutions and, in any case, not to private individuals. The completeness of the Council of State 16/2015’ So, we have universities that are self-sufficient and are not affected by their own self-government, but are not autonomous and are not uncontrollable. There are the constitutional requirements which lie in the harsh and unique core of the state to impose legitimacy, namely, to ensure the protection of human life and to combat crime. Now listen to something that is not a matter of constitutional order or legislative power, but of other science. You on the left are the ones who defend that state universities can only exist on the basis of your ideology, but these universities are guarded, not by the state police. In other words, on the one hand,'state' in universities, only state universities, but on the other, their guardianship is assigned to a secure! You can't even politically explain it. And let me tell you that in other structures where there is a self-defence, the police are normally located, either in the OTAs, or in Mount Athos that has full self-government. He's got two police stations inside, and there's never any question of his being affected by the police. Why? Because this is on the hard core of state power, and rightly so, the police can be and do not affect the self-defence that has to do with the issues of the powers of the university itself in how it will be organized and how it will implement the laws it is concerned with. With these thoughts and on the second side of the disciplinary misconduct again, the legislature comes here to define what are the disciplinary misconduct, but it has the university's self-employed and that will impose the penalties again according to the laws that the Constitution itself says to you, that the Greek state defines them and in the context of self-government they obey the Constitution and the laws. With regard to other matters that have been said here - because you made me feel that I am speaking to the Great Britain Parliament - nor the constitutional custom, which has been said, refers to a source as an objection to unconstitutionality. We have a written constitution here with specific provisions and it cannot be invoked by Constitutional Law to the Greek Parliament to raise the issue of unconstitutionality, nor can the provisions - I have heard it from Mera25 - be considered as unconstitutional - in conjunction with other articles which have been decided by these articles in constitutional terms. With these thoughts, then, you are coming completely pretextically and raised a plea of unconstitutionality. The Council of State itself, with a large number of decisions that I mentioned, has responded to what is self-interest, and the Scientific Service of Parliament itself comes and tells you that it is not only in our discretion, but our obligation to do what is being voted on today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pleari. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u80	My dear colleague, because you said specific things, I do not understand, you are a legal person. You heard me explain why we find these articles unconstitutionally. Is this not enough for you to understand what our arguments are? You're more capable of me. I'm an actor, you're legal. Secondly, I would like to ask you, so that we can lighten up the atmosphere a little: Have you in your mind - you, I imagine, will be a Christian me who I do not believe in the god - the Monastery of Intended Mount Athos? Do you have her in mind? It is this famous monastery, where there are footage flying molotovs in the MATs. I guess the MATs would start right at this police station you mentioned. I'm saying that so you don't say inaccurate in here. In any case, where does it appear that it cannot be unconstitutional when a combination of new provisions that come here brings this situation? That is, of course, changing the data when a law that so equates our highest education institutions has been passed with any paper that is not worth the money of the paper on which it was printed. Unconstitutionally, this development is unconstitutional and we have identified it, Mr President, in the debate on the Revision of the Constitution, that this government's intention is to abolish Article 16. It surprised us! He'll let it exist, eventually, as a shadow of himself, as a doll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. We'll put a little on the objections of unconstitutionality, too. We want to say this and it is a good opportunity to make a few things clear today, that what is happening in this Chamber, particularly between New Democracy and SYRIZA, is totally pretext. Why? Because these two major parties, which bear huge responsibility for all the suffering we are talking about today, come today to fight once again - why? - for such matters, to keep their audience alive, their party clientbook and - what do they say? - to say, "Now, guys, here's us, we disagree. See ideological differences!", while on substance it is the same thing. Why, Mr President, are their quarrels pretexts? Because, in the big and important terms, you agree with everything. You agree with the Prespes. Wasn't there unconstitutional, where an entire people were negative? In dialogue with Turkey, with The Hague, on national issues, you agree with the big and important! In the economy, in the robbery measures that this government continues to take, taking the spunk from you. In the reduced influence of islands we gave to the agreements we made with Italy and Egypt, and that is where you agree! If you get the list of SYRIZA's "yes" in the New Democracy bills, you will see that you are the party in the House that has the most "yes" in the New Democracy bills. That's what you're doing here. In the CPTs you are planting all over Greece and Evro, you agree! These are the big and important issues. Uh, let's come today and fight about our fake ideologies, our left-wing, the forgotten, the old, right-wing, - how do you characterize them? - get our audience up a little bit and what can we say? "We're alive, we're here, guys. See, chaos separates us!' No chaos. Identifying. You're the same! Do you have any concern here? You've commanded the country since 1974. A hundred bills, Minister, for education are here. Why do we have this mess today? Have you ever been concerned about why the police have to go in? We are opposed to this today. We need a special security team, not a police team. Why does the police have to get in here today? Why are you concerned or are you only concerned about getting in? Why? Didn't he ever bother you? We'll tell you what is unconstitutional, gentlemen, all in here today! Unconstitutional is not to have our young people studying there work tomorrow. That's unconstitutional. Anti-constitutional is to leave our children abroad and that's why it's all your fault! That's unconstitutional. Anti-constitutional is the legislator himself, the legislator himself, who today legislates the laws, does not apply them and write his old shoes in society! That's unconstitutional. Anti-constitutional is that Greeks can't leave their homes. That's unconstitutional. Anti-constitutional is an entire people forced to obey TV proclamations every day, without being the laws of the state, but "I decide at 6 p.m. you are not allowed to go out and at 9 p.m. I change it every day" without being legal. It's TV! That's unconstitutional. You can barely force the vaccination. And that's unconstitutional. These are serious issues. Who's to blame for all this? But you agree with everything I've mentioned! You know what else is sad and not unconstitutional? The figures, the European data on the situation and ranking of the Greek universities throughout Europe and the world, where we should be ahead and unfortunately, we are in the seventy-third place in Europe, the Kapodistrian, the EMCDDA, an eighteenth in the world. Two hundred and fifty-five A.D. in the world! These are indicative, and I will submit them for the Minutes now. Here's the list. Take it, see your responsibilities! These are your responsibilities on a piece of paper, our universities' categorization! And we're talking here today about bubbles. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know what else is offensive to Greece? International media, such as the 'DIE WELT', write that Greek universities offer a safe haven for gangs. I'm tabling this for the Minutes and that. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And "REUTERS" writes that in Greek universities the problem with drug trafficking is chronological. The first were unconstitutional, and what I'm reading to you now is insulting. And I shall close with that, Mr President, why do you want to talk about it later in the debate? Are you determined to help or want to play your political game for your audience? Get out of education and university parties! You have made our children our young party robots. From high school you water them, bottle them, poison them, prepare the armies of tomorrow and come here today hypocritically to solve the problem. Well, no, we're leaving you alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u84	We just heard the Golden Dawn proposal. That's what Golden Dawn said, "outside the parties, outside the campus!" That's what Golden Dawn said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u85	Whoa! You're changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u86	Isn't that what you said? "Outside the parties and the parties and you have done and built."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u87	That's the kind of hit we don't do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u88	Should students and universities not have political perceptions?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u89	Get it back! That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u90	Shouldn't they be organizing and fighting? What does it mean "outside the parties and out..."? That's what you said!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u91	Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u92	Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u93	Please don't shout!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u94	That's what you said. That's what Golden Dawn said. No other party has said so officially, at least. Isn't that right? [[Noise from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u95	The dirty game, let it go, Thanasis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u96	Wait a minute, Mr. Palphie. Mr. Heta, listen to me. If you think the content has been altered, I will give you the floor, because it is in the second indent of Article 67, so clarify the alteration.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u97	But obviously!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u98	Well, we all hear brains and we know. We have not tabled a proposal for unconstitutionalism, although we believe that - and you will understand why - it is unconstitutional, because it is a political issue. Clearly political is the point. Of course, there are issues of unconstitutionality. Sure. But for those who see us and listen to us, I would like to make a few points. First theme: The experience of all these years of unconstitutionalism is that no law has ever been rejected in the House, unless there is any exception since 1974 for two, three years, never, ever, nor one law, nor articles for reasons of unconstitutionality. Why? For whoever has one hundred and fifty decides what is constitutional and what is not. But it's hypocrisy. Secondly, as far as I know - I do not want to be absolute, but this is what it is - when a party is in opposition, raises objections to unconstitutionalism, rejects them for some of the same issues. When the government changes, it becomes the exact opposite, the backwards. In other words, the government supports constitutionality and the opposition is once again beginning unconstitutionalism. And all this kitten is a mockery - in our opinion - towards the Greek people. We're not underestimating the conversation. Thirdly, no government - as far as I know, and as far as we know - has not abolished laws that it had characterised as opposition anti-constitutional. Is there anywhere a suggestion - there may be an exception - that we are abolishing the law of the SYRIZA, which you had objected to, why was it unconstitutional or SYRIZA unconstitutional in all the changes of legislation, which says that it was unconstitutional? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course, there is a parameter here - because you are talking about democracy, independence, etc. - that the Euro-Union law of the Hellenic Republic prevails. Yes or no? You have all accepted this, except for the JRC. Is that or not a violation of national - let's say - independence? It is. Fifth theme, which is the most important: The Constitution makes it elastic. Each government interprets it as it wants every time. Don't tell me about the Council of State, Mr. Plearis. I do not say that all decisions are like this, but acts in a specific context and the Council of State is appointed by the governments. I am not saying that there are any good decisions or that there are no people who resist them. I am talking about the Council of State as a whole. Therefore, every government interprets according to what we have seen and now. We have heard the interpretation of the rest, we have heard the interpretation of Mr Ploiris and indeed of documentaries. What do you think? That you're gonna convince us and believe it? No, of course not. For example, it says in Article 16: ‘Higher education is provided exclusively by institutions which are legal entities governed by public law, with full self-government’. It says "with full self-government". Let me ask you: Equivalence of degrees is what? Does he break it or not, when a person goes to a private college, and actually is the degree appreciated, with those tricks you've done, with a university? That's what SYRIZA did. Why don't you put that as an anti-constitutional? Is it unconstitutional or isn't it? What do you mean? The European Union Directive and the general strategy. That's a matter. Now for the rest. It says 'full self-government'. This is a game with self-government, and that is a political decision. Because you have not kept the guards and sent them away, you have fired them, and because there are no civil servants who will be in the university, and they will - in any case - supervise them, they will help to avoid such issues. Why don't you do it? Why do you put police in the university? Into the university! You're talking about crime. Tell us all of you, for so many years, the mess that's been going on in the pavement - as you say it's a mess, that's it. Give the drugs that's been going on, why didn't the police catch it? Was it a matter of being inside? Oh, no. They couldn't catch it from the outside? But the police are downloading five thousand MDs in the protest. One day we will ask you to tell us where the police are and what they aim to do, because instead of hitting crime, they go and go against the people's mobilisations. We therefore say that on the basis of the interpretations made by everyone, we consider that they are unconstitutional, in general and not a matter of legal arguments. And finally, according to Article 16 "All Greeks have the right to free education, at all levels, at the state schools". That's free education. Can't you erase it better? You're making fun of the world! What free education? All generations pay their head hair so that they can secure a place. And you come today and you cut off thirty thousand mostly poor kids from the university, because that's how you want it. We, therefore, support this proposal, consider the issue to be more general policy and must stop the very lifting of the Constitution. Otherwise you could decide otherwise. And that would be unconstitutional and if it were the opposite. This is the situation, so the people don't have any delusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u101	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Scandalidis, would you like to speak again? If the parliamentary representative is missing, here you are. Although I think it's over. Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Friend spoke as sayings. You can speak as a parliamentary representative. I have given the floor to Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, can I answer for two seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u104	Let me explain...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u105	I think the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u106	Let me tell you, let us remember the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 68, it has two staff cases. The first is for behavior that was inappropriate to you or abusive, and the second is if what you said was altered. Give an explanation of what you said, to be seen as ending the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u107	I think that the Rules of Procedure apply to both of you, Mr President. And what I said was inappropriate, but the behavior was inappropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u108	Give us a clarification. He didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u109	Didn't he say anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u110	He said something like that said another party.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u111	He likened the Greek Solution, a party of jewelry in the Greek Parliament, which, from you, Mr President, from the Bureau to the last official of the Parliament, all talk about the Greek Solution, about the quality of these children and their work in here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u112	I said that was the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Paphie, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u114	And it comes - it's the third time that the JRC does this - and compares us to some convicted prisoner! This thing is incredible! At least I'm returning it to him! This is unacceptable for us, Mr Palhei, because we have been acquainted with each other for a year and a half. The blows underneath the waist are subtle. We never do. What did I say, Mr. Paphie? I didn't tell outside politicians from the universities. I said outside parties from the universities, not politics. Obviously, there must be politics and it does well, but don't misinterpret and don't be so obsessed with the Greek Solution. We're not your enemy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u115	You've become clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u116	And I will end, because they were pity, Mr President, what was said about the Golden Dawn. We, Mr President, in our statute - and Mr Pafilis will also do so - do not ask for the abolition of democracy or for financial control.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u117	He didn't match you with the Golden Dawn. He said an argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u118	I don't suppose he'd deny any other economic control party. We're at your disposal. Please don't let that slip happen again. It's a disgrace. I think we've been through another era, Mr. Palphie now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u119	Well, the clarification was given. Come on, Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Two, three words I want to say, this time more political, because I was caused by Mr. Plearis' position. He essentially documented his position on the report of the Scientific Committee and analysed the difference in the hard core of rights with the rest and how it is the central government's duty to deal with similar problems. I want to make two, three very obvious political remarks. Is it accidental that no one so far, any government thought of taking a step further and putting the police in the universities? Oh, no. It is accidental that successive laws were trying to approach the issue so that the self-employed would not be abolished, in accordance with Mr Chrysochide's statement when he went down the asylum law? Is it accidental that your asylum law didn't work, so it didn't solve this problem? And now you go one step further. What's this step? It has a purely political dimension. You are reasoned "it hurts tooth, I cut head". You are reasoned how an authoritarian authority responds to a necessary reform. While what would be a progressive reform? When we say that the democracies do not do their job as they should, there are two reasons. One is their political will and their capacity, and the second is the conditions on the basis of which they can do this work to keep the self-employed. So instead of making the conditions, to do their job well and to remain the university's own self-interest, you choose the opposite. You choose to substitute them. This is done for the mayor who does not exercise power when assigned to him, who is illegal. It would be more sensible to bring in a number of sanctions for those who do not exercise the power conferred on them. This is a public body and the reform that needs to be done rather than taking away from it the powers and capabilities, which are much more serious than the municipality or a general public body. So, you should, if you want to reform the matter and really solve it, bring additional choices that have to do with the ability of the rector authorities to exercise the university's self-interest. You don't do that. You don't dare do it. And you bring the easy solution, the police at the universities. We're telling you there's nowhere police in the universities in any part of the world. And you say that there is one particular thing here, because the unscrupulous things that each describes in their own way are done. It's not like that, though. The reform requires deep, progressive and institutional functioning. You don't take away the institution when you want to make a reform. You amplify him and make him be able to do his job. That is the fundamental difference and that is the unconstitutional one. The self-government presupposes that the Republican authorities and the administration of the university have the terms and conditions to exercise the self-employed. You're the one who's abolishing the self-contained. It is unconstitutional, a political self-government, as Mr Pafilis would have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are four specific provisions contained in the bill we are debating, which are mainly against the constitutional authorities. The first is the installation of security systems and signals, their control and their recording. The second is the protection team of university institutions, i.e. the police under the control of ELAS. The third is the arrangements for Disciplinary Law at the IOIs, outside the opportunity given on the basis of self-employed by the universities themselves to deal with these issues through their own regulations. The fourth extortion is that if there is no adaptation by universities to these provisions, then there will be a corresponding impact on the distribution of annual regular grants, which is a constitutional obligation. So she's placed under sect and under control. If the universities refuse to operate on the basis of the constitutionally fortified self-declared self-declaration, they do not apply what you are coming today to establish, you will cut their money. But be careful. Recently, a constitutional revision has been made. The Greek Parliament was placed and has not changed Rule 16. Is he missing it? Did this whole conversation mean anything? So how do you come and put aside this whole debate in this House, the previous Parliament that started the process of constitutional revision and tell us that there is a generalised check, in common, an audit that is above the self-employed. Look out, they're incompatible concepts. The constitutionally regulated self-government of universities and generalised common control are incompatible. You cannot invoke what is self-evident, such as committing certain criminal offences, where specific procedures are provided for to come the police when life is threatened. You've brought two laws on this subject twice. Didn't you bring? And now you come and beat exactly the core of constitutional principles of full self-government of universities and academic freedom. You drive things into adventures. It's obvious. For this law, apart from the fact that it will not be applied in practice - as you have post-political experiences - will also be swallowed constitutionally. However, you do not care. Watch out. More and more - I will not say what Mr Pafilis said - you do not remember the New Democracy of the first post-military period. You remember the Greek solution. I really don't know, but I hope the TV puts titles when the parties' representatives talk, so they don't get confused. The arguments we have heard from you all previous days identify you and make you a single political area. It is the New Democracy after the incision of the presidency by Antonis Samaras, which is cutting its ties to the post-doctoral caramanlic New Democracy. It's the New Republic of Vorides, Georgiadis, LAOS. I didn't forget you guys. It is the New Democracy, which, in the end, is increasingly comparable to the constitutional intentions - interpretations made by Mr Erdogan. There we see such constitutional interpretations. I think, therefore, that you should respect the Constitution, deal, if you like, with any issues of breaches that exist, which are individual. Stop this propaganda, which, along with the assistance of the media, presents the Greek universities as an inconvenience and everything else, which goes without saying: Put the foundations of a policy of effective university protection through permanent recruitment, which the Rector authorities will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too. Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, since the process of discussing this innovative reform bill on education started this morning, we have been following a theatre of maximum hypocrisy within this House. The political forces of inertia and regression of rabies attempt to block the debate of the bill. We saw it at the beginning of the debate, when the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman steadfastly made the proposal to suspend the debate in Parliament and to stop the operation of the House, while at the same time hypocritically calling on the world to gather and clashes! It is now taking the second step: these political forces of inaction are coming and invoking the Constitution extremely hypocritically on the basis of the unconstitutionality of the law we are debating today in plenary to prevent it from discussing again. The evidence invoked by unconstitutionalism is two: firstly, the abolition of the self-employed of higher education in universities and, secondly, the restriction of university academic freedom. That's right. That's the reality. Personally, Mr President, as a citizen, as a Member of Parliament over all these years and as a Minister, I have experiences - and I think they are common experiences of the entire Greek people - it is what is recorded in a popular way in the critical question 'Would you want change in education, on the crucial issue of universities?', is the very opposite. Today, neither the Constitution nor the self-interest nor that of academic freedom are truly respected. Because it cannot be academic freedom to "build" reefs, nor can it be academic freedom to put labels on the front of universities, events that are not happening anywhere but in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u125	Tell us about Katasafad!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u126	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u127	And at the same time, the self-employed and the documentation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u128	Tell us about Katsafad.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Philie, first, with respect, I have not interrupted you. Secondly, if we now begin to name SYRIZA's responsibilities, the roots and interconnection of SYRIZA with the forces of violence and the incitement of such forces to universities, we will be discussing months. But anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u130	But you don't respect history. Your Minister, the trumpet...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Philly, you're not writing what you're saying, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u132	You made him a minister, the trumpet!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Philly, is that what we're dealing with? Is it possible to speak like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u134	Please! Is that what we're dealing with now? Is it possible to speak like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, take care of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u136	Go on, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u137	You see, SYRIZA's in confusion and panic, he sees the popular curse, he sees that he's in the corner, and he can't throw a word, but what's he doing? It interrupts, which we have never done with respect for their positions. The reality, Mr President, is this: the Constitution is not being observed today. Today there is no freedom for teachers and teachers to speak in. Today, ideas cannot be moved freely within universities. Today academic freedom is being violated. And that, gentlemen of SYRIZA, we're trying to change. And what you are putting as unconstitutionalism a moment ago by the excellent lawman, Mr. Ploris, documented them and answered you with the articles of the Constitution, invokes the two decisions of the Council of State, but also the one which you often invoke, the Legal Service of Parliament, which says that they are not only constitutional, but are defending the Constitution the legislative initiatives of the Government and of the Minister, Mrs. Kerameos. That's the reality. But what's behind it? It simply hides that Greece, which needs to be changed and must be changed by reforms, this government has the political will to change it and take it forward. And you, as powers of inertia, don't want to change anything. You want us to stand still in the same place as we are, in many things that we have seen in the field of education for many years now, as your Parliamentary spokesman has invoked, and we are inactive and we are doing nothing. So, looking at the government, the Minister of Education, the Minister of Civil Protection, the whole of the Greeks, because to them we have mentioned, Mr Phile, we say: go ahead with the reform! Greece will change, we will not be prevented by the forces of regression and inertia. Go ahead, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Minister has the floor to close the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u140	Nothing has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, there is one issue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u142	It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, there is one issue. Mr. Brutsis said that SYRIZA is associated with force of violence. If he has evidence, he can take them to the district attorney, or he can withdraw and not be written in the Minutes. This thing can't be done. These days are over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u144	Give me a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u145	Let Mr. Skourletis answer about the SYRIZA position on Koufantina and why he did not erase his members asking for his release. That's to answer first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u146	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u147	You'll get the minutes, and if you think there's a problem, there's an appeal. I am not speaking criminally, there is also the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics if you think it is too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u148	Isn't it provocative for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u149	But that's why I said to give clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u150	I answered, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u151	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, I would like to respond with four points to the positions that have been developed by the opposition parties on the constitutionality of the arrangements that we are discussing. Point 1, the self-government of universities continues directly, directly linked to the constitutional principle of academic freedom and to the principle and functionality. Self-government serves academic freedom, i.e. unblocked scientific thought, research, teaching, individual right of the university researcher or teacher who is engaged as an organised activity within the framework of higher education institutions, a right which is not restricted beyond those resulting from the obligation of respect by the university teacher, the researcher of the other provisions of the Constitution. So, ladies and gentlemen, the self-government of universities is defined by academic activities and, simply to say it, self-government is a matter of matter, not by place. Point two. The legislator has no power, he has an obligation to safeguard this right, this principle of academic freedom, to ensure that the work of universities is carried out without hindrance, as the Council of State has repeatedly considered. The emergence of this obligation is also the general police task of preventing and suppressing criminal offences. It is precisely that it organises and establishes, with the establishment of the IPO, a special policing body, the legislator, in the light of the undeniable data available to us, that we need to strengthen the safety of our universities. Point 3, this general policing we are discussing is a matter of competence - Mr Ploris said extremely recently - of the hard state core, only to the Greek Police, and it is not locally limited by the competence of any other body. Ladies and gentlemen, when there is a security issue, a question of criminal offences, a matter of criminal offences, all public spaces are the same. And in the spaces of the HEIs, the law of the state applies, as everywhere in the Greek territory, to the law of the state. This is exactly what the Scientific Service of the Parliament decided in 2019, in 2021 again. And I would remind you that under Law 4623, it is clearly foreseen that the police authorities can exercise all their powers under law within the universities and intervene in the event of criminal offences being committed without any involvement by the university authorities, and that is precisely to shield constitutional rights even more. Question: Can this exercise of police duties be entrusted to private companies? An explicit answer to the case-law of the Council of State: No, because it is placed in the hard core of the state, is a competence that cannot be assigned. Decision No 2192/2014 of the Council of State found that the national defence, public order, state security, more specific manifestations of which constitute the prevention and repression of crime as exemplary public powers and expressions of sovereignty are responsibilities inseparable from the core of state power. That is why the Council of State has considered that this competence cannot be granted, which touches the hard core of the state. Nor can a body carrying out full police duties with the republican authorities be subject to it, because this state competence belongs precisely to the core of the state and is legally entrusted exclusively to the Greek Police and for one more reason. The very nature of these self-government authorities, such as universities, such as OTAs, is inconsistent with the exercise by their institutions of police powers. Shall we just say it? Will the dean give an order for arrest? The dean will of course deal with academic issues. As the police are not meant to intervene in the university exams, the dean is not meant to make the leader of the Greek Police, to arrest the drug dealer, i.e. interfere with the hard core of public power. And I would like to agree entirely with Mr Ploris that the objections put forward by the opposition parties are amazed. SYRIZA, no documentation. Merra25, no documentation. The Change Movement has a documentation. But let me point out this, Mr Scandalides, so that we can be clear. Write to your proposal: "Building this type of special police department in the premises of the AEI, this is directly unconstitutional". We deny that, Mr Scandalides, there is nowhere in the bill. There's no establishment of a police station. Let's be clear. Fourth point and I shall close, Mr President. Another self-employed, another autonomy. According to the Constitution and the case law of the Council of State, self-government is limited to the application of the rules of law governing the organisation, operation of our universities. This is another right to lay down rules, which is a right that we all have in common. That's autonomy. Our universities have no autonomy, they have a self-interest. There is a very important difference between the two. I'll tell you one example. The legislator sets out the rules according to which teachers are elected at universities. Universities apply these rules. It does not establish the university itself the rules on the basis of which the LAG members are elected. It is precisely the same to apply to disciplinary matters. It is a fundamental difference in constitutional law between autonomy and self-government. So these measures which we are proposing to legislate will be called upon for universities to implement them, specialize them. Here, in part of the Disciplinary Law, it is very important that the implementation of this framework is explicitly foreseen by the members of the academic community themselves, by the institutions of the HEIs. The application of rules that we have established or enact as a legislator in general is therefore excluded from the administration of HEIs. The legislator sets the rule and the universities apply it and specialize it. And I'm closing, Mr. President. We have a constitution in the country. Under this Constitution, our universities are not autonomous, they are self-government. The government supports the constitutionality of the provisions of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been completed, in accordance with Article 100 of the Constitution on unconstitutionality, which has been put forward. I would suggest that the vote should be one for all objections to unconstitutionalism. We will not actually apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, because they cannot now be applied in view of the lack of the necessary number. We are going with the practice that we are now conducting because of a coronary, that is to say, the principle of declared. And so we have to go, regardless of the fact that I cannot say what the majority will be if there was a quorum. So I do not think there is any objection. That is how we did the previous votes on unconstitutionalism. So let's vote - the parliamentary representatives - on the principle of declared. Mr. Gregorydis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u154	In defence of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Hetas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u156	Against the objection of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Paphis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u158	In defence of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Scandalides?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u160	In defence of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Skourlet?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u162	In defence of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u164	Against the objection of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u165	A majority has therefore been formed. Unconstitutionalism cannot pass, according to the principle of declared. We will not now say that there is no number of votes required. In addition, under Rule 67 of the Constitution, if applicable, the seventy-fifth Members should be here. So anyway, there's a problem. The objections to anti-constitutionality are therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, do you have any idea how much this meeting is going today?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u167	By 12 o'clock at night. That is what I know from the Bureau's programme. Tomorrow's gonna be a regular program. I'm not in charge. It's gonna come out today, obviously. Let us move on, let me know and let you know during the debate. We're starting the first circle of speakers. I call to Stepma the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the future of each society depends on the educational system and the supplies it gives the new generation. Education has a decisive influence on the future of our children, tomorrow of the place. That is why we must, with a sense of responsibility, dare to deepen areas which have had to be done for years now. The bill under discussion attempts to put end titles to chronic pathogens, outdated perceptions, distortions and barren fetishes, such as asylum. Unfortunately, in our universities, they are now acting backward, marginal, which impose their own law, authoritarianism, threat, and even violence. We have reached the point where fear leads to self-criminality, to curtail the free thinking, the core of the university's existence and functioning. We have been talking for years about these pathogens, but they are tempered by those who tried to do something. Most have avoided harming the bad texts. Some, of course, in previous governance ended it, in common. They've forgotten the pathogens to the fullest extent. They bailed excellence as a reciprocity. They invented the jackass and the trumpets in a movement. Perhaps this shocking experience eventually benefited, because the morbid obsessions and objectives of defenders of minor effort and tolerance were really revealed, if not politically covering the vandals of universities, vandals like those who once built the door of their teachers' offices or those who beat Professor Syrgos, now State Secretary for Education because he dared to comment on them, but also those who recently tagged the dean of the Economic University, as the Nazis did in the Jews in the Mesopolitan War, or those who hanged an extremist banner of Koufontina and the heinous murder of Paul Bakoyannis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to change the page without further delay. Faced with this change, there are reactions from those who are at the present stand. But it is a sadly noisy minority, which unfortunately finds political coverage. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education bill aims to lay the foundations for the reconstruction of higher education. A prerequisite for this is to eliminate the nuclei of lawlessness within the IOAs, to dismantle the teams of bullies, to leave the universities, to hold a sense of security and tranquility at last. Any attempts that have been made so far have failed mercifully. I really listen carefully to the criticism of police domination for the establishment of the university institution protection team. However, I do not hear any substantial counter-proposals. I hear she will be unique throughout Europe. Yes, sir. But where else is violence and terrorism being committed to the universities? Where else are the bazaars, drug trafficking sites, as well as shelters in all kinds of offenders? Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the major subject of the TEI import base. It is indeed outrageous to introduce students into universities at degrees well below the base. Until when are we fondling ears? What are these kids doing at college when they ignore the basics? When a candidate enters a "0.8", i.e. with a white glue, what hope does he have to finish studying? Who benefits from such a paradox? The student who's going to lose a few years of his life without success? His parents, who can, by their inability, provide financial support to their child so as to end up unskilled and unemployed? Maybe the property tenants or the suffrages in the area are benefiting. However, neither the person concerned nor the education. And the state must, above all, be concerned with the education and progress of young people. The minimum degree of introduction determined by the institutions themselves is a self-evident act of rationalisation and justice. The same applies to the clearing of so-called 'eternal students'. Probably another Greek originality. How can universities function properly? How can they be programmed when almost one of two undergraduate students is “eternal”? In other words, he either left his studies because he is not interested in them, or because he is unable to complete them, because he does not have the basis for attending the courses. For universities, however, 'eternal students' are awkward. Where else is that happening? If there is no good reason, a student must complete his or her studies in a reasonable time, such as the one provided for in this legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing aims to cure parents' sins in higher education. Apart from governmental determination, however, there is also a need for cooperation between the educational community, particularly among teachers who are often victims themselves. We expect them more courageously. To hide the problem under the carpet, as often happens, simply to make it more unresolved. Now's the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u169	I would like to thank Mr Charakopoulos very warmly because he has made very good use of time. Let me know about the previous question I asked. I have consulted the President on the three days and the sittings will be from 10 a.m. to 12 a.m., except on the last day that we do not know where it will lead to the end, because we have a roll-call vote. Mr Katrugalos from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. The new Republic's rapporteur had the idea of paralleling the law we are discussing with the 1964 reform. I have sought in the Papuaux memoirs how he then described the right-wing attitude towards this reform. What was more, the Right characterized this first really progressive reform. What's next is in introductorys, from Papanouts' memoirs. He therefore called it an "anti-national and unholy conspiracy of arrogant and atheistic overthrowers of our national education". And Papanoutsos continues: "The national-faithful MPs attacked bluntly and proclaimed to all tons that if this oppressive program is implemented, the nation will be cut off from its Greek Christian tradition and Western civilization, it will change and land." Why am I talking about this? Two are the reasons. The first is to tell you that the bill you bring is not coming to solve real problems, but just to serve an ideological message. The second and much worse for you, ladies and gentlemen, is that this ideological message indeed reminds EPE of the 1960s and not the party of Constantine Karamanlis after 1974. That is why our parliamentary representative said that when you speak, you remember Greek solution. You remember. What's the problem with the Greek university? The sub-financing and its sub-delegation. We have in Greece the highest proportion of students per member of academic staff in the European Union, 38.7 versus 15.3 of the European average. Almost a third of us are left alone, or rather a third from the European point of view is our own figure. And we have the second highest proportion of police officers per 100 thousand people after Cyprus. You don't come to face lawlessness, but send a message about law and order. The fact that the problem you have to deal with does not appear firstly - as Mr Scandalides mentioned - from the fact that before the unconstitutional abolition of asylum there was the possibility of an automatic intervention by the police authority for every crime against life and for every felony and obviously after your own legislative intervention there was no problem - if there were any real need - to be called and intervened by the police. Besides, if the friend of State, who said - in his statement to ERT, on 5-2-2021 - is right, that if things calm down, the police will be withdrawn, what is the reason to proceed to a permanent special arrangement, in a special House and, exceptionally, in the way in which the police are commanded by the pan-Hellenic police, to repeat praetarian operations? We've seen it many times in the past similar bodies to have a relationship of transporting vessels to the extreme right. The truth about it again has escaped from your general rapporteur. What he said verbatim “The models of university autonomy have been tested and they have all failed. ” Just the constitutional self-government of the university, which is not a peculiar legality of your constitutional legislature, is disturbing. Where's she going? In tradition beginning with the Renaissance and ending in Enlightenment, universities are protected from the interventions of power, initially of feudal and monarchal, then of the church. So to this European example of liberalism and rights is your intervention. That is why there is not a single country in the world that has the police in the university. After all, not only politicians in your area who have been differentiated from you, such as Mr Antonaros, Mr Spiliotopoulos, but also Mr Sioufas and Mr Fortsakis, the former dean of the Kapodistrian University. But there is another more important problem, which shows not just an ideological position, but a specific class orientation in the way the university is treated. Let me start with something that has not been very careful about. You establish in Article 4 as an alternative for those who participate in the pan-Hellenics, other than the universities, the IEK. There really is another big misunderstanding here between what an IEK does and what a university does. It is also the training that gives professional skills, other than education, which is intended to open up people's minds as well. Actually, what you're doing is transfer to a law of Mr. Mitsotakis' opinion that the Refrigerants Pleasant has to make rather than scientists. And your argument here is not excellence, as you refer to it, for example, in establishing a basis for grading. If you really think it is necessary to have an import rating basis, will you extend this regulation to colleges, which are again regulated by your constitutionally problematic, are you treating them as equal to the universities of the country? Besides, to tell things by their name, the introductory exams are a comparative success contest. Any children involved in it have been judged to be absolved of their knowledge because they have been dismissed. The difficulty of the examinations is therefore to determine the success of a comparative classification. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to say it differently. The reason why the examinations have the difficulty and conclude that several children do not concentrate the rating basis is the need for large-scale schools, such as medical, legal, to actually differentiate the candidates, which are still between '19' and '20'. It is not considered whether the candidates have the foundations that enable them to attend the courses, because this has already been judged by the dismissal. Because I have completed my time, let me just two brief remarks, Mr President. This preference in private colleges - class selection and selection against the public university - is expressed in two ways. It is said, let's say marketplace, in the statements by Mr.Adoni Georgiadis in 2013 that "the diplomas of colleges are not just worthy, they are better than those of public universities". But it is also served by statements such as the Minister for Civil Protection that "they are addicted to violence and crime and cannot react to these phenomena". The truth is that the best college in the country is two thousand seats in the world ranking under the best public university, which belongs to 3% of the best universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u171	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u172	One final sentence and I shall end, Mr President. Thank you very much for your tolerance. And we're talking about 'Deree', at least one serious institution that's not a supermarket like most of the country's colleges. The truth, unfortunately, Minister, is that your choices show that you have returned to periods of Greek right that I personally considered to be outdated. You have your transcripts. You have Mr. Pierracakis. You have Mr. Chrysochoid. You self-advertise that you are the first government to have a homosexual minister, as if they were being promoted with this market "pinkwashing" the rights and struggles of the LGBTQ community. The exact opposite happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u173	Hang up, Mr. Catrugale. You're having trouble with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u174	But when you scratch this coating, we find it underneath those who wanted the dedication of Papanoutsu. Not the believers, but the religious ones. Not the patriots, but the nationalists and the patriots. And when you wonder how it is possible to say that the law will not be applied and that it will be bogged down and that this is an insult to the Constitution, I would remind you that Article 120(2) of the Constitution requires that Greeks respect the Constitution and the laws agreed with it, not anti-constitutional laws. From Hungary of Orban to Law No.815/1979 society has shown that laws unfair, contrary to European traditions and Enlightenment are not applicable, but are actually abolished. This will also be the case with the legislative abortion you are proposing today in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u175	If we continue with this use of time, then it cannot be sufficient to speak a hundred and fifty-eight Members who are registered. Please warmly for keeping the seventeenth. And because everyone is listening to us and is preparing to come to Stepma, to adjust their speech to seven minutes, with a small tolerance that cannot exceed one minute. Before I invite the next speaker, Mr Anastasio Hadjivassiliou, to make an announcement in Stepma. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice shall submit its report to the Prime Minister's draft law: ‘Integration into national law of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 and other provisions’. Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with something self-evident. Young people are the largest capital in this country and it is our responsibility to invest in their future, to ensure quality education, to ensure that students have a safe and creative environment for their inclusive commitment to knowledge. We are proud to see Greeks taking the lead in international competitions every day and we are even more proud that the Greek universities are constantly going to the world ranking. These universities we want to support. That is why the government brings this bill and at the same time increases the education ministry's budget by 142 million, as well as its projects through the NRP by 90 million euros. Today, then, we are voting for a major reform that upgrades higher education. The government adds value to the Greek university, which has so far made excellent world - wide scientists. But to be competitive, we must follow our times. So I start with the minimum import base for which the institutions themselves will now have a say. This strengthens the autonomy of the schools selected by the same classes, which will be important and which lessons will judge the introduction of candidates. Why, then, create hopes for a child who is admitted to an '3' grade in a school that is almost certain they will never complete? In addition, the two phases of submission of the compiler are intended to increase the chance of someone studying where they wish, not where they were accidentally introduced. So the need for relocations will also be reduced. What do we get? On the one hand, we acquire more satisfying, more comprehensive scientists and, on the other, the family budget is considerably reduced. I'm one of the people they've studied at a Greek public university. I believe in this, as I believe in the new generation that is struggling to study in schools with international standards and that is completely modern. We cannot give up children in their luck, nor can parents who spend their time in their misery. We owe all of them a high level of publicity to a Greek university. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about police rule. These have no place in Greece of 2021. Our democracy is too mature. We are therefore all called upon to accept reality if we want to be honest. At the university today, freedom of expression is most threatened by minorities that have emerged into self-invited expressionors of truth, violence against all different viewpoints. Didn't you happen to find yourself in events or lectures that were cancelled because some arbitrary decision was made? Haven't you seen what happened to the OPA dean, teacher beatings regardless of which political area they come from? Is that the freedom of expression? And I wonder: Can we today invite a scientist to an amphitheatre with innovative or subversive, unusual views without having to sing? So the government's aim is not to police at universities. The aim is to protect academic freedom, ensure pluralism and uninterrupted knowledge. To do this, we must protect the university from the 'unknown', from those who have many institutions, unfortunately, blocks of a umbilical, misery. So what does today's bill say? He says only those who are related to the university will have access to his premises. The university is neither a square nor a beach. It is an area of research and learning and its facilities are the property of the Greek people and must be protected. Only in infringible institutions will the Special Groups for the Protection of the European System of Central Banks operate. So let us not demonize security under the false mob of police rule. We want free students and teachers, we want free movement of ideas, not drugs and molotovs. Let us not confuse freedom with immunity. Today, then, what Greek society is asking for is finally becoming reality. Even a recent survey shows that almost four out of ten SYRIZA voters agree with the police at universities. The deterioration of public and private property must be stopped here and now. From the post-mortem to the present day, reality has been celebrating those who say that by dialogue and willingly remove the offenders from the universities. Another element is the time limit of study. Let us be honest, students without limit are dissipating the function and degrading the value of studies. One cannot study ten or fifteen years without good reason. I'll give a simple example. At the School of Civil Engineering at the National Technical University there are currently students registered in the 20th second semester. In, and, Statistics courses, the registered ones exceed nine hundred, while the actual students are just fifty. So this is not happening in any advanced country in the world. The existence of 'eternal students' pulls the university down, does not favour the speech, does not favour the research. So when I choose to study, I make a serious commitment. Of course, the bill provides for provision for students who are unable to attend due to insurmountable circumstances. And that's right, that's right. The opposition says that the government supports private interests. But it's just the opposite. An upgraded public university is becoming competitive as well. It is the image of the dissolved institutions that urges the parent to send his child either to a college or to a university abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is based on the common sense of the 21st century. In our universities, yes, there are high-quality spots that are internationally distinguished. Our aim is to multiply them. It is the only way to attract more students, Greeks and foreigners who will trust the Greek university and choose it consciously. So we will give our country's minds the opportunity to create new knowledge, so the country will go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u177	Thank you to Mr Hatzidis and to keep time. The honourable Member now has the floor, Mr. Georgios Kaminas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest real reform in higher education was PASOK's No.4009/2011 Prime Minister George Papandreou, with Minister Anna Diamantopoulou. And just because it was a real reform, it was fought hard by the "Dight" and "left" establishment of our universities, as well as secondary education. The 'left' and 'left' are a figure of speech, ladies and gentlemen. This is, in fact, a epidermal distinction, where controversies are exhausted in matters of power and power within universities and do not concern academic problems. It is, in fact, a two-way system, but homogeneous and indivisible, which, like any establishment, is by definition geared to maintaining the status quo. He doesn't really want to change anything. The vote in favour of Law 4009 from a large cross-party majority at that time was a glimpse of the political system, it was a light moment when the hopeful prospect of extroverty and worthy of all education was to be made clear, because by establishing the national sanitation centre, at last, and secondary education from its bonds, it would acquire its autonomy as a stage of education for the purpose of cultivating the student's critical thinking. The National Dismissal was fought because it marked the end of a disgusting educational system based on mechanical immobilization and papaya, a system that promoted the expropriation of pupils, the reassurance and the denomination of teachers, and the unfair enrichment of a huge disdaining circuit. Since this reform, therefore, was annoying the blurred waters and dismantling a variety of interests, the first opportunity began to build it up at the beginning through a gradual depopulation. And this project, unfortunately, was carried out by representatives of the majority itself who voted in favour of the reform. The SYRIZA government then simply abolished it on a solemn basis. The bill we are debating today does not actually reform anything. The government majority simply closes the eye in the conservative clientele, reassures her that she will take order in the universities with the permanent presence of the police, that she will apply disciplinary measures against replicators and that she will eradicate the eternities. In life, ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes demonstrated that strictness and discipline are necessary. No reform, however, cannot be exhausted in them. No debate on a national sanitation centre, no debate on the training councils, no reformist breath in the bill we are discussing. However, in order to avoid delusion, the repressive and disciplinary measures of the bill appear to support them, as the measurements show, a wide range of public opinion, because we are all responsible for this situation. We have tolerated our universities gradually creating an unbearable situation. Many invoke the fact that the incidents of violence have effectively disappeared and that the images of the dean of the Athens University of Economics within his own office are a sad exception. That's hypocrisy. The fact is that in our universities for years the threat of violence over the head of anyone dares to condemn the hooded phenomenon. Self-determination of teachers and students towards this situation cancels the highest quality of Article 16 of the Constitution, academic freedom, freedom of research and teaching, the general freedom of expression which must prevail within a democratic university. Our regimes almost unanimously condemn the bill because it imposes the constant presence of the police in the universities. But they ignore their own responsibilities, because for decades they have accepted to run universities under the state of fear. However, the entire university community has been silent for so many years, silence and inertia which, from the outset, encourages the government to impose today the continued presence of ELAS within universities, a situation that is unprecedented for a European Union country. However, at European level it is also the daily visible and invisible threat of violence against teachers and teachers. There is, therefore, a time-consuming responsibility for all of us. But historians decide on the responsibilities of the past. Today, there is a clear responsibility borne by the government of Mr.Mitsotakis, the government that has rushed as soon as it took office in the summer of 2019 to abolish university asylum, since the asylum itself was responsible for the university's suffering. So since they had things, why does the government come today after a year and a half and legislate this unprecedented European measure? Why does he not have the elementary political honesty to admit that he failed? Why didn't he get through the dean? Why have we reached the sad point that the EASA has been informed of the fact from posting the hoods? Why has the dean been silent until then? Apparently why he thought the police were unable to protect him. And what will the government do if the measure of the constant presence of the police in the institutions fails? Does he not understand that that's how he's resurrecting hoodiers at the universities? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And what's the next step? The military operation? Ladies and gentlemen, the full self-government established by the Constitution requires at least that responsibility for university security lies with their administrative bodies. The security of persons and things is the fundamental asset that each public administration must protect. Safety, i.e. it is at the core of the public administration's mission with the consequence that the respective responsibility is primarily for the authorities. In addition, this responsibility is assigned to the whole range. Since unlike Article 103 of the Constitution which merely establishes self-government for local affairs, the Constitution in Article 16 refers to full self-government of HEIs. That is why we cannot accept the view that the constitutional requirement of Article 16 can be confined to a mere veto in a mere veto. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr Kamine, and respect for the time. I would ask that the Step be prepared in order for the New Democracy MP, Mr Constantine Maraveya, to speak. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is another opportunity to discuss anything more than self-evident, because it is self-evident that one should finally enter the universities. This so obvious to the large social majority is also a proposal from the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. So, whoever today disagrees, goes against this need, and actually does not conflict with the New Democracy, but with the majority of the Greek citizens who want the HEIs to operate exclusively as spaces of knowledge and dissemination of ideas, as public institutions that will protect teachers and students without exception. They are the same citizens who pay taxes by funding state education and who want and are entitled to have universities safe for their children. It's over and out. Who of Opposition can explain to a parent the obsession of any left-wing party in an EIT type, the protection of permanent occupations of universities, and not only, the cultivation of climate of insecurity in school amphitheatres where tomorrow will he send his daughter or son to study? The above questions are, of course, rhetorical, but also the answers are obvious. That is why today's bill represents a great opportunity for the New Democracy because it enables us to compare our own political project, defending and implementing the self-evident with make news of the anti-population parties that run counter to society itself. And what didn't we hear? A political speech from the 1970s with complaints about the abolition of democracy within universities, a violation of individual rights, even of the arrest of student talks. As if we do not live in 2021 with a solid founded democracy, but in 1971 amid a bark dictatorship! But ultimately this is the extreme reason for SYRIZA and not only does it articulate in vain, but it is useful and necessary, because the unblemished chasm, the gap between a political party that dreams of reversal movements and frontal clashes on the streets on the one hand and the overwhelming social majority on the other that wants understanding, work and progress for their children. Ladies and gentlemen, we now owe all the Members of Parliament as parents and taxpayers to answer these simple questions: who wants tramps in the universities? What does the drug trafficking have to do with it? What does freedom of thought have to do with gang immunity? Does it help to build a better society, build teachers, Minister, inside their offices? What can free exchange of views have to do with uncontrolled barriers? Why are pre-complexism and facilitation tendencies? If no convincing responses are given from the Opposition, but we remain with the well-known antiquated views of the Left, then very simply in the next election, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, the New Democracy will take a walk. Minister, this bill contains regulations whose necessity cannot be denied, such as the minimum basis for introduction into each school, department or introductory direction. Because it is neither meritful nor reasonable for a candidate with a degree of "1" to "5" to enter PI when logic tells us that not only will he be able to graduate, but not even to study because he does not have the elementary background in order to be able to attend university courses. Speaking of common sense and logic, I would also like to focus on Article 12 and the creation of the ICM, which has become the subject of looting and vandalism. The need to monitor the sites and equipment paid by the Greek people is obvious. Unfortunately, however, we have not been able to reach agreement on this matter either. In fact, you, Minister, Mr. Phile, have come to claim that these centres will have access to emails, telephone calls from teachers and students. In other words, they will not be centres for receiving alarm signals, but they will be a centre for intercepting telecommunications. Unfortunately, however, this is not the first time that we have heard you reproducing this kind of make news. Because a few months ago you were the same one talking about so-called "Big Brother" in modern public schools telephony. This was another unrealistic claim aimed only at undermining the live teaching of students via the Internet. And yet this system has gone ahead and extended, just as the OHIM protection system will go ahead despite any fantasies of the Officerial Opposition. Finally, I take this opportunity today to discuss matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Education, and I return to two issues that I have raised through parliamentary scrutiny, Minister. It is, on the one hand, about the inclusion of the third and polytexts in the programme of supplying tablets for students and students and, on the other, about the new "School Lunch" programme, which will run in a few months' time in primary schools. I am sure that these requests will receive your immediate attention, because they are not just political commitments. These are the right options for the new political leadership of the Ministry to be carried out. The same is true of the state's obligation to support the children of three-tier and tenant families in every way. It is a minimum sample of support and will also be available to these students, so that they can effectively participate in the educational process. All these initiatives show, in addition to all others, the measure of the social sensitivity of the Government and of the entire New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Rallia Christidou, now has the floor. Immediately thereafter, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, after the first six speakers, the floor will be taken by the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Claus Gregoriadis. Mrs. Christidou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in this House a sad bill which seeks without any pretext to reduce students and graduates from public universities in the country to the benefit of college owners, permanent sponsors of the ruling party. Fourteen thousand students, almost a quarter of last year's admissions, will stay out of schools, the seventeen of the twenty-four HEIs of the country with fewer first-year, regional departments of universities are gradually being closed down. For four days in the committees and I and many Members of Parliament from almost all the parties in the opposition have raised the simple question again and again: by establishing a basis for introduction to schools, you are obviously suggesting that some and some are not capable and capable of studying. And yet, you accept that these incompetent ones, according to your idea, may, if they have the necessary purse, go to a college, without any basis for introduction, where they suddenly become capable, complete their studies with 8", "9", "10", because they will be cut off after tuition fees, they do not need "n+2" and so they deserve the same professional rights as the graduates of public universities, but they have been excluded, from which you exclude them. How, then, is this transformation made by incapable persons capable of? I have pointed out to you earlier that this is a scientific miracle, which foreign teachers should be invited to study it. Leaving the jokes as far as possible, how does the government and government MP explain this clear contradiction? By silence, by guilty silence! They pass over the fact, pretend to have heard nothing and continue unrealistic, the fat words about allegedly upgrading studies and supposedly of public education. A public education that is evidently hostile, the only value they recognize it is the value of the goods that will be sold and purchased. The same silence is being shown today in plenary and they will obviously be showing up tomorrow. They know this bill will work at the expense of the low social strata. But it is obvious that they are indifferent to social and educational inequalities, fully consistent with the interests they serve. It is not enough, however, for the government alone to do so. Within the pandemic, taking advantage of quarantine and having the people in restraint, it "saving" the university self-government defined by the Constitution and insisting on the creation of a university police force with special guards, despite objections from the prefectures, conventions, associations of Greek police officers, even though the vast majority of university teachers and students disagree, while it knows that anywhere in Europe there is no such and such responsibilities as university police, except in Turkey, something like that happens. It remains in authoritarianism and undemocratic catastrophe. At the same time, it also introduces the Control and Taking of Signals and Illustrations, with a view, ladies and gentlemen, not to combat any lawlessness, but to completely control the university space. This is not just a nostalgia of the days of the dictatorship with the mobs of the Great Brother, who was embarrassingly invoked by the Deputy Minister of Education as a supposed historical precedent, but a technologically upgraded installation of the “Greek Brother” at the universities of the country. Even the Personal Data Protection Authority is relinquishing you for the relevant articles of the draft law, but of course the findings from the independent authorities are only of interest to you when serving your plans. Otherwise, they end up in the cart of unusables, along with the Alvizat's finding about police and violence and arbitraryness and many other opinions. Since the Middle Ages universities have been fighting the efforts of the state power to control them. If you think your law will succeed, you'll soon realize how much you've fallen outside. Unless it is your deepest objective, namely to create tension and incidents in universities, because they disturb you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and you and the interests of the successes of public universities, you are disturbed by their recent rise in international ranking, you are disturbed by the level of their graduates and their important research work. And most importantly, your social role is annoying. Instead of solving their bureaucratic problems, instead of financing them, instead of upgrading them, instead of looking for ways of real support, we have police rulership, the medicine for any disease! Inside the dystopia we are living in, instead of replacing the retiring teachers, a provision of the existing legal framework that you deliberately leave it inactive, devouring from educational staff the highest institutions, you choose - on the right - to invent enemies. First, they are the students who are late to receive a degree. You call them degradingly 'eternal' and make sure that those who have exceeded their graduation years do not cost a single euro in the state. Not a single euro! However, they must be symbolized in order to celebrate the climate of discipline and intensification that you dream of. Your second and main enemy are your students as active, as thinking citizens. They're the ones you want to sterilize, they're the ones you want to wipe out of the campus, they're the ones your university police have on the spot with special guards. And for the offshore and drugs, the police have been able to intervene all these years, haven't they? Of course it could, it wasn't the law. There had to be the merchandise, the merchandise, to offer you the alibi. Now, you think it's time to go ahead with your plans. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Members, you are proud to tell us that you have been elected with this programme and this programme you intend to implement it. Of course, your programme did not say that you would blow up every trace of public education in the country from kindergarten to higher education. But we're answering you. The citizens are aware of what they have voted on every day. They see the prime carelessness and arrogantness of Parnitha and Ikaria, when you close the world at home from the six o'clock on weekends. They see the tragic management of the pandemic, the ESS without staff and the masks for giants in schools, the "Scoil Helico", the direct assignments, the padlocks in the market and the focus, the "noble" of a thousand special guards of the small, otherwise, flexible and unmistakable state. They see the rest of your recurring party army, which has reached record heights over your days. They see all that, as they see your full-front attack on democracy. They actually see your vision and schedule more and more clearly and see it as a nightmare. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. They understand that when you talk about safekeeping, with which we agree, you are planning the absolute policing, in which we vertically disagree. They understand that when you talk about a free market, you mean the dissolution of every public good and the conversion of universities into shops. They realize that when you refer to excellences, you are actually comforting your own children and you mean paid excellence. And in fact, because they understand, they look at the election diary and they look forward to it because they can't stand you anymore! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, starting my speech, especially today, I should like to express my unlimited personal admiration and admiration to the whole of my party, the Mera25, for all those people who have been in the last few weeks, who have been without any power in their hands, and almost without any power, have dared to make public and denounce the rape suffered by some who, and their power, have also believed in the run-up to yesterday that they have a lot. And I am talking about all kinds of rape, whether physical, mental, or verbal, or of course verbal, working, beginning with Mrs Bekattoru and reaching my fellow actors and singers, who also did not hesitate to dig their wounds, to pull them out and deliver them to the public and in front of our astonishing eyes, all of us astonished. All these people together, but also the hundreds that I am sure will follow - I speak on the basis of knowledge, they are going to follow hundreds, you know - will have to take some point of honour in the younger history of our country, as they have found the Lebanese to break the most abscess of all kinds of violence and in every human working space on another human being. All the things that have been revealed in recent days confirm in the most dramatic way the memorable phrase of the well-known actor Ilias Logothi: "Behold, ladies and gentlemen, the proof that we are still living in the prehistoric of humanity." To know, then, and to hear from this Step of our Parliament, these extremely brave fellow men - particularly women, who are also important - that with the mental power and endurance they have shown by revealing just the truth, they have taken us a whole step closer to the true history of humanity, to our future history, where, thanks to these people, it will have become a reality, it will not fit into any kind of violence by any manager of any authority. Let me not tell you that it will not even fit and there will also be no need at all for any power to work on this future society. For precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, the structures that produce and manage power and power are such that, by their nature, as the late Nicos Poullaz would say in 1968, whenever their steering wheel falls into the hands of a deeply immoral or deep psychopathic man, obscene and inhumane phenomena will continue to happen. Let me just say to you: If there was inspiring loyalty in our wider artistic space, no very bad or very disturbed person could blackmail asking for consideration from any new man, threatening him that, if he does not consent, he will stir him up his artistic evolution and course forever or that if he consents, he will launch it by magic at the top as a rocket. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is how we will manage as a state and society to get to the level that no producer, director, music composer or federation will manage so much and uncontrolled power that it can suspend or launch the career of any other person. People may be born damaged or may fall apart later in the course of their lives, they may experience serious mental illnesses or just slowly become scumbags as they oxidize in the south of people, other people, as the poet would say. This is something that no society can control and completely eliminate. What a society can do, however, is constantly putting institutional security controls on the exercise of any administration. And in order for a state to do so, its governors must be determined never to benefit and in any way from their sharing and prestige. We must slowly learn not to place the 'logues', but the most important, the most honest, the most appropriate and the most mentally balanced in all public positions of responsibility. Well, will you tell me now, what am I telling you from here? In this country, there has been a government for eighteen months, hidden behind excellences and accomplishments, the first thing it did was that it increased its "local" poster employees by at least eight hundred, just got the power. It began its governance by dissolving the CECH and with him the hope of rehabilitating thousands of our fellow citizens. Why? Just to fill with appointed "local" boards, which the "local" governors of the same country, to which I refer, and you have appointed them, of our public hospitals, except unrelated, all or most of them, have already proved to be so immoral that they circumvented the age range of CIVID -19, just to vaccinate earlier their friends, party leaders, as happened in Corfu, to say things by their name. State officials in this country that you are ruling, I continue to say, state officials in this country using their authority in the first days of symbolic vaccinations again, except for any priority, Secretary-General and other executives, and their families together, their ministries. The country's ministers, using their power, shared in their place and without being accounted for to anyone more than 30 million euros in total to "weithless" parasitic canalarchs, exchanged this money, most likely, with the total disappearance of all of us, of others, of the smaller political parties. And finally, we are talking about a country where its Prime Minister, using the power that stems from his office, writes in his old shoes the quarantine rules that he has established and crushed with thirty other people in Ikaria. I stop here because this list - believe me - has no end. And as long as this list continues to contain just one and only one such case, it will always be the day that people who are innocent, victims of such cases, will also denounce other freaky things. And don't deceive yourself, ladies and gentlemen, that only a few times in the athletic world and in our artistic world and space happen. It happens to everyone, but without exception the workplaces, from factories and crafts to multinationals and border cafeterias. The reason why we have learned all of this from champions and artists is because these victims most often have some kind of step and almost always display more braveness in their report and even personal deep wounds, as this practice, namely being exposed, is an important part of their work. In closing my report to these wonderful people who have found the courage with their complaints to put on fire and start burning on the night of our country, who has already lasted too much, I would like to ask you all to beg all of my heart's depths not to forget a moment, ladies and gentlemen, that all these people, raped and not, continue even today, after a whole year, to be hungry. If our aggregated state, which, with its own and all arbitrary, without any scientific evidence, has closed down political decisions in all areas of our work, work, does not assume its self-evident political responsibility to support them from here at least beyond brave finances, it will have played an extremely immoral role by directly contributing to the present, but also to future physical and mental rapes, as the hungry man, as everyone knows, becomes self-evidently more vulnerable to extortion and transactions with which authority he has at all times to him. Let's move on to the draft law. Mrs Sakorafa said so thoroughly and lazyly, which, I think, could not be said in this Chamber. However, I'm staying on a few things. I am a parliamentary representative and that is why I am talking about our general political topicality. About violence in universities. I'm starting with what's, I think, very important. Good, to discuss that your first concern was to abolish university asylum. You were screaming at that time - apologising for the expression - Mr Chrysochide was calling out that this is the problem, that this left-wing idealism does not take away university asylum so many years. You abolished it. And now, what's going on? After it worked out and you abolished it, why is there still violence in the universities? One should answer the continuation and sequence of this government. After the asylum was abolished! So, if it wasn't my son's fault, the sanctuary? I guess it wasn't the asylum. During our consultation of committees, three bodies from the Greek Police and none of the Greek students from the student community were invited. ELAS was right there with its three bodies, for whom I am passing away, to remind you that apart from the representative of the special guards - and that is what matters - the other two, that is, the real unionists of the real ELAS said that they were against the co-creating of police at universities. They said so very clearly. So I say to you that it is also oxymomile that there should be no student community in our consultation, but that there should be three associations of our police officers. The Undersecretary of Education himself, who is here among us, admitted that infractionality as a whole in Greek society is greater than in our universities. He also said that neither the government nor the head of the Ministry of Education would really like the police at universities, but what to do that is not the case. However, they also agree that the problems of bullying and teachers by the known - strangers concern two, do not more than three universities. You want to talk to me by name? I have no problem with that, but I won't. If really - as you say - you are forced and not as we say, years of obscene and secretly that you are planning, because of this terrible violence to do university police, tell me why don't you do it to these three universities? We have forty and educational institutions, where it has not opened a nose, it has not heard a curse. It's kind of like catechistically the other thirty-six. So why don't you just do the three where there are diversions? Do the only thing for the three! You don't just do it for three, you do it for everything, so you're exposed. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] I'll leave the bill. I told you, all the previous anti-Politicians have said so well. I will now come to some very important and topical things of the news. First, what happened, guys, on our Prime Minister's journey to Ikaria? What happened? And I say this, because we must remember that by travelling home, a political leader, a parliamentary group, Mr Varoufakis, a year ago, his parliamentary immunity was lifted, because he returned to his home today and yesterday and six months ago, where he returned every night. Hey, the world's broken! Three Ministers of your Government came out to say that the laws are for everyone, while Mr Varoufakis of course did not violate any law, as he has a constitutional right to go around the ground. But your Prime Minister broke all the quarantine rules he adopted yesterday. He was found in a house with at least 30 other people - I have photos, I will testify - there he confuseed with these people and then he didn't ask for any apology! Is the Prime Minister above the law? So what about the Prime Minister's journey to Ikaria? Has the fine of EUR 3,000 been cut on my dear colleague, Mr Stefanade, who was the organiser of illegality and EUR 300 a fine for those who participated, including our worthy Prime Minister? Second, censorship and guided news to the ERT? No way! I will now submit here what was posted out of news production at the ERT last night: 'SOS - SOS to colleagues and producers, we do not play a picture, nor a video by Mr.Mitsotakis from the terrace of the house Stefanade, Ikaria. We also only play footage of Dimitris Lignade alone, not with others. Thank you." I'm filing it because it's worth it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You're going to tell me: What kind of weird is this coming? After the Prime Minister did this, ERT had to do something. One journalist got out, did what he was supposed to do, his "guts" i.e. show in a press release the Prime Minister to stumble quarantine measures and immediately made sure they were welded. And I'm ending up with this. Was the National Archaeological Museum unreserved on Sunday night? This is the country of excellent service, the last country that Kyriakos Mitsotakis built and the ministers, you? Is the country that just stopped a PPC production station, at the same time dead everything and Mercury of the Praxitel is at the disposal of any on-going passer, to "root it" him? I'm sorry about the expression, but that's what's coming up. It turns out it didn't work - listen to it - either of the two generators that our National Museum had. That's what's coming up. If you believe that you are proud of your achievements, then continue to look at the violence in universities as just a problem. What universities? Those which, for a year on your own political responsibility, have been closed. Before you hit the violence, open them for the eyes of the world. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. Mr. Callianos has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr. Giokas comes from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law with a number of positive points, which goes on to the issues of education, which heals the wounds of the past and builds up a more creative educational and academic reality that cures experimentation, failures, acrobatisms, repatriations, conflicting choices in the education of the previous coexistence of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. For those who rush to question the above, I would remind you that many years since 2017 and 2018, for the works and days of the previous government to have been forgotten in education, when every little while the education community was upset, different models were announced for high school and access to higher education, when the ideas for double-Greek exams were dominated in the third grade, for 'green' and'red' schools, for graduations with local exams, but they would determine at national level the success or failure in the school or the part that each candidate wanted and candidate at that time, and many others, which were, in any event, never and fortunately, ever. For those who today make the late defenders of our youth, also the statements of 2018, for example political officials of SYRIZA, like then of Minister Gavroglou who said: "I want to hear the clear voice of the new generation." He said that "this voice is missing", commenting on the reactions of young people, of course, at that time in SYRIZA's statements about access to higher education. Our youth has a voice. She's strong, she's clean, and she's respected. I urge you to seek and read the Minutes carefully from the plenary sessions of all years, from 1996 until today in the Chamber of Adolescents. They are of great interest, they are directly applicable and many are also aprons. Within these texts of democratic and fertile dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, our youth, with a multitude of creative proposals, has spoken very loudly and very clearly about the evaluation of teachers, the updating of school books, the evaluation of pupils, access to higher education, the participation of the child's lawyer in school life and many others, which are good beyond also approving and legislating them. So this is today with this draft law and they deserve many congratulations to the political leaderships of the ministries involved in forming this bill, because it is a draft law that has been side by side - and not towards it - society. We should at least understand that. Indeed, it reminds us of the theater of irrationality to be invoked by colleagues from other parties in the opposition, particularly SYRIZA, because we are consistent in our election announcements. Along with the phrase "excellence is rets" you have told us, there is no need to add to the political vocabulary and the phrase "consequence is rets". Society sees, hears and obviously judges. I appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, that we all want our universities to be centres for academic knowledge and not trade centres for the coastal economy. I also think, ladies and gentlemen, that we all want our universities to be the hives for the creation of the members of the university community and not the hiding places of the offenders of the ordinary criminal law. For many years, and with regard to what has happened to university reality, society has been on its way to a dystopic landscape. He has experienced buildings in the doors of a reef office - we have heard these before - setting up benches with a thousand and two goods of vague origin in front of and within historical institutions of the country, violence, vandalism, beatings, extreme violations. By voting in favour of this draft law the next day will be clearer. Of course, the protection of university spaces will be a step in the right direction. What's happened so far, though? Where was the situation? I am reading you an excerpt from the 2018 text - and it is very important that you know it - POSDEP - POSDEP is the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Associations of Teachers and Research Personnel - our university teachers, which was about lawlessness in universities. And I won't read to you all of what I had prepared, it's quite a big text. I will read you two, three proposals, so that you know exactly what I shall be tabling in the Minutes. They say, therefore, attributes: "The spaces in which the youth of our country is studying and forming cannot be spaces where criminal groups are separating and marketing undisclosed drugs in daylight". They also say below in another paragraph: "The university cannot be a clear vine where groups will destroy public property and any collectivery will acquire arbitrary and undisturbed roofs". Below in another paragraph they also say: "The university is primarily an area of academic freedom, i.e. freedom to exercise the educational and research tasks of all its factors, and a place of freedom of expression, free movement of ideas, open to society and in direct cooperation with society, i.e. - "... a place where the rules and laws of the State must be the same and must be applied by all of us and for all". They also say: "Organizations or citizens that are arbitrary, violent and destroying and generally illegal in universities should be treated in accordance with the law, as in the rest of Greece". Who or who can disagree with this text of the representatives of our university teachers? I'm guessing. What government accountable to society, respecting the citizen, is it entitled to hide the head in the sand, ostracizing that everything is going well? We dare today and we resolve democratic and efficiently. I shall therefore give the Minutes the text from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Associations of Teachers and Research Personnel. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Callianos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I will also give in twenty seconds to the Minutes and that. I finished the Mathematical Department of the University of Patras and continued my postgraduate studies at the University of Patras in Applied Mathematics. I'm proud to have finished a public university with an excellent curriculum. I am not proud, however, that in several universities in the country these images of violence and lawlessness prevail. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Greek universities may be at the top of the world in terms of their curriculum programmes - I end, Mr President, in half a minute - but what is being faced by someone who enters a university, what is being done in the underground with molotovs, with the robbery, with the beatings, with the takeovers and all that is about which I am obviously not proud. The basis of the Mathematics Department in Samos in 2010 was ‘15.067’ in ‘20’, in 2015 ‘11.956’, in 2017 ‘12.020’, in 2018 ‘10.088, 2019 ‘7.501’ and in 2020 ‘3.125’. With "3.125" one enters Samos Mathematical right now and that should not apply, as you can see. That's why thresholds are set, which is something you don't want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Calliano, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u188	And I'll be done in a minute. I'm tabling this in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u189	Faster, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u190	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. I have to tell you that I spoke about Mathematics earlier because it has a long tradition beginning with Pythagoras, it continues with Eukleidis, until our days with the great Karatheorist and obviously it takes this school to be a decent school, that is, to have an average, to have a threshold with which one will enter the Mathematics, even Samos, which is a mathematical too good. I shall conclude, Mr President, and I shall say that I am therefore voting in favour of the draft law, with the certainty that it will only offer our country's education. And very quickly I will tell you, because there is a strong one - let me say this - of weather interest - beyond the bill now - that has to do with what is coming at the weekend, to inform people of the different regions of the country - that is very important what I will say - that from weekend to Sunday, and then comes a very strong invasion that will hit seventeen to eighteen degrees of mercury throughout the country by Sunday. We'll have snowfall initially in central and northern Greece and later in southern part. We'll have a temperature drop and a general intense sense of coldness. This will last until Wednesday, Thursday. So we're talking about almost a week cold. So let everyone in your area know, because Greece will experience the first strong wave of cold invasion for this year's winter. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u191	I let Mr. Calliano speak a little longer, as you can see, because the information on the weather was useful. He also told us about Karatheoris, known as Einstein's teacher, and I have to say that a memorial was held in Vienna a few days ago about Karatheories, so we can move on. Mr. Giokas has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece and immediately after Mrs. Kefaliannis from New Democracy. Now, charming, I'm saying it-- isn't it? - Mr. Gioka, can't you guys get any other science now and let us know?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u192	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u193	No, it's okay. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u194	Even if the Government of New Democracy finally passes this bill - one that will vote for it - one thing is certain that it is already doomed to the consciousness of the vast majority of young people, students who see them spend months with schools closed, but that does not prevent the government from taking measures relating to their studies and their future, even from erasing them, ignoring the conditions under which a student is currently studying. Like also, it is doomed to the consciousness of the students who see you changing the conditions for admission to higher institutions, just to ensure even greater clientele for private colleges, because this is ultimately what you are interested in. Therefore, whatever lies, any slanders, any disgusting gatherings, whatever provocachis you use, as the well-known incident of ASAE, the Kerameos - Chrysochoidis bill is a "living-dead", a "zombie" bill, as student mobilisations have described. Is this a question: The provisions of this bill, particularly those relating to repression - and is it not just the university police, are the disciplinary measures of students, which are not discussed - just an ideological reactive obsession of the New Democracy? In our view, not, without that implying that the New Democracy does not have in its lines of steadfastness. He's got the shoe with the shoe. But this bill is more than just a obsession or an idealism. It's a strategic, conscious political choice. It's the physics and logic of the university - business, the university - a public limited company, which you have all set up a step-by-step in recent years. Such a university does not raise either the real academic freedom or the existence of a student movement nor even the existence of elementary collective procedures and claims. This university only raises one thing and only protects one thing, the business activities of universities and their even closer links to market needs, to the extent that these universities become essential and typical annexes of the same companies many times. This assumption does not question any party other than the JV. That is why all parties, even those who vote against the government bill, either openly propose or even close the eye in the presence with one or the other form of a body with repressive powers inside the institutions. And the controversy is whether this will come under the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Police or whether it will be subject to the Rector authorities. That is the controversy about the substance. We call it one more time. We categorically reject the presence of any form of repressive mechanisms - we are not talking about guards - within the institutions, without entering the debate whether they will fall here or fall there, whether these mechanisms or private ones will be public, whether they are obvious or hidden. Because there is also the proposal of a former SYRIZA Minister for the body of secret police officers within the institutions. One proposal - I am referring to Mr Marda - which, formally by SYRIZA, has not yet been rejected and not accidentally. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Officially, your youth, Mr. Friend. Officially, it has not been disapproved, because you too close the eye in an audience that has the rule of law and order. There is this question, which all governments have worked for years: why is it wrong for a university to operate or make scientists or adjust its research based on the need for businesses? In our opinion, there is no better response and more convincing in this respect than the latest developments with pandemic and vaccines. What do we have there? State research institutes and public institutions in other universities, such as that of Oxford. Meanwhile, since the morning, we've been hearing from everyone about Oxford. Oxford from New Democracy, Oxford from SYRIZA. That's it, Oxford. Here there is cross-party consensus and worship for Oxford. Who's Oxford? The University of ASTRAZENCA. This is Oxford. Universities that coexist with large pharmaceuticals and the product of research, the product of collective work of top scientists - we question this - it becomes the property of the company that can sell it, buy it, even exploit it, even blackmail, even if it is done at the expense of the health and life of the whole humanity. That's it. This is the tragic, cynical and inhuman result of market universities. That is why we do not share all this agitation and the exorcism you are all doing about so-called foreign European universities and so on, which I have heard since this morning. Mercy with this story, with this exorcism and this sanctuary. The New Democracy with the fairy tale that supposedly foreign universities have no lawlessness and hides the investigations that exist - for example for the United States that show an increase in crime within universities, because unfortunately the universities are not outside society and even a society that is deeply rotten and decayed - and also SYRIZA with the fairy tale that European universities are the beacons of democracy and academic freedoms. I beg your pardon, those who say this whether they are consciously laughing or completely irrelevant to what is going on in European universities because there are no academic freedoms where the business is typically and essentially the case, nor are there academic or trade union freedoms, such as in many countries where even the concept of asylum is only a memory. Isn't that happening? Aren't there? Do you not know how student mobilisations have been addressed in a number of countries in recent years, even by evacuation? Even with the violent evacuation of university institutions under the direction of the Rectorian authorities!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Gioka, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u196	We, Minister, do not accuse you of moving away from European reality. We blame you for the very opposite. We accuse you of trying to dismantle democratic conquests that the student and popular movement in our country have protected them so far. You are trying to dismantle them and build a university, even more subordinated and assessed by the needs of the market jungle and the directions of the European Union. We are opposed to the education and the Fast Foundations that Mr Philis said, but we are also opposed to the universities of the patent, the ASTRAZENCA, the MODERNA, the 'PHIZER', the large companies, the universities of the nice window and the deep social decline. We are fighting for a university of real scientific education in the interests of the people's needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would ask colleagues not to take advantage of my kindness. Mrs Kefaliannis from New Democracy has the floor, followed by Mr Vernardakis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a bill of particular importance for Greek education, education as a whole, academic freedom and democracy is being introduced today. Questions catalysts about social progress and prosperity, especially today, which, in the midst of an unprecedented test for all mankind, change rapidly. In the years ahead, sustainable development and social justice become the major demands. The transition to the new era can only have as a vehicle and education. So the need to adapt our educational system to the new challenges we face is immediate and imperative. This bill is part of the wider strategy of a modern development policy, which requires radical reforms to create an innovative, more rational and autonomous educational system. A system which is interconnected with the real needs of society and the economy. The minimum basis for admission to higher education is laid down here. Each university department will form this basis separately, in a flexible and rational manner. Higher education institutions are able for the first time to contribute autonomously to the formation of their academic knowledge. In this way, the prestige of Greek universities and the quality of academic education in them is strengthened. In addition, a new way of completing the computerised lists is introduced, which aims to reduce the number of successful students in a random selection school, as well as to reduce the need for rewrites. And here we have to be honest. It is a serious blow to public education that today students are admitted, with a degree below the "20", while almost 30% is never graduated. That's why, finally! - the introduction of a maximum period of study is a self-evident reform if we are really trying to modernise and upgrade public education. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the time to give realistic incentives to open up new routes with regard to post-training. A healthy, modern educational system must promote, with design and strategy, a public education which is on the way along with society's needs. And this course cannot be a one-way introduction to higher education. It has to talk to the social actors and partners, adapt the education and learning tanks, based on developments in all sectors of the economy, trade, construction and technology. The path of vocational education and training must therefore become a path of conscious choice, with incentives both in relation to the quality of knowledge and skills and the targeted vocational rehabilitation. The introduction of the possibility of submitting two computerized candidates, one for the introduction through pan-Hellenics into universities and one for the introduction to public IEK by means of a dismissal, is a truly crucial reform section. Because the country must put out obsolete educational stereotypes behind. High school should cease to be a preparation centre for the pan-Hellenic exams. Post-training must give more choice, such as vocational and technical training. It goes without saying that the Greek universities must remain a very serious and conscious choice of candidates, as must also be an institution of freedom, of speech and of ideas, an institution of constant and unobstructed search for truth and good thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing up with the crucial issue of security and I invite you to look at the truth in the face, to say it without hesitation, to agree on the obvious. I am speaking to you as a proud graduate of the Law School of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens. I studied at a Greek public university, because I believe in its value and role. But is there a problem in the Greek universities today? There's a big one, too. There is a problem of violence, infraction and lawlessness for years now. And for this problem, there is room for self-criticism from all of us and especially from the Qualified Opposition for the tolerance shown by all these phenomena that undermine public education. Today, however, something needs to be done. The dean's scenes that spread must not be repeated. Universities of violence and fascist practices are inappropriate. We must finally protect democracy in universities and finally protect public education, because that is the great risk. Violence, decline and abandonment are the end of public education, and that is what we all have to agree on. So if we agree in this phrase, we will also find the way to protect ourselves. Of course we need dialogue and broader compositions to find the golden incision, the solution. I'm sure the university community, beards, teachers, students, and, where necessary, improvements will have to be made. After all, it is never too late for substantial changes in the direction of realism. Dialogue with the educational community must continue and moderation must prevail. So we must isolate the extremist voices and those who want the deadlock, find a solution sustainable for safety at universities, beyond and outside all reasonable ideas, because there is no time to lose, if we want to stand up to the major challenges of rapid economic and social change in terms of democracy and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mrs Kefaliannis, and thank you for keeping time. The reason is now Mr. Vernardakis of the Radical Left Coalition and will be followed by Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. I have asked the committee three questions and I have been waiting for an answer. Let's get them back together a little bit from the beginning. Do you have an opinion from the Privacy Authority? Let's see a brief story. The bill is submitted Friday night, if you remember, on 29 January, without explanatory statement. On 2 February, on the day we have the first meeting of the committee, the explanatory statement is also presented, where at the end of the day a letter from the President of the Independent Privacy Authority, Mr Menudakos, was sent from 21 January. In other words, for ten to twelve days the document is hidden. I am opposed to the fact that in his letter the President of the authority criticizes you for the provisions of the bill you are alleged to have sent to him. If you read Mr Menudaku's letter, it seems that it is another thing that you sent him as a plan and another one that you tabled to the House. But let's take the obvious. On the basis of Articles 57 and 13 of Law 4624/2019, I shall read to you in words: ‘The Data Protection Authority shall give an opinion on any arrangements to be included in a law or in a regulatory act concerning the processing of personal data’. The principle was not consulted in time, nor was it in full. So there is a typical issue. We have a letter from the President, which is obviously also for the sake of courtesy of protecting the government and the executive from various loopholes contained in the law. What document was given to the President of the Authority? Why has the opinion of the authority not been formally consulted? Is it true that another plan was sent and another plan was filed in the House? And why am I telling you this? I am telling you this because in the letter sent to you by the President-in-Office of the Council, he is likely to welcome the intention, if any, to have a data record, to have the appointment of a responsible body. He's not talking to the police, he's not talking to the public. And it is not correct to refer to a jointly responsible person, because Article 14 of the 2011 Law stipulates, as the European General Data Protection Regulation requires, for very specific purposes only, that it is responsible for processing data, which is to safeguard the national defence, protect the culture and prevent crimes of treason and so on. So something else you have sent to the President of the Authority, but it is what you have submitted, you do not have an official opinion, and you will certainly be invited to submit the documents. It is your hobby, of course, not to deposit the official documents you are due to. You did so with 'CISCO', you did so with the minutes of the Committee on School Literature, you did so in the minutes when you abolished the Education Policy Institute's recommendations with regard to history programs. You will not avoid this bitter glass, i.e. submit all the correspondence and questions you have put to the Data Protection Authority. Let's go down. Secondly, is lawlessness a general phenomenon or are you legislating on the basis of your ideas? First of all, one wonders about the fact that some representatives of the New Democracy are paralysing, fortunately, not everyone - from this step and that the Greek universities appear as a man of lawlessness, violence, drug trafficking. Finally! There are thousands of students listening to you, the academics listening to you, the researchers hear you! However, in any case, to take a little closer to this issue and see how you legislate, where this violence and lawlessness are. I had tabled a question with other SYRIZA MPs to the Ministry of Civil Protection in November. How many incidents have been reported after September 2019, i.e. having abolished university asylum? How many times did the police have to intervene? How many times did the police intervene and the commissioner, when and when requested? Therefore, the Ministry of Civil Protection responds to me on 27 November 2020. It is very interesting and I would really like the New Democracy's dear rapporteur to take this into account. So what do the Ministry of Citizen Protection and the State Secretary responsible, Mr. Leuteris Economou, say? It says that we have one case of self-government in ASEAN, in the known case, we have one case at the National Technical University, also of its own motion, namely two cases. We've got two incidents carried out at the University of Ioannina, and - look out! - we have two hundred and six incidents at the Aristotle University, but not there, but in the university's surroundings, and it is of great importance that the way it formulates it here, while in university institutions of other general regional police offices there are no complaints. In other words, you have legislated for four incidents for both Aristotle spaces.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u201	At least twenty-five!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u202	I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the surrounding spaces! So, you know what you're telling us? You're telling us that because there's a crime, because there's a violation of the outdoors, you're paying it to the universities. It's like you're telling us that when a thief comes to our house, the way to deal with him is to get the police inside our house, watch our communications, phones, e-mails, etc., because this is the best way to avoid this infraction and crime. That is what you say on the substance of this law. Third question: Reduction of admissionees. In the case of other issues, you certainly do not have feasibility studies. There are many flaming things - they always sound here at times - that they have no right to study, because they all go to law school, because they all go to the Polytechnics, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One MEP asked the following question before: At the School of Civil Engineering, he says, there are too many who have not received a degree. What do you think? They're useless, obviously. These people went in white glue to the Polytechnic and the political engineers. The only rational answer that was heard in this House was heard by a man, who is certainly not a member of the New Democracy, is the head of the University Assessment Authority, Mr. Mitkas, who gave a rational answer. He said we have an educational system that regulates the reception, but it doesn't regulate the exit. That's right, first of all. But who is responsible for this? Is the market responsible for this? Is the private sector mechanisms responsible? What private sector is currently financing research? Why are we waiting, then, for the Polytechnic graduates to end in four years or five and quickly? What for? To do what? To find themselves in what working and professional environment? You know from evaluations that only 8% of research investments come from the private sector. And the question is very simple: Who evaluates this market now? Who's appraising her? We're reviewing universities, students, families, everything. But who evaluates the market? Nobody. He's got an absolute acceptance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Bernardakis, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u204	I shall conclude, Mr President. One last sentence to say. Every government that attempted to call into question this democratic right of Greek society for a democratic educational system, that is, an educational system that everyone can study, despite class inequalities and despite other inequalities, crashed. This is the essence of the country's history. Unfortunately, once again it seems that you also have historical illiteracy on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, too. The next speaker is the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas. Here comes Mrs. Apajidis from Mera25. Please make an effort to keep the seven minute because we are slowly going to the logic of the United States Senate, you know, of the improper speech that one can speak forty-eight hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u206	Until '67 and the Greek Parliament, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u207	It's not good. I remember, however, in the Senate, the other one was eating and talking. He did things. Here, Mr Heta, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, thank you very much. Although we have said enough at the beginning of the meeting, I would like to begin, Minister, our position today with a statement by our President, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, because today is the International Day of Greek Language. But nobody said anything. We are discussing such a bill today and I shall pass on that statement. In time, then, Minister, the click away, the lockdown, the click in shop, the click here and the click there and all these imported English terms are more than ever up to date the message of the great Odysseus Elytis: "The language gave me Greek, the house poor in the beaches of Homer. My only concern is in the sandy beaches of Homer." That is why we will also bring back, Minister, the teaching of ancient Greeks at all levels of education, so that the Greeks become societies of the greatness of the mother of languages: our Greeks. I said at the beginning of the position that a lot of pretexts have been heard here and many of them - I will say - struggling fights on the issue of education. Why, I repeat, you are more concerned about keeping your party audience together than about finding a solution to this huge issue of infrastability identified in the Greek universities. I'm addressing the left people in the first phase to finish the story. Because I hear early this morning that the New Democracy reminds us of a Greek solution. I don't know if it reminds me. I wish it would remind you, because the Greek Solution reminds us of the logic and we make suggestions reasonable. However, to finish with one good - because the figures, Mr Skourletis, are insignificant - that a hundred and forty-eight bills, Mrs Kerameus, have been passed since the start of the country's governance by New Democracy. Listen to you, not you, SYRIZA more, who says things about the Greek Solution. You have said seventy-three "yes", Mr Skourletis, in the bills of the New Democracy. That's why we say you're the same. We've been doing business here for hours. There are all the elements one by one, the 'yes', the 'no', the 'no' of each party. You have said seventy-three 'yes' and fifty-two 'no'. The Greek Solution has said fifty two "yes" and seventy two "no". So let's see who's tail is and who's running together and who you are, and who you are, and who you are not, Mr. Skourletis, who you were formerly popular and told us about the Greek Solution. The numbers are relentless. Unless you did not vote on these bills, some others voted on them. That's it to finish the story. Specula! Every time you make the same specs, cardboard, research, here's the results. Well, for the Change Movement, I'm not talking about it. He has said more than a hundred 'yes'. Everyone makes their choices in here. It's all right, everyone makes their own choices. The truth, however, is this: Seventy-two "yes" have been said by you, fifty-two, to finish. And now, Mrs. Kerameau, we're sorry, haven't we voted for the asylum here a few months ago? We weren't voting for it? So, in Greece we have passed how many laws? We're lost. Is the asylum being applied now? So what? Phone, in here we have kids cases, they sell drugs, we have parties, we have guns, we have bats, the police will come. Where is he? Why don't you do this and come to the point of putting the police in the universities? We'll tell you our proposals later, because we're against that, gentlemen on the left, to get the police into universities like that. There's a solution and there's a proposal you don't listen to, though. Why? Because the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is very simply stereophobic and we have said it too - too many times. We must finally finish with the criminals, the drug dealers, the anarchists who rape the concept of university asylum. Because that's the cause of the evil we're talking about today, and we need to see why these phenomena exist. Well, they're in a hurry. And they're raped in practice too. Yesterday we were talking to a girl's mother who was raped at the university. What can we tell this mother now? Our children. There's nothing else. The safety of our children. Nothing else. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal on the establishment of a special body, Madam Minister, university protection, and we invite you to put the half-measures aside. We are now going to five, six specific proposals. Complete abolition of so-called university asylum. What do we mean? We want asylum of ideas. I'm on it again. We want asylum of ideas, not illegal asylum, not illegal asylum. Yes to the asylum of ideas, not to the asylum of illegal and illegal. I must, as I told you, set up a special body for the protection of universities with well-trained staff, which will be his job. It will be possible to intervene without special permission when it finds that criminal offences are committed. It will fully guarantee the safety of our students, our children and academic staff. Ask me. In which universities - not all of course, but in the larger ones - many are afraid to go to work. And that's a truth. So this body will self-advisedly ask for the assistance of the Greek Police in case the law is not enforced. Let me tell you something else in practice now, Minister. The thousand people you're going to hire now are very few. That's not enough. Make the division with all the universities we have. That's not enough. And in any case, you fired them. Mr. Mitsotakis being Minister a few years ago he fired them. He fired them and now go get them back. Put a security tour with this special student card, to make it from specific entrances and it will only concern those who have the right to be in the area. Incidentally, not as much as it can be heard now - because there are transgressive elements involved in such cases on a continuous basis - we should at some point say 'no' to the known - strangers and gradually start gradually, escalating for specific cases to become a felony of all this work that they do in there. Let's go down. Damage is done. Who pays them? They're destroying, they're breaking jams, they're breaking strollings, they're burning rooms, material history, libraries. Who's gonna pay for this? The Greek people again? Oh, no! So put that particular gentleman who will do the damages, his family will pay for the damage! To pay for the damage, to hurt! And finally, Minister, that is where you must start: the decoupling of the Republican elections by the students. It can't be students' ballast and it depends on their choice with the students. It's a peculiar lisverish that gives birth to other evils! No relationship like abroad! Can the student now vote the dean? But they're back together. How will it be imposed after the dean when he asks for a vote from the students? Isn't that understood? What did we say before and the dear Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party exploded? We did not say 'policy' from the universities. But outside, the parties in the same way as they are now, with all kinds of cozy people having made political careers and cultivating lawlessness and partyism at universities! That's what we're saying. Why are we talking about this? Unfortunately, it is a pity - and I have said it before, I will mention it now, Minister - that our universities are in these positions pan-European, because we have the best teachers and we really have appetite and mood. The teacher must also be a teacher. These things we need to see slowly. So why should Greece be in Europe, Mrs.Kerameos, in the seventeenth place, the National Kapodistrian University of Athens, in the eighteenth place in Europe and in the seventeenth place in the world, in the thirteenth place in the thirteenth place, in the thirteenth place, in the thirteenth place, in the thirteenth place in the thirteenth place in the world, in the Pireaus, in the fifty-eighteenth place, in the thirteenth place, in the fifty-eighteenth place in the eighteenth place? Why would our universities be there? Why give the right, and until when will we give the right to write about us that in the Greek universities the drug problem is chronicling, that drug addicts are hitting a dose in common, so-called anarchists? Yes, Mr. Vernadakis, unfortunately, they write this and we have to get these things out of the inside. How are they going to go? Don't we have the whole political system a responsibility for that? Shouldn't we find a solution for our children to be safely taken to universities? Can DIE WELT now write that Greek universities offer a safe haven for gangs of drugs? But it's too bad! You will allow me, since we have made a great deal of reference to the bill, Minister, today and to the debate on constitutionality, and not only, to go to two, three other things. It is now clear that the sand in your cage ends, not you personally, but the government. When you turn the claw backwards, the sand starts slowly, slowly and your time is running out. You see what happens and you see the reactions of the world. The grace period is over! You've done a salad. The world's reacting now. It reacts because you have repeatedly dissolved acquired freedoms and are implementing a project that leads the country to destruction. Well, it's clear. The clay sand ends. And "Moses" - so it prevailed - that Mr Mitsotakis is "Moses", that is discussed, in any political sense, that I fear - in a political sense again - that he will become "Judas", because he starts and betrays the Greeks who trusted him with his choices! So you will rule or let us do it. Why can't you keep us locked up in our homes, in such a state of poverty the Greeks with closed shops, with psychopharmaceuticals, and you know that very well. One Parnitha, one Sfakia, one Ikaria! Hey, it can't be! Everything has a limit! And we were on tour last Friday in Evros - which will return this issue to a little bit for the crime, the national crime you are currently committing as government in Evros - but we went two nomadic, the President went, two meetings with the institutions and left. No bank and nothing! This is no time for banking, Minister. It's time for seriousness and not time for banking! The legislator can't break the law. So it cannot be Mr Mitsotakis who legislates and is the one who violates the law! You're rushing Greek's logic! It can't be done! It can't really be. Every day that passes, unfortunately, we are entitled. And now we're going to the other thing. You mustn't, stop it. First of all, the arrogance and arrogance of Mr. Moutarakis say "what I like to do and put ten thousand in here" to the village's colonel Fylakio is unacceptable. We mustn't make the new FYROM! You're obsessed with expanding the CYPD to Evros. Have you been to the prisonhouse? Do you know where he is? Front guard, border line with Greece! And you put three thousand Muslims there? You are also violating the Treaty of Lausanne on the exchange of populations. How will you bring three to three and a half thousand to a village of three hundred? How are you gonna do that? We have tabled - we say it from the first moment, at first, you reacted, but then slowly -... proposal, study costly, we have formally submitted it to Parliament many times, for transferring all of them to uninhabited islands, with structured structures, health care, feeding and saying. We can't get this scorpion to the right and left. You can't carry in the evenings with trucks, Minister, container to go and stay there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am not going to close, Mr President - I will not do - with this 'Waterloux' government at the focus. In other words, what Mr Stefanade said to us the other day to justify the unjustified tests, that all the measures were taken and a snack was, brother, we didn't do any tricks, so apply these to the catering and tell the stores every twenty-five square meters that you'll sit four people, eat your shotgun, work a little bit. That's where it counts, isn't it? So, in Ikaria, who ate thirty people was okay, but the poor man who has his shop can't open it under these circumstances? You're doing an operation very thin with a balm! We've said it many times. You've demolished the world. And I'm closing up with this. I told Mr Gerapetititi on the committee a moment ago, we said it here a hundred times, the President said so, we all say so. Stop this scandal, the traffic charge raisin. Can't people pay traffic charges all year long, when you have it for four five months in solitary confinement and it's not released. It can't be done! You can't share money right and left and you can't reduce traffic charges for the world. It's a fair request, Minister. I told Mr. Gerapetti, we said it everywhere, all the tons. Do the thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mrs Papagasa has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece and Mrs Apatzidis will be followed by Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u210	The bill brought by the Government of New Democracy on higher education institutions has been included by two emblematics - with or without introductory terms - declarations or positions - keys: Firstly, for the university police, in order to strike the lawlessness and crime within the universities. That is exactly how I heard it from the mouth of the Minister. When university police goes to justify, new arguments are added, as if crime exists in universities and not outside them. Secondly, the upgrading of universities, that now, with the government's measures, the degree to be acquired by the student, the student will immediately open the doors to him to find a job, he will have an impact - says - the degree - and in the past years there was no contradiction, there was mismatch - and the problem of unemployment is solved, all well-burned. Once you're done with the university, the business gates are open. First of all, if you look at this, I cannot say that you are the innovative government or the innovative Ministry of Education. As far as we are concerned, the deterioration and wider classification of higher education institutions is, in our view, not taking place in your day. It has predecessors of this policy, with stations the Diamantopoulou Law on PASOK, then Mr Arvanitopoulos comes to New Democracy and then Mr Gavroglou's law on SYRIZA government, because I do not want only one minister to be targeted under any circumstances. May I ask you the question: If there were no so-called higher education - so-called higher education, would it be possible today for this bill to come, where diplomas (a, (b), (c) class, categorisation of schools and universities? Of course, there was such evidence in the law during SYRIZA. Therefore, it is really a matter of successive reactionary, class reforms, which have been subjected exclusively - especially in recent years - to what we call a new productive model, a new production model in Greece, extroverts, investment in four - five sectors, mainly, in Greece's geostrategic upgrading and step by step - that is, it will unfortunately also be necessary in the next few months. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] Let's catch up to the university police thing. For us it is 100% pure and that is why we reject and any other form has been proposed by opposition parties. The aim of the University Police is to monitor, file, riskology, blackmail, and at the end and suppression. It's a package with a lot of subpacks. Previously - I am talking about the period prior to the dictatorship - there was the student's security student who organized the surveillance, through the correspondence of university schools or multiple correspondence, and also through teachers - unfortunately - universities and their various assistants. The kick, the wood, we were eating it out of the universities. Now it's a whole package. It will work as a student of security, with a mission of repression within the universities themselves, about illegality, illegality, etc. Look, we know that there are conscious provokers or possibly unconscious ones who are creating certain phenomena, which have been convicted - and from us have been convicted - at universities. You probably applaud these things from within, because they give you the alibi to set up such a mechanism of repression and terrorism within the universities themselves, at a time when other measures are coming and at a time when it has already been clear that there are major regeneration steps of the student movement, which has been in a long-term crisis and with some degenerative phenomena. By the way, if you want to look into the degenerative phenomena within the university, you start - it doesn't mean that they were better before, but there are some stations - since the 1980s. Removal, corruption and deprivation have the main instrument in the 1980s, the 1990s and the aftermath of Community funds for research funding, which do not go to the Ministry of Education, to any Ministry of Education. I'm talking about a logic that has to govern these things. They do not fall within a general framework of research, but do they go to the universities? To a teacher who sets up his team and dives - I won't all say. A scientific research project has been carried out, but as a general rule the financing of EEC funds initially and after the European Union, directly to persons, groups who took their assistants, their acquaintances - who do not - or who do good students - was the largest partitioning pipeline in the universities. There was the RDP and the PSP. They spent all these years, the 1980s, the '90s and the present. Now, today, the first reason, for a number of reasons, is that the SGP has him. Look to see the cultivation of the soil, to justify the various provocators their work. There are real degenerative phenomena within the university. The other opposition parties accuse the New Democracy of partisanism and something like that. Of course, when I say I do or say PSF, I refer to specific parties. But take note of what was the broader objective, the strategic of the policy of the ruling class in Greece, the system of the European Union? It is what has gradually passed through all the previous bills and today's one. Look, before I make the criticism of what you are doing, what are the positions of the Communist Party of Greece and on what criteria we have voted against all the bills so far and we are sure as a party, as a parliamentary group, that we will unfortunately do at least in the next few years. We start with the following thing: First, it's free 100%. SYRIZA started some postgraduate payments, opened the appetite. Not that the New Democracy is against them. He'll multiply them. However, the appetite is opened by individual spaces and issues. The basic thing, for us, is that when we say higher education institutions, we mean that the educational institutions have a purely scientific subject and a single-class degree based on scientific object and not a degree in science, but a degree in a, b, c, class, as was now the case with the superiorization of TEIs and various other things that we have analysed - I do not have time to say more - and categorisation of universities, classifying deeper, based on evaluation and funding. We support joint study programmes at the university with a scientific object that responds to the progress of science and social folk needs. I'll give you an example of an older period, that is, the 2000s... about. I had made many tours and one and two and three times in most universities in our country. I will give you the following example: a university has done research on the basis of Community funding for a fly flying in Africa to sell the 'fly of Africa' research. Secondly, TEI here in Attica was investigating on request a Dutch monopoly company - it is what we call the agricultural industry - for the competitiveness of the Dutch tomato against the Greek and elsewhere. Thirdly, at a university again, but at a university which also existed when I was a student - an old university - there were new departments. When they brought me the new list of new departments, I did not understand what scientific object they have or have in general what they have. I thought I'd stayed behind, that I don't know the new developments. But then some of the dean authorities and other teachers who were there were swinging their heads. Whoever became a university professor and had done a special research and study, there were works. Regardless of the needs, capabilities and needs of the people in the country to live better. These today are multiplying. NATO has also entered and created research programs in cooperation with universities and especially in northern Greece. We support this. And university police, in fact, as a law, must stay on paper. But here's a matter. How's he gonna stay on the paper? As a law, a choice that is dealt with exclusively? The person who can put this university law on paper is a Roman student movement that puts it on paper and fully claims the right to fight in and out of universities - because the issue of universities is not just a narrow university - and puts the whole situation and the whole issue of higher education to its focus, not to say of course of the whole range of education. A movement that sets as a goal the scientific object of the diplomas, the subject of research and much wider issues. Because all right, there is the experience of the 1960s - I am exempted from the period of dictatorship - where then, in fact, from object when it was forbidden to meet in the university - I speak until '64-65 and then again there were problems - and when it was forbidden to become a general meeting of students, of course, the first issue was the problem of democracy. Nevertheless, the struggle with an individual theme vital to democracy, such as trade unions, students, civil liberties, cannot bring any effect unless it is linked to the strategic purpose of this law. And it does not only serve the police rule, but it serves to transform a university - I am speaking in general - into a subsidiary of the monopoly companies, and indeed, in those areas that are going to be invested today. In this sense, both the law in SYRIZA and today's law have something new in relation to previous reforms, reactionary to us, which have been done. He's got the design element forward. Educational reforms usually corrected the bad texts that created the system itself and the sovereign policy and tried to confront contradictions that created the system itself. These laws, unfortunately, look forward. That is why a student movement - which allys and cooperates with what is radically outside universities, labour, trade unions, other workers - can deal with paperwork and policing and the violence that will increase in universities, but most importantly, the conversion of universities into business subsidiaries. The university was always tied up with business goals. However, it was done more in an external way and mainly through the ideology that went through the universities. Now it becomes even more violent, even more open, even more obscene. Private capitalist enterprises will be the ones operating the work of scientists and students, etc. But I'm ending here. Look at that. Never any reactionary law that passed was not completed in its application. Why? Because the university, like education in general, is not just the law. They're university students. Unfortunately, a small part resists and the composition of universities is such that the resistance is very difficult and tortureful. But there is what we call mass, student, student. There are the families, the parents, who have trouble and sacrifices trying to send their children to the university. And from this point of view, we are absolutely certain that it is a dynamic, mass space. It is not 'decide and order'. And certainly not many elements of the law will become a reality. We encourage what regenerative element exists in the student movement. Because in conditions of lockdown, with closed universities deliberately - there is pandemic, but also deliberately - it goes on to complete the passage of measures, for a university that will produce a university elite and all the other graduates a, b, c class will be for flexible working relationships, and will do an executive job. It's like the oldest division we've had between spiritual and manual work. Today, doctoral scientists do executive work without protocols and does not allow them to say an opinion, say a thought, to exploit their experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much. Ms. Apatzides from Mera25 has the floor now. My colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by addressing the topical and urgent subjects of major importance. It is inhumanity that a fine is being cut to an eighty-year-old woman selling grass, who had lost to a tractor of two children and a grandchildren, while at the same time we have the Prime Minister of the country reaching Ikaria and there are photographs and videos from Coronogledi at Mr Stefanade's house and with Maximo's orders not to play any photograph of ERT from Ikaria, as well as photographs from Mr. Lignade, in order not to connect with government officials. So what's going on? Do you operate two meters and two stations? With regard to the bill, few will disagree with me in this Chamber that this bill attempts to reform higher education by introducing authoritarian and anti-democratic provisions. Therefore, we need to consider a little the facts that have led to this point. I'm going back a little bit, in August 2019, when the Prime Minister here at the Throttle Step informed us that lawlessness is over at universities. Of course, then he said that those who claimed the police would go into the universities were at risk. It is not surprising, therefore, that one-and-a-half year after the Ministry of Education brings a bill that has not existed in western and democratic countries. He brings a law on education in the presence of the Minister of Civil Protection. The university police reminds us of other times and other states. Mrs. Kerame, your bill would really be jealous of the government of the "Sultan" of the neighbouring country. It is disgraceful, however, for a democratic country unless we are no longer. Indeed, the government has taken a slippery path towards authoritarianism, not only in terms of universities, but also in general in education and society. I would add at this point that this unacceptable bill does not mean that the Members of the New Democracy, such as Mr Fortsakis, a former dean of the University of Athens and a former member of the State of New Democracy, do not want it. Would anyone be wondering, why is that? So, who wants the university police? It will be a police that will be directly accountable to the Ministry of the beloved Mr. Chrysochide and will be more reminded of the hunger student of the Security despite the university care services of a democratic and progressive society. There are, of course, some ignorant students who agree with the content of the bill, but they are still part of the New Democracy SGP. The so-called University of Oxford was heard in the debate. And Oxford was forced to answer, through the tutors' association, that what you claim doesn't happen here. The students don't want it. He doesn't want a portion of the New Democracy. So who wants it? The American embassy wants it. An older document by Wikileaks shows that the then American ambassador called for the abolition of asylum, recognition of colleges and no civilized left students and teachers. Hence the amendment which equated public universities with private colleges. The New Democracy Government did this too. Let me remind you at this point that we have been through again in declaring the conduct that was judged to be unconstitutional by the Privacy Authority. We passed on to the reintroduction of multi-day miscarriages, the ban on public meetings in November 17, globally throughout the territory. In the course of the Polytechnic School on 17 November, Mera25 asked its members not to go down the streets and instead made a symbolic course of seven MPs of the party, which I participated in. The government, however, blocked it by closing the public space to MPs and limiting their movement to a spectacular violation of the Constitution. All of this, while it became inseparable in the commercial streets of Athens and the rest of the cities. It is also challenging that it passes such a bill in the middle of a pandemic, with the possibility of reacting to employees from students and teachers. Let us not forget, however, how many bills have been passed by the House at night. It is also challenging when this party speaks of violence and lawlessness, the party that gave birth to Kalaboka and recently ministred Mr. Katsafados, who was involved in the known incident in 2003 with the dean of the University of Piraeus. Ladies and gentlemen, another issue is the minimum import base, which the Ministry advertises to Greek society. The great lie is that it is related to the upgrading of the quality of study. You claim that it is not right for students to be introduced to universities as they have appeared in recent years, with an average score of "5" "6", or "7". But you forget something very important. The fact that the base of these schools has fallen so low because of the fact that students and students do not say in the region because they have no money for their parents to study them because of the monumental economic collapse you have imposed on them by your signatures, as well as the past PASOK and SYRIZA. This is the real reason why the bases for introduction into the region are so low and not that good work is not done by our public schools. But you do not mention this anywhere. You are barely working on it, with the aim of closing down institutions in the province and, on the other hand, strategically decentralising the public character of our public schools, so that privatization can come as a one-way path. Ladies and gentlemen, the pan-Hellenics are not audits, i.e. you are good, you have the basis, you will pass. They're competitive. I mean, you set the number of admissionees and then you're looking for the best ones until the seats are filled. So if you want to improve the quality of study, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you should do exactly the opposite. In other words, instead of going to set up an import base, you should provide for a smaller number of admissionees to central universities rather than implementing this measure, which will continue the hydrocephalosis of central universities and put regional universities at risk. Finally, the Minister should ask himself how it is possible for a child who ends high school, to write a degree of '2' or '3', and whether such a performance is the result of teaching, the depreciation of high school, the fragmentary way of evaluating candidates or whether they are derived from somewhere else. What the government wants with the minimum import base is to throw the ball at the university in June. They will say "They didn't put you on." This year the invaders will be about twenty - thirty thousand less. And the solution will be private colleges for those who, of course, have money, have the financial potential. That's enough, Mrs. Keramea. Education is not under police control. You hire teachers, not police officers. The educational community is against you. Once upon a time listen to her! We as Mera25 will be next to the youth, next to the student movement and the academic community. We are voting against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, which introduces regulations on how to enter higher education, the protection of academic freedom and the upgrading of the academic environment. It is self-proof that this legislation serves progress and development and aims to put our country's highest education institutions on the rails of modernisation. It is a decisive step towards the passage of Greek universities in the era of legality, security and freedom. Finally, it attempts to transform the university's spaces into what it really needs to be, that is, in the areas of free movement of ideas, the development of science and the promotion of research. And if anyone here today says that our country was too late to go ahead with it, it will say a bitter but, at the same time, a great truth. But, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's delay should not be an inhibiting factor in today's objectives for a better tomorrow. However, neither the efforts that have been made so far, but, unfortunately, have not been implemented, can be the argument that we have once tried, we have done our duty, but we have not done so, because everything that takes us forward and we have not done so, is our duty to claim it until it is implemented. The current government, after all, was elected on the basis of a programme consisting of a set of reforms that will lead the country to the future, away from the paths of the past. And this program applies it faithfully, even in the unprecedented conditions for the global community created by the health crisis and the introduction of COVID -19 disease in our lives. In this context, the Ministry of Education - perhaps in the most difficult part of all - has been implementing a reform agenda for the overall and integrated upgrading of public and private schools, vocational education, Lifelong Learning, for the abolition of the asylum of lawlessness and the extroversion of educational institutions, as well as for the establishment of the National Authority of Higher Education. Part of this effort is the specific draft law, which comes to heal the greatest pathogen of the Greek university, that of the violation of freedoms and lawlessness, of massage in a few words. At the same time, the draft law introduces arrangements aimed at an overall upgrade of the level of study, which will add value to the universities themselves, to the titles they give, which primarily respect the students themselves, but also to the labors and sacrifices of their parents, who send their children to study in the hope of gaining a better tomorrow. We therefore have a legislative text, the provisions of which unfold into three main axes. The first axis is the arrangements for admission to public universities. Here we have the provisions on the introduction of the minimum school-based import base, which will strengthen academic conditions for admission to higher education, contribute to successful schooling and, above all, ensure that studies are completed on time. In addition, an innovative arrangement is introduced which provides for the supplementation of the computer to two phases with a specific and not unlimited number of possible options. This regulation in its first phase leads children to specific choices and ensures that those who wish to study are introduced into the sections above, rather than those who were in it by accident, with the known results not to complete their studies. In addition, the regulation of parallel computerized computing, which allows for the submission of a computerised account to be taken of a place in a public IEK, is also introduced. The second axis is, in full harmony with the logic of previous changes, the establishment of a maximum period of study. In the direction of upgrading the quality of study, the dismantling of Greek universities and the improvement of the rate of graduation and the timely introduction of graduates into the labour market, the Ministry of Education is always setting a maximum period of study with special care for workers and students with health problems, but also for those who already have not exceeded the upper limit of study. The third axis is the provisions on university security, the defence of academic freedom, the improvement and modernisation of the academic environment, the controlled entry into the universities, the creation of a Special Protection Corps, which will be subject to the Hellenic Police, mainly with the aim of preventing and addressing infractions within universities, as well as strengthening the provisions of Criminal and Disciplinary Law. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece, higher education, its role, its place in society, its way of working, and its development for many years have been a field of ideological conflict. "Straps" are known. On the one hand, the forces of progress, the free movement of ideas and democratic processes and, on the other, the forces of darkness and regression. In post-government years there have been brave efforts to reform public education and public universities. Unfortunately, they impacted the wall of ideas. We know, however, and now that we have eternal enemies of the reforms, those who are every time against any attempt to modernise and upgrade our universities. But this time progress will not be stopped. The citizens, who most support the New Democracy Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, are asking us not to stop. And we won't stop. The Greek universities will finally take the place they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u215	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Foreign Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Macrey, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is wise and sound for a serious and responsible government that has been elected to implement major, substantial, necessary reforms, invest in education, shield the new generation and the country so that it does not become characterized by poor knowledge, the absence of education, which we are not honoured at all, isolates us internationally, makes us soaring in every innovation, dividing and afflicting the Greek citizens at the same time. And I think that the legislative initiative under discussion in this matter is aimed, that is what it serves, this commitment is being implemented in the run-up to the election. So we are discussing today policy on education, which is the heart of democracy, which needs to be drastically relaunched, which requires a great deal of change, so that the institutions can also function properly in a sense of security, cooperation and it is understood that good education is dominated by universities. A great debate was held for eternal students and rightly because at the end of the academic year 2018-2019 of the six hundred eighty-seven thousand seven hundred thirty-four registered undergraduate students, two hundred two thousand five hundred eighty-eighty. Not only have they exceeded the intended time of study, but also the justified two-year increase. The figures are from the National Higher Education Authority and show that about one third of students belong to the above famous category. The representative of the respondents that 'eternal students' do not cost money, is cancelled from the actual intangible cost of poor or in any case unfair evaluation of structures, and also does not allow for the proper allocation of resources due to the presence of inert students. The great share of students who are truly interested in educating and not just getting the paper is confronted with the grim reality of reduced acceptance and recognition internationally, but also on the market of her degree. The discovery of George Mavrotas that universities are centres for the creation and transmission of knowledge and not a multi-annual parking of our best new minds, hypnotized by the fact that once they have entered, sooner or later they will come out law-abiding paper in their hand, fully expresses the philosophy of the relevant regulation with the requisite care for workers and those students who have their own or relative health problems. In no case does it express those who prolong their student life without these conditions being met, but for other, not academic reasons. This is why the minimum import base and the reform forecasts for supplementing the computerised form and the possibility of supplementing a parallel computer for public IEK are absolutely essential. Because a large proportion of students who do not complete their studies have been wrongly put into a school that they did not care about, trapped in it and decided not to complete the studies, increasing the number of students recorded, making it difficult to assess properly and effectively degenerate their prestige of degrees and structures. On the argument that anyone who doesn't enter the university because he scored '3' can - whoever doesn't go in - without tests to go to private colleges, the answer is that whoever students at the university give a white glue has also not been examined in fact. In my unprecedented argument to support poor children who have a low import score, the reality, unfortunately, proves that unemployment, the mockery of the state, and the scientific and professional decommissioning of the children themselves, is not tackled, but simply postponed. We wouldn't have to say a lot about supervising the class at universities in another country. In Greece, however, where some believe that it is the country of negligence and minor effort, the country of tolerance, illegality and infraction, this provision and welfare has been very concerned with public dialogue, with tensions, protests, demonstrations, reactions that do not concern students. Is it interesting to keep the order in the universities of those who signed the defense of Koufantina? But it is of interest to the vast majority of academics who want to teach freely and safely, to conduct scientific research. It is equally interested in targeted students, and is interested in society that is struggling for how the country will be after the first two years of its existence and there is the real social dynamic. The majority show us the way. I must also answer the allegations that prominent officials who have served as a member of our party, but also the area of education, have objections to the protection teams that will be kept by university institutions. I listened with caution and respect to them and read them, but I remembered the arson of the Polytechnic and the destruction of unique works of art, organs and workshops. I remembered that the damages cost the taxpayer Greek citizens half a million drachmas. I remembered that the regulation that would prevent disaster was not implemented. I also remembered the court's exonerating decision, which accepted that the accused dean was not responsible for the protection and protection of the space. One would expect after so many years when these illegal behaviours not just evolved, enriched, "improved", not to say perfected, which have often become a shameful and condemnable phenomenon, that acceptance of the spirit but also the substance of the bill on the application of the law to university institutions would be universal. We, ladies and gentlemen, want to end this illegality and want to end this effectively and fully compatible with the nature of university institutions. And we'll finish by voting on the bill, we'll finish by applying the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, too, Minister. Now Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there is any government in another European country or political leadership of the Ministry of Education, which is still attacking, deporting and slandering public education and, in particular, the public university. The Minister is repeatedly placed in such a logic. Unfortunately, we have also heard the dear State Secretary in the same logic repeating all these sad stereotypes. The reality is that the New Democracy Government has set a target for nineteen months since the 2019 elections, and it serves this goal. Every bill on the field of education comes to weaken public education, comes to strike the public university and serves college and private interests in the field of education. Of course, the bill we are debating today must all say that it goes beyond the worst authoritarian and reactionary nature of all the measures and provisions that have been brought to date by the New Democracy Government. You know, - a moment ago we talked about it here with fellow Members - a resolution came out of the University of Thessaly unanimously, which says 'at last, stop slandering the Greek university'. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the university has always been a vehicle of progress, of democratic and social transformation in our country, all the years of its operation. And one would expect a government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Education to talk about the Greek public university's offer, to honor the thousands of scientists who are dominated in our country and around the world, to mention - as the rapporteur, Mr. Friends - the upgrading of public universities and indeed the National and Kapodistrian on the evaluation list. So all you do - and you repeat it today against Coron - is that the Greek universities are a man of lawlessness and wrongfulness. What's behind this? Surely you want to serve the doctrine "law and order". You want to address a hard-core right audience. You want to address the fear and precariousness that is currently being cultivated in Greek society and you are also exploiting pandemic at a time when the universities are closed down to bring about such a reactionary legislative framework. But there's something deeper. It is the logic of the government as a whole - which you are serving faithfully - to challenge and harm the democratic and social acquis of post-multipleism. And you do it in every way and every means. So you come by taking the features of the most reactionary phase of your prolongation before the dictatorship of EPE, to underestimate your very liberal history after '74 and the Transmigration. Let us list all the relevant bills you have brought, the marches, the various appeals through the commander of the ELAS, as regards the meetings and the suspension of Article 11. Now you come with this bill to set up university police and put reasonable camera recorders, repression and intimidation into the field of university institutions. Of course you are also preparing the great anti-Semitism which will still have the same characteristics, to attack trade union and social rights. And the characteristic of all these arrangements you bring is criminalization beyond authoritarianism. You're enacting peculiarities. You have done so in the Law on Proceedings, you are now doing so here in the bill you bring and we are discussing education, where you come to criminalize trade union actions and other initiatives in the field of universities, and you have already announced that you will do so with regard to Law 1264 on labour in the forthcoming bill that you will bring for work. So attack in two ways. First of all, with the dismantling, that is, on the one hand, you have reduced expenditure, you are coming to the question of reducing the number of importers, which our rapporteur, Mr Philis, said could exceed all fourteen thousand on the basis of the assessment of the study he has submitted, and, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the regional universities, which put this class dimension in the whole functioning of public education and, in particular, of universities, you have already set up the carpet in colleges with all the provisions you have brought in the previous period. There is, of course, no level of introduction there too. There the Greek family will deposit money in crisis conditions. Of course, you have already made sure that they are both equal in terms of their diplomas and professional rights. Of course, what is completely unacceptable and authoritarian and without a prior overall European level is the provision for university police and all this monitoring and repression system that has been introduced by this bill. You have the entire university community in front of you. All the prefectures have come out and you have been told that it is unacceptable that the university community itself, and they have submitted you a proposal, should organise the preservation with permanent posts, with the corresponding funding it needs, with respect for the self-employed, who is not as you have presented it, Minister. Self-employed and academic freedom go hand in hand, is a united and democratic and academic conquest. That's the reality. So what you here are trying to impose on Greek society one thing is certain, that it will be a bill that you may go through with the majority you have, but it will not be implemented, as is absolutely certain that you are completely detached from social reality. The youth and social forces that feel anger and despair, know very well that at the moment they are in front of you. You may still be in the communication wall of your arrogance, but this social and democratic dynamic every day strengthens and will effectively cancel this authoritarian and reactionary bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u219	Thank you too, my colleague. Ms. Chapter of New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, "City that does not have education as its basis is built upon the sand" are words of the great Adamantios Korais. So, with this assumption, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs brings this bill to the debate and vote. It is a bill of forty-three articles that were rightly defined as common sense. Because he's just coming to highlight and institutionalize the self-evident. Because it contributes to upgrading the level of study in higher education institutions and improving the academic environment. Because it ensures more targeted, more qualitative choices for our students and more autonomy for our universities, and all this requires common sense. The only thing we may agree today, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is that we are all pursuing an autonomous modern and innovative system of higher education. Because, otherwise than the positions, one can easily see that today's bill is the distillate of our different worlds, of the different perspectives, of the different policies and imprints that we want to leave and which we are finally leaving in society. Fortunately, the vast majority of Greek society supports our decisions and stands on our side and on this issue. The draft law, as reflected in its title, deals with arrangements for the introduction and study at universities, the protection of academic freedom and the upgrading of the academic environment. In particular, we are establishing the minimum import base for universities. We aim to ensure the academic conditions of successful study and early completion of studies. We shield the validity of university studies and strengthen the autonomy of higher education institutions in this respect, since for the first time there is a decisive role for universities in the introduction of students. Currently students with an "0.6" or "1" degree in "20" are introduced and almost one out of three never graduates. The interconnected effort-result-reward relationship ceases to be in force. It's all leveled up, all in the same cauldron. The student who struggled, tried, tired, studied, set targets is introduced to the same school as the one who handed over white glue. It's unfair from whatever side we can see. We are primarily mocking the students themselves and underestimating common sense. So we come today and put an end to this levelling. Each university department will set as a minimum import base a percentage of the average of the average performance of all candidates throughout the four courses of the candidate's science field and the Ministry will determine the range for the percentage. The introduction at the school will ultimately depend on the total number of molecules achieved by the candidate compared to the other candidates who achieve the relevant minimum import base and declare this school as well as the number of available admissions. Another important arrangement: every university school will be able to determine the rate of gravity as a percentage by which each university course will contribute to shaping the candidate's molecules. For example, Physics will stipulate that physics is the most important lesson, the Chemical chemistry, and so on. This regulation further strengthens the autonomy of universities and their role in shaping academic conditions for admission of candidates. We are, of course, giving the necessary time to adapt to the new conditions as this regulation has been put in place since the summer of 2022. In addition, we're changing the process of completing the computer. Today, where there is essentially no restriction on the number of options, one can be introduced into one's hundred or two hundred choice, so he is studying something that was not in his basic preferences and at the same time depriving the position of someone who really wanted it. The regulation clearly aims at candidates making more conscious choices depending on their gradients, skills and priorities and eventually entering departments in which they really want to study. We put an end to 'eternal students'. The maximum length of study is six years for the four-year undergraduate courses and plus three years for curricula in which the minimum time exceeds four years. And since there may be serious reasons why a student does not complete his or her studies, special attention shall be paid to those for whom there is indeed a good reason for health on their own or in the close family environment, for students working over twenty hours a week, as well as for disabled students. And now we are going, ladies and gentlemen, to the part concerning the protection of academic freedom and the upgrading of the academic environment. I invite you to report to me a university institution in any civilized state in the world that happens today to some Greek schools. A university institution where everyone can enter without control and trampling, drug trafficking or building molotovs. A university institution that has had balls and anarchists hanging labels on the dean. A university institution that is afraid of its own traveling students. A university institution that is uncontrolled to destroy everyone without giving an account. There's not one. So our universities cannot continue to be clear vineyards. This is why we move forward with the establishment of a controlled entry to universities, the provision of an integrated framework for student disciplinary law and the establishment of a group to protect university institutions, a special group that will be subject to the Greek Police and is managed by staff with special training, tailored to the specificities of the university area. He will cooperate with the dean and the competent institutions of the university and his mission will be to prevent infractions and to deal with phenomena of violence and lawlessness within the institutions of the universities. We put an end to the invasiveness within universities and give the foundations to the true students and to the new generation's open brilliant minds. The safety and protection of universities is a prerequisite for the free movement of ideas and for the uninterrupted conduct of research and teaching in them. All our interventions in universities and education are in line with the demands of the times, leading us to tomorrow. Today's bill is a follow-up to a series of legislative initiatives by the government in the field of education, initiatives which give higher education institutions the value of alternatives to our young people, since the university is not a one-way path to follow the path that serves their gradients, skills and preferences. I would like to mention to you the draft legislation on vocational education and training adopted in December, which provides for the conditions for the effective upgrading of public post-training structures and their better connection to the real needs of the labour market, so that our new prospects and outlets are better suited. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I close, Madam President, in the words of Nelson Mandela: "Education and education are the most powerful weapon we can use to change the world." And today we are protecting this right to education and promoting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in a period of time, I would say, extremely charged with students, teachers, students and thousands of families struggling to deal with the pandemic, you are coming, Minister, as the Ministry of Education and you are choosing to legislate. So, what do you do in what? Legislate and effectively drugize the basic functions of the educational system at all levels. Let me remind you of Law 4635/2020 on the vocational equivalence of diplomas, colleges and foreign universities, Law 4713/2020 on the organization of private schools, the recent law on vocational education and training. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislation to be passed for a pandemic creates, I would say, serious disparities in education. In fact, I would say in conclusion that tele-education cannot replace the intra-school process. The results of this violent experiment, ladies and gentlemen, will be achieved in the face of us. However, the government is now coming to implement a different system of admission to universities. Sets from this year's import base. It has been putting a large section of candidates outside universities since this year. And one wonders: Is this a fair decision? Is that fair for the III-year-olds who are now two years away from school? Madam Minister, the reduction of admissions and the bases of introduction will lead to the enclosure of many regional university departments and you need to see this again. We told you from all the wings: Upgrade the IEKs with resources and infrastructure, with modern curriculum programs, so that our students can have a safe professional choice and education. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the Diamantopoulou Act, n.4009/2011 on Prime Minister George Papandreou, faced all the problems reintroduced in the bill. It aimed, I would say, at abstracting, internationalisation, creativity, excellence and the connection to the economy and the labour market. That is why it was voted in favour of two hundred and fifty five then Members. It was, of course, an exhaustive dialogue, a great consultation. Indeed, as a PASOK and a Change Movement, I would say, it was and is that in education there is a need for reform of broad consensus, which is essentially something that neither the previous government nor the current government are seeing. And despite the fact that the New Democracy had then voted for it, it then undermined it in an Arvanitopoulos Minister and then, of course, the SYRIZA - ANEL government came to abolish it by means of an act of legislation. I say them, so that we do not forget, to see, that is, who the reformists are and who the counter-reformists are. Because in this country we're not in the city of Phoephatia. Now I shall refer to the present draft legislation. In the first part, Minister, on the introduction to higher education, we are firmly opposed. That is why we are not going to vote on an article in the first part. And the reason is one. We believe that the introduction to the university should be linked to the establishment of the national education centre and to the use of the Foundation for the uniform evaluation of pupils as a prerequisite for access to higher education. Let us see how Higher Education - and if appropriate - can be converted into a preparatory year and at the same time set up at individual level of counselling and professional guidance programmes, which will help pupils to choose on the basis of their skills and their desire. Yes, I would say here, and not that they should be allowed to enter university in an accidental or many times unconscious choice. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we must apply what is being done today in many European countries, in many European universities: the introduction of students to schools and not to departments - we are constantly not doing so - on the basis of the criteria of gravity that will be defined by the same schools. We do not believe, moreover, that candidates with an "1" "3" rating in the pan-Hellenic exams with an excellent "20" should be introduced. After all, they are doomed and will never be able to finish. So what do we do? We add to eternal students and others. But, Minister, we believe in a different framework of application and a different university, where the student will self-assess himself, I would say, self-determination and, in fact, self-awareness, choose. Now, with regard to the second part, on the so-called upgrading of the academic environment, our position is unequivocal to violence and lawlessness, but also to police domination within the university. Other security and security and other policing. Why are we vertically opposed? Because by granting the protection of the university area to a police department supervised by the Ministry of Protection, Article 16 is repealed. Ladies and gentlemen, it belongs exclusively to universities under Article 16 of the Constitution, which is fully defined by the self-employed. Let me remind you here of the Step forward that Mr Chrysochidis had said that he does not fit in the field of university law and police. Then he changed his mind? It's a question of all of us. Yes, we recognise that the administrations have shown frugality, have somehow, I would say, given, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility of safeguarding the unauthorised students by causing, of course, unconsciously confusion and tension in the universities. There are responsibilities and they need to be taken over. With these considerations, we have tabled a proposal for a law on the preservation and protection of HEIs with an autonomous organic structure that will be directly subject to the dean of HIIs and will cooperate with the competent services and institutions of the institution, with staff who will be trained through IACS who will be appropriately trained, with resources from the state budget and, in addition, with funding allocated to cover these costs. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the administrations of universities must assume their responsibilities. Finally, with regard to the Disciplinary Law of the HR, yes, I need, I would say, a clear framework for disciplinary bodies. There was a provision in Article 5 of Law 4009/2011, which - I say again - the New Democracy and SYRIZA then abolished. We also need to have a clear mind that it is the academic community that has to define its rules in the internal regulations, I would say, which concern all its members and not what we see and which is reflected in this draft law, namely, disciplinary provisions aimed only at students. Finally, I should like to say a few words about Article 34 which refers to the length of study. We're in favour of the student limit. In addition, there was provision in Law 4009/2011 for institutions to decide on the conditions for continued schooling after "n + 2" the four-year sections and "n + 3" for five years. However, Minister, there is a need for specific care for students who have social problems, students who work or have other family or health problems. Delete must be the last instrument. Madam Minister, finally, I would like to say that the absence of dialogue, the summary procedures and the imminent hearing of the bodies confirms our firm position as a Change - PASOK for the immediate functioning of the ESS and respect for the independent authorities. You have often referred to them as opposition and ignored them today as government. I would say to you that the views that have been put forward here and take account of our comments, which we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Development and Investment, Education and Religious Affairs, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Justice, Home Affairs, the Ministers of State and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Development and Investment and Home Affairs tabled a draft law on 9-2-2021: 'Missionary and human resources issues of the Independent Public Income Authority'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The speaker of the New Democrat Republic has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the leadership of the Ministry of Education with this draft law goes on to flagrant reforms, which I personally welcome first as a parent and secondly as a MP. This is a bill that, as the Minister for Education has said attributes, is aimed at common sense. To complement, in the common logic of average humanity, the logic of parents who want a safe academic environment for their children, but also the logic of students who aim at a modern, upgraded educational establishment. This bill is, I would say, abstention in the logic that all the principles and values that this empowers at university are cultivated. One of these is the principle of dignity, which is guaranteed by the introduction of a minimum basis for introduction to universities. The minimum basis for introduction will even determine the educational establishments themselves, so that through the full autonomy we give them, they can form the academic profile they want. So far, we have seen students enter on the basis of one, two, three, twenty, who then have to face the high requirements of the university. The result? 'Eternal students'. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are accusing us of reducing the number of importers and even in the third, because they will not be introduced into university students with a white glue. Mr. Philly, will you answer us after all? Do you want full parity, the massive inaccurate introduction to universities, without any merit? And if so, who do you represent? It is a reasonable question for me, because the majority of society in over 63% is in favour of minimum import bases. In an investigation carried out, even the SYRIZA voters voted in favour of the basis for introduction to the majority of them. A similarly significant change in the bill is the prevention of students ponds by providing a limited number of options for computerization. We help our children to make specific, conscious and mature choices, avoiding accidental and short-term introductions to higher education institutions. At the same time, however, we are strengthening the choices and building alternatives for these children with the possibility of parallel computerisation in public IEK. Let's finally finish with the stereotypes of the past. Our children must follow their gradients, skills and preferences. The university must cease to be a one-way, reflecting outdated perceptions that have led to saturation of certain professions. Education must meet the new, constantly changing needs of the modern labour market. With regard to the crucial reform of the time limit for completion of studies, although for almost all European states it is self-evident, it is still a matter for us. To prove this, the figures from EYROSTAT, because, as I have said many times, the arithmetic is not an opinion of everyone having their own. On the total number of students registered in Europe in 2018, the rate of graduates in our country was only 9%, when the average graduation for the other European countries is 24%. We therefore seek to overthrow this negative record of eternal students for our country. We provide incentives for our students to complete their studies more quickly. What does that mean in practice? It means faster integration of human resources into the labour market. With regard to this, who was your counterpart, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? You blame us for simply saying self-evident, that there has to be a beginning, a half and a half. We must assist in the choices of our children, delimiting their studies to prevent or not to prevent and create three-five "semi-circuits" to use your own ravenous. You insist that SYRIZA be subjected to vocational education and public IEK, considering the lowering of universities. This logic is that has led to the congestion of universities, the saturation of the labour market, the dismantling of diplomas and, finally, unemployment. The state's debt, however, is to build choices for young people to choose the educational process that suits them, according to their gradients, abilities and interests. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, apparently, want the mass production of unemployed graduates. You're shunning the DIKs, while you're proposing private colleges as the only alternative to those who don't finally manage to join a university. Finally, with this bill, we are bringing the university into the sphere of legality, which means that it must be placed in a position. We are giving priority to ensuring that the higher education institutions comply with the system of controlled entry to them, with the establishment of university protection teams, set up by highly trained human resources. We are ambitious to put an end to phenomena of illegal violence and unlawful behaviour in the field of universities, phenomena of violating behaviour that we want, not to suppress, but to prevent them, because with controlled access to the campus of universities and OPIs we are on hand and we can talk about preventing possible criminal offences. We can and must create a climate of security and confidence within our universities. And what was said by you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? That this bill violates human and personal data. It is at least funny to invoke the protection of personal data when you, as a government, ignored the obligation to consult the Privacy Authority on all drafts. In contrast, we incorporated into the bill the relevant opinion and the comments of the authority. As far as university police are concerned, you are basically opposed to the incorporation of academic freedom and the framework for preventing and preventing acts of violence and lawlessness through effective - finally - intervention by IPOs. You prefer today's image of universities to act as asylum seekers of lawlessness. The Movement of Change on the one hand seems to understand the need to secure our universities, but what does it propose? Civil servants, just guards for the care of university institutions? All right, who are you kidding? Should we hire these guys and actually do nothing? Just for the eyes of the world to replicate what is already happening today without any results? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty towards the new generation, our children to deliver an improved, upgraded and better university, beyond micro-party objectives and ideas. We must ensure the free movement of ideas, the uninterrupted conduct of research and teaching, academic freedom in its true dimension. Let us finally raise the space of universities in an area of genuine freedom, in which the free development of the personality of everyone will be promoted, without fear and without terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs. Kafantari has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, 9 February, is the International Day of Greek Language, one day, established by the Government of SYRIZA with joint ministerial decisions by three Ministries and Education and Foreign Affairs in 2017. Its importance is important. And you chose, gentlemen of Mr. Mitsotakis' government on this day to bring a bill on education. Before I begin, however, I would like to respond to two, three issues mentioned by the previous speaker in the New Democracy. For graduates in Greek universities, I will say that our graduates and in the years of the crisis are 43.1%, when the average in the European Union is 41.6%, the proportion of public expenditure on GDP is low and - if you like - the total funding for higher education is lower than the average in the European Union. Because the New Democracy colleague has referred to both the IEK and the PES, we must not forget that you are putting barriers to public IEKs as well as the draft law. Not all specialties. And those who are favoured once again, as was done in the Samara government, are private IEKs. I come to the bill starting as follows: Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, education is an important matter. When French historian Michelle asked "What is politics?", his answer was: "First, education, second, education, third, education". Where there is ignorance and lack of knowledge, fear and prejudice prevail. You spoke of modernization, reform. Unfortunately, the word reform has been specifically linked to education at dark times. I'll just say one thing. Essential reform in education was two: in 1964, when free education finally came, free books and 1976, when the primary language came back. But the ideological policy of Mr Mitsotakis' government is reflected in this draft law, which we are debating. Following the equalization of the professional rights of colleges with the HEIs, polytechnics and so on, you are now coming and continuing this policy. Because for you education is only for the few, it is only for the perfect ones. Only the excellent ones happen to be college graduates, 'gens' or some - and here I am not, because it is not all of them - who may have bought degrees. For Mr Mitsotakis, however, who has given examples of writing from his first places, I cannot forget - and we do not forget - what he said at the IGC in 2019: "I cannot understand a society without inequality. This is contrary to human nature." It has said other things, of course, that in the poor neighbourhoods of western Athens, in Peristeri, they must become cooling or repair lifts, while for others in the north it is probably the education, universities, etc. In this ideological logic, then, is the draft law, which you bring. Madam Minister, the new student is psychologically raped, who wants to enter the university this year. In the midst of a pandemic, you come and bring settings and changes in the educational way of examination to the pan-Hellenic exams, with changes in the basis of introduction, while some children, students are threatened - and it was heard by your ministry - that they may enter fines if they stop five minutes in the square. At the same time, however, what do you say about children who do not have access to the tele-education you celebrate? Here, we've filed a report. In western Athens and Agia Varvara, with elements of the parents' club, three hundred students did not have access to televised education and are in danger of being charged absenteeism. These are the problems. And such interventions had to be made in the midst of a pandemic. You're cutting up dreams on children. They're estimated about twenty thousand non-universities. Madam Minister, the anti-democratic catastrophe has no end. You're coming to the universities now. Unfortunately, I did not hear a good conversation from the coup d'état. It's a two-five-five-five-four-four-four. Under the 200s, in the hundreds of eighty-eighties of the EMCDDA in the international rankings. The Greek university, however, is not, ladies and gentlemen of the government, only drugs and obstacles, as you wish, and we hear today. There are such phenomena too. And there is relevant legislation to deal with. He needs to be safe, but everything with the responsibility of the Republican authorities. Why are you doing this, the university police? Beyond the ballot, which is a thousand special guards of three hundred new, the master is why you're afraid. Afraid of youth. Because they are confronted with your anti-grassroots and irreversible social policy, as the Greek people are slowly aware. Instead of upgrading universities with recruitments around the three thousand teachers estimated to need, support research, digital infrastructure, support for innovation, policies to attract Greek diaspora scientists and partnerships with foreign universities, you establish the police within university institutions. You're terrorizing the world. You want to terrorize the youth, because you're afraid of her, like I said before. You're cultivating fear. I close, saying: No authority when he messed with the youth didn't get won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Koutsoubas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Madam President. I shall be speaking, ladies and gentlemen, about the bill, putting forward some thoughts, concerns, concerns and concerns that concern me not only in my capacity as a parliamentarian, but also in my capacity - and I speak to you with these simple thoughts from the heart - as a father, a parent who has a student's son and another candidate. I am conveying these thoughts and reflections, because these thoughts have concerned me - and I will say this today before the House, reminding the oldest people here - when I was at the Legal School representative of my resignation and my positions, consistent with my position today, expressing the Communism, were, in fact, the ones that are in the essence and the content of the draft law you are bringing forward for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, we must admit something: there is a common assumption from all previous speakers. There's a real problem. Everyone has spoken of an unbearable situation, of infringibility, of a situation in which everyone, either in the atmosphere and in the indiscriminateness of each government - and of our own - or in the behaviour of counter-population. Of course, the question arises as to whether there is a necessity and appropriateness to be discussed. So there is, since we all agree, we accept that we have this problem. And so we must stand sober and try as much as possible. I don't hope to convince you. But I hope to give you some thoughts and questions. The second reason is that, with this bill, with this legislative intervention, the government is implementing - we are not opposed to what we have been saying, please blame us for this - an election commitment to Greek society. And we are happy and happy that we can do it, regardless of whether each one of you has different opinions. So the question comes and is raised. It is a fact that every reform has reactions because either interests are affected or behaviours and practices of the past are abolished. The question is: Is time appropriate? Is society ready? Does he accept such intervention and is it necessary and desirable for the majority of students to do so? I mean the silent majority, not to talk about organised minorities. The political system - here is our responsibility - is it ready to overcome and overcome ideologies and strangles, to change ways of thinking and political appreciation and behaviour and to confess reality, inaction for so long and to accept? Given that we need to know when we are responsible now, we are addressing a new generation, that the electorate has changed, that there is another behaviour of the electorate, that the political system is not enough to see the problem. Because if it is left to it alone, it becomes part of the problem. He must be trying to get a solution. And you, with your refusal, struggling with ideas and prejudices, do not contribute to finding a solution to any reactions and objections that you may rightly raise and there are some concerns on your part, I would say. So let's go see below. This negative position helps to perpetuate the problem and the solution, therefore, or the atmosphere does not work well. We need to get rid of the political system, get rid of the negative hypocritical political behaviour and tell the truth to the Greek people, the Greek society, to the Greek student, no matter how unpleasant these truths are, because we all agree in principle that there is the problem of university operation and the situation needs to be corrected. Greek society in the face of this situation and the majority of university students support this bill positively. The question you are all addressing, so that you do not be sad at a nonexistent, small, I would say, audience, which is a minority. You must respond clearly. Three points I'm going to put briefly. Do we have to insist on these localistic perceptions to meet our client needs, as we have previously done, in 2015, in 2019, and have you brought the last day of the plenary session to vote in schools and universities in every city and every village? You remind me of the "Every city and stadium, every village and gym". We must not tell the truth that we have universities, that we do this functionally, that we do this better. Do we have to exhaust our political behaviour on our clientele needs? Shouldn't we finally get away from this hypocrisy? The second is: I do not understand why you are reacting to this feminine, I would call it, to the degree of admission to eternal students. Isn't it at the expense of downgrading the quality of study? Are the studies not degraded when we have eternal students, or when we have students, who go, why do they not want in universities, while we might have shown the way to technical schools, technical professions, something else? We may be suffering and have not done it as government and all of us. Would that be the right thing to do? Third is security. I accept that as the left of the past, you had an allergy to the term "Police". But tell us if there is any regime - and you who have also ruled - right, left or totalitarian, a state, a coordinate state not having the police? The question raised: Do we consider it a state entity? Does it belong to the state? Is the state's right to apply the laws within the university community? Is it possible for the Constitution to perform other police duties than the police? I have my concerns. I'm telling you straight away. I told the Minister that. Are we transferring the conflict fields into the universities? And here comes the political system, ladies and gentlemen. Here comes our responsibility to help us all in our behaviour to show that we must, because I do not think that any of you - neither of you - want any violation or damage to universities - I believe it - or crime, nor sell drugs. She wants better studies. If you don't want all this, why don't you contribute? If you don't want this uncomplicated entry into anyone's universities, what do you mind having an identity check? Here we come out to the Constitution to go under our offices and the police, who don't know the children, ask us for identities. Is democracy at risk if they're going to ask us for an ID on who comes into college? Do you believe that or do you think the Greek society believes that? I think, therefore, that because all of this and you do not want it, you want something to change, so it comes in - to combine it - the political system to say: we must put an end to all this. You will not do this for us, to vote for the bill or to contribute to another proposal, but to do it for the new generation, because if this bill fails, if we do not manage, then we are helping to continue to violate, to perpetuate the problem. Let each one assume his responsibilities. We want better universities, public universities, and we all have the responsibility to prove it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Pappas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a personal report. I remember the time when I was a student at the University of Thessaloniki and then at the Athens Economics Law, I was an active student, I was a member of the P.D. - P.D.K., the great liberal party that didn't break, he didn't build in offices, and he didn't threaten teachers. I remember, however, that we were constantly putting forward proposals. So, then, we were discussing exactly the same things: why should universities be a mess? Why should university spaces be intertwined with infraction and violence? Why can anyone freely say his opinion in a square, in any square in Greece, but not in a university amphitheater? Why can't the university enter a classroom and show up both the level of our students and our teachers? What, anyway, can we do to improve the level of institutions that Greek citizens are studying? Do you know what the conclusion is? That no tertiary education is handled since postmultiple, and then I'd say it didn't work. Today's image of universities in the center of Athens, Thessaloniki, but also regional universities is the result of the non-good management of Postmultimedia. And to catch up with the officers of Officerial Opposition, obviously there are institutions. Yes, there are institutions that proudly make Greece with their success. The problem is, do you know what it is? That these institutions are an exception to the rule, whereas they should be the rule. And, unfortunately, people who put their hand in our universities' descent are in here, sitting in the opposition seat and swinging us all these days. Why? Because we just do what we were saying in the election. We are doing what the Greek people promised and voted for us. Ladies and gentlemen, the sad rule of these comes to overthrow the Ministry of Education's bill. What does this bill provide for? We are setting a new framework for the introduction to higher education. In particular, account will be taken of the minimum import base and the total number of molecules collected by the applicant in four globally examined courses. So far we have seen students enter primary school even with "1", with "0.8", while we know that 30% of them never graduate and we know that this number, unfortunately, is growing. I understand, gentlemen, your rabies reaction to this system. You have no problem getting in '0.8', '1', '2' or '3'. Why don't you have a problem? Because you just like populism. I'd also say that the computer will be deposited in two phases. Universities with these structural and substantial changes have a decisive role to play in the introduction of students. It is important that these changes do not affect the preparation of this year's candidates, since the changes concern their selection and registration at their preference schools. A student ceiling is also set to bring an end to the phenomenon of eternal students. Student limit will be for new entrants from 2022. At the same time, transitional provisions are provided for students who are currently studying. You also understand, and we all understand the reasons why you want eternal students or, to speak in your own dialect, "impressive" thirty-five or more years old. It is a question of perception once again of populism. This is where the bill gets to you when you go and gamble with the students who work. There is a special provision, which provides the possibility of part-time study for students who work. Now we are going to the issue that really upsets you, the issue of university security, where modern and structural changes take place. You tell every public intervention you have that nowhere in the world does this body exist. For the economy of conversation, let's agree. We won't disagree about that. But I want you to tell me really and answer me - I can't wait - if in any country in the world they've occupied eternal students in halls and in them they make molotovs, they have wooden bats, and they're moving drugs undisturbed. From now on, there will be a mandatory system of controlled access for each HEI. Finally, in the universities of reason, 'treat dogs'. Protection teams are being established for university institutions, managed by Greek police personnel with special guards. It will be subject to the Ministry of Citizen Protection and, in cooperation with the competent disciplinary authorities, will be responsible for preventing and dealing with infringements. At the same time, there is provision for the reform of the Disciplinary Law for students at the IOIs by designing a comprehensive framework. You know, in society, if you make an energetic act, apart from civil responsibility, you also have disciplinary sanctions. In opposition, you do not want either, but thankfully for us and our country, you do not rule. What do we achieve with these settings? These specific arrangements aim at upgrading the quality of the education provided to all the universities in the country, strengthening the autonomy of universities, ensuring academic freedom, students, teachers and workers in them to feel safe in the spaces of the universities, the places they study, the places they work. Universities will be an exclusive area of development, ideas, progress and creativity. It will no longer be a place of protection of any kind of blasphemy or illegal and violating behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, you are choosing at a critical time for home polarization. You are, in fact, choosing it for reforms relating to education. You are showing an impatient and irresponsible attitude. Proof of this irresponsible attitude is your participation in pandemic at pandemics. You're talking about health, here you've all spoken about what happened in Ikaria, and you're currently putting people down on marches in the center of Athens and putting the public image of our country at risk. Under normal circumstances, we had to discuss proposals that universities would best do. You suggest that everything stay the way it is and don't change anything. The issues and reform in education are not about your little political audience, rather eternal students. It's about the next generations. It's about the future of the place. You choose your past with your attitude. We choose the future, the new generations and progress. In the end, we will all be judged by the Greek people and by history. We must give the people and future generations hope that a university that deserves our culture and our history can achieve it and build it. As Pythagoras said, one of the seven wise men, the foundation of each state is the upbringing of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Madam President. 'You are populists', 'bugs', 'irrity', 'eternal students'. That's your phrase, is that your Greek university account, for a "voltage" bill? And you're dealing with the bollocks, the eternal students and the lawlessness. And you're also telling us an emblematic bill. Good for you! Take a little care of the "absolute", what foreign journalists said about the country's Prime Minister: "If he was a Prime Minister in Germany, he would have been broken down with all that happened in Ikaria". In fact, foreign journalists - and in Europe, too - have taken care of you - note that Greek media dependency by the Mitsotakis Government is becoming at risk for democracy. I think they're listening there to the ERT that, competing with SKAI these days in propaganda and "burial", they're embarrassing the story or, if you like, the institution of public television. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are today supporting a bill undermining the public university, with many collateral losses to the detriment of society as a whole. A bill attacking democracy and public education. A bill that is an extremist act of ideological tactics and obsession. At a time when uncertainty and the future have nested in every Greek household, it grows with the "wound" in public universities. Why else would someone take the reduction in the number of importers by at least 23% compared with 2020 in public universities? On the basis of the introduction to universities, which you want to legislate, you exclude thousands of secondary school pupils from their admission to higher education. Why do you put the Greek family, their young and their dreams on adventures? But you want to keep the circle shut. You decide by hatred toward the new generation, almost punishing the economically weak. You're hitting public universities. This year's reduced budget for higher education, the non-procedure of the posts of UCLAF professors who have remained vacant, the smaller number of importers will have the fatality of merging and abolishing parts of our universities. Anguish for a place on the "sun" will blow off economic planning on the "air". And if the goal is not achieved, finding resources, as you say, and as you prophesy, for attending private colleges where you are pushing young people in every way, will create the same problems. Because in the present economic context, the low-popular strata fail to support such economics. And after the introduction to tertiary education, however, the suffocating framework will continue to exist at the police campus you dream about. You hire special guards, who will police universities, in the areas of free movement and production of ideas. What training will they carry in a space of eighteen-year-olds? Don't you understand the danger she's in for that? After all, for criminal offences, wherever they are committed, the police intervene after the abolition of asylum by your own government. After possessing the university systematically and emphatically in every appropriate way in the eyes of Greek society as the most important area of violations, you are now presenting the permanent presence of the police at higher education institutions as necessary. You spoke neither of its achievements nor of the position of Greek universities on the global map of higher education. You don't like that the Greek public university so far is on the "foam" of the international classification and the bottom of the colleges. But, as you said, you're colleges and prefects addicted to the threat of abuse. No one underestimates the problem of infraction in universities. In no case, however, is it treated with armed special guards, but by understanding and utilizing the proposals of the university community. In any case, university guarding and protection cannot be of a police nature and without undetermined repression. Your goal is to cultivate fear. You want to check what you are afraid of, your challenge and the question of your policies by young people, the new generation. Apparently, fear and repression are the most sure ways to keep a society silent, especially if you have failed at all. And you failed in everything, in the economy, in the management of pandemic, in public health, in public education, in social security. In 11% recession, when we had 7.5%, 208% public debt and private debt evacuation, over a million unemployed, such as in 2010, impoverishment and hunger in the private sector, over three hundred thousand uninterrupted pensions. I hear these days that you're giving retroactive master pensions to the heirs. To the pensioners, the retroactive and the main outstanding pensions will you give them? Are you going to pay those to the heirs someday? Thousands of unemployed without unemployment benefit, thousands of business enclosures. You characterize non-seasonal businesses to deprive 350 euros of the unemployed who are starving. Mr. Brutsis is here to know these things. You are talking about support for the socially vulnerable groups and you are not ashamed. Almost the educational period ends with hundreds of vacancies in education. Minister, the pre-school education rooms you promised us in September are still missing. You opened the schools without security measures, without cleaners, with multiple sections and inconsistent teachers. You can see the results. When do we get back together? From the 7-1-2021 experts tell us that there is a third pandemic wave and we will mourn many victims. Two thousand four hundred coronary cases show prognostic models for early March. Awesome prediction. That's what scientists say now. And you, mountain - sea, sea - mountain, continue to play the lives of people crown letters. But now you can't say you didn't know. You can't say we haven't been informed. You can't say, Mr. Mitsotakis, that you're retrapped. Because I don't have time, Minister, listen carefully. Give me a minute, Madam President. It's essential. "We are students, workers, whose real needs forced us to stop our circular studies at a younger age. And adults now, often parents, we work, we seek our own opportunity to continue our studies, to improve our personal and social status." It's the graduation union announcement. Madam Minister, you repeal Article 105 of Law 4547/2018. Remove the constitutional requirement for isology and order that set 1% of additional posts in the PIOs and in the sperm high schools. You honor the fighters of life, learning. We won't let you. I expect you to give us an answer by the end of the sitting. She's been waiting out there for the children who you classify as children of a lower god. I'm closing, Madam President. Forgive me and thank you for tolerance. Madam Minister, last September you told us that you would solve the problem and the question of teachers. Remember I triumphantly triumphantly. You've been mocking us for three months now. You told us three months. You told us that this problem would solve it. Because it was not the responsibility of these people, those teachers, to stay out of the two competitions for a paradox of three euros. I expect you to give us an answer today. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Boobas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about something that we are all responsible for. We are talking about tomorrow in this place, but it is time for those who have ruled this place since 1974 to consider your mistakes. I have to use some opinions from people who mark the field of education. Alexander Dumas says "How can we have new smart and adult spoons?". Something's wrong with education. Well, the Greek Solution made some suggestions. The government took them, but in copying it made too many points wrong. That is why we are reacting to many articles. I do not want to have this syndrome of the past for the party organisations that operate as an incubation of the party egg, but let that go, gentlemen. Because if you're right about your ideological cruising, when they come out of the university, they'll still be actively civilized cells. That's the citizens we want. We don't want a cliché. We want a policy to produce. To say some truths with some evidence, because we all talk in general and vaguely. We put forward concrete proposals because we have to look into the Greek side and tell him. We have to do something about college. To be well-being, straightforward, free view of ideas. Clearly, this is the quintousity of democracy. But today you go out on the sidewalk and ask a family man whose child is studying at the university. What does the wise people say? If you don't get married, if you don't study and if you don't build a house, you don't understand anything. Then it's the big deal. Do you know what father and mother say? You know that, but you don't admit it. "Look, son, when you go to college, don't get into any occupations, don't mess with parties and get it over with on time. I am a builder or a farmer and I am trying with my cut to study you." That's a reality. So what do we want? We want universities with boldness and they produce real brains. It is not a question of us learning to the new one what to think, but how to think. Now let's go see mistakes. They're burning mistakes. The government now says 'n + 2', 'n + 3', by Article 34. It's not about the eternal student. The point is to help the child get a degree on time. Why don't we do the examinations like Italy, France and Britain do every university year? I'll give you an example because you're a lot of lawyers here. Add to the law student's basket forty-two lessons. He's in danger of losing his degree if he goes through thirty-eight and stays outside for four. So what do we do? You want to keep going? Prerequisite. You spend the previous lesson to give the next one to get the next one. So they don't accumulate until they finish lessons from the first semester. Is it the student we're giving him the lessons in the basket? No, it's the educational system. That's the warning difference. We asked as Greek Solution the Dean of Aristotle, Mr. Papaioannou, when the institutions had come. He said "yes are the prerequisites, but it's a technical matter and we can't talk about it at the moment". Isn't that a matter of talking to prevent eternal students? There are cases, my Minister, where you said to open up social vendals. There are farms for which I do not know whether 'n + 2' is enough. They have retired or toward pensioning parents and they expect the OGA to retire. They have to go to the field. Put on income criteria. This kid, this student will be forced to do a black job, work a deliper. What will the employer tell him? "I don't declare you, but come and work, and if the work inspection comes in, go through the back door and go with the motorcycle or go to the lassier." How will they justify twenty hours a week? So social vendalia to vulnerable students certainly needs to be opened. They are mistakes paid by New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA for which we must consider our responsibilities. I do not want education to be a party criterion at this time, so that we can breast-feed people who really live there. Let's go to the special search fund account. We've told you as Greek Solution. Universities' investigations should come by law to light. What are we doing with the investigations then? Why would the taxpayer pay them? They would help the market and there would be more direct labour connections with the market in order not to make the coroner's licence or to leave abroad, so that they could return. Why don't we do that? And why do we have ELKA accountancy with bureaucratic claws? Do you not know the cooking of university students and teachers about how they are elected? And they are not elected by single ballots. Why don't we talk about student organisations which are an example of imitation? We have not said that there are no student organizations within the universities. There are, but there are no parties. There is a student in Patras Panhellenic. She had been extended to Argos, Serres, my county, Piraeus and elsewhere. What's he saying? 'Outside the parties from the universities'. Why has no party ever agreed to break up its youth? Now that New Democracy brings the bill, the FDA is keeping it well in the universities. There's too much. There is an initiative of independent students at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. How are the teachers assessed? That's very simple. But simple is always hard. Everybody go to your students years. Many of you studied either undergraduate or postgraduate in private universities abroad. Don't hide. And you did well. It's a different matter. How is a professor assessed by his students? When the student goes to college, they tell him that to give you a job, or to take notes, or to come to a student party and get close to the teacher who is difficult and difficult and peculiar - when this person hits! - Come to our party, our party. How does the student feel? He has no personality and entity by voting. So at the school of Preschools of Thessaloniki and at other universities - but this should be law - the evaluation is made by a platform where questions are asked about the teacher's teaching method, but also about the profile, about his personality, without knowing who votes for him. But the professor knows the student's his own, he's in the department. Immediately then, the evaluation is more democratic through students and a digital platform in Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should've been talking too long. See Wales, see Holland, see teachers who talk about keeping in Yale, Princeton, Liverpool, France. They are the Calibas, Miles, Nehamas. It's not me! To tell the teachers correctly, it's Stathis the Kalyvas, Stavros the Katsanvas in France. There's a check! Esprian high school. Why? Simulate the day-to-day. 1% were entitled to positions, but the basis for the special import base was defined among the students of the citrus. Look, if some people went into the citrus evil to get the molecules, that's another parameter. There is, however, also the fact that "near dry lands will also burn greens" by adults or bio-population students. And why are you preventing these students from giving the highest military schools? We, of course, as a Greek Solution, have another view of military schools. But here there's an injustice for the elf high school, that four months before we announce this to them. Listen to me. We cannot advise at this time because of our pandemic, our children, and above all cut their dreams and hopes. Because the previous generation that passed such a pandemic does not live. It was either 1917-1918 with H1N1, the Spanish flu, or with the bite fever and Eleftherios Venizelos, which was closed by parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u236	So let's be close to our kids to tell them the truth. For if we really want education and jewelry and shelter to be, we must not forget how time-consuming is the saying of Isocrates, which says: "Education is happy in this world,..." - education for those who are happy is a jewelry - "...an unforgettable refuge." We also want it to be a refuge for the popular layers. Let us finally say the truth, open up a debate on the substance. You do not bring about a pandemic of such a bill that is at stake in the future for future generations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u238	We suggested this to you to be close to our children and close to the middle Greek family. That's a big deal about education. Put it right in your head! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. For seven minutes, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is truly very impressive that the majority today welcomes and triumphs for a bill reflecting the most anachronistic, most failed and conservative views of education. It is an ideological distortion, which obviously perceives education as a marketable product in pure market terms, as well as knowledge as a marketable product. How disastrous this is for education, as well as for society itself, it proves it to be your ‘ imagery’. I am referring to the American example. It is true that, after World War II ended, when thousands of young soldiers were returned, who literally did not have a fate in the sun, it was the Roosevelt Government itself who had to legislate to fund the cost of studying all students from the state itself, from the state itself. So the post-war generation of the 1920s proved unwittingly how beneficial and useful public education can be for society. And I say this because it will finally have to collapse the myth and the account of the government that American universities are self-financed companies. Not only that is not the case, but what is true is that they receive huge subsidies from the state and that many are State-owned universities, universities which are far too far from the logic of "teaching" and Reagan's logic of student loans and other fine papers. So, then, the public in relation to American education financed the research, financed the facilities, financed the infrastructure and, in this way, thousands of young people, who would end up in the best case of craftsmen or unskilled workers, became renowned scientists who were able to raise the gross national product, stimulate the economy, find jobs both themselves and their children and, of course, maintain thousands of university departments which, until then, market laws, supply and demand had literally condemned nonexistence. Not only did the economy grow, but unemployment has declined, pay has increased, many young people have focused on research, arts and letters have been promoted and, of course, universities have become the most important areas of osmosis, fermentation and the cultivation of progressive ideas where there have been literally thousands of battles. They have become a battlefield for claiming social justice, social equality, the cultivation of individual freedoms, the proclaiming of freedoms and individual rights. So the stereotypes have been broken and a new middle class has emerged, which has conquered exactly what you fear with this bill, the radicalization of ideas. And we are now coming to the bill of the Ministry of Education, which forms part of the logic and the framework of 'neutralism', since we see very large budget towels in relation to underfinanced, subordinated education, which lacks infrastructure, lacks funds and expenditure in research. We see that what is being promoted is transgression and private education, because you want to reduce not only the university departments, but above all the minimum import bases to exclude at least twenty-five thousand young people from the universities and turn them into dubious private education. And I say 'different quality', because there is not even the elementary evaluation, thereby devaluing public universities, which in the world ranking tables have the best positions as opposed to private colleges and the American university 'Deree'. Because I see you reacting, I have numbers. I can tell you that the Kapodistrian is in the eighteenth place worldwide, Aristotle is in the two hundred and Deree is in the position of two thousand eighty-eighteen in the rankings. These are the performance of public universities in relation to private education. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] In America you say they are business, they have even introduced high quotas into scholarships. You don't even anticipate that! On the contrary, by proving that for you the crisis is an opportunity, as you have taken care of the private clinicians, who have contributed the little so long to the health crisis by calling on them so long to do, as you have done to strengthen them with a great deal of money, so now you are actually coming to support your loved ones "the day", the private schoolmasters. So you are making education a privilege for the few and not a acquis for the many. I'll close my place with the university police. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I want little tolerance, Madam President. You want to cultivate, obviously, a climate of terrorism in universities, gag student movements, inspire a climate of authoritarianism, invoke the pretext and account of lawlessness. You know, the lawlessness in universities is only 0.01% of general crime in public spaces - it is sub-due to crime in public spaces - which you do not have the political will to deal with. I am referring to drug trafficking and I will give a very characteristic example. At the moment, in the Striff Hill you're about to privatize, there's supposed to be police patrols and there's currently three drug mafia in front of the police, not because the police don't want to intervene, but obviously because the orders from the above are such and the private person will come and do the supposed regeneration and tell them to go a little further, not to deal with the crime. It's not just opposition to this bill and university police. The Federation of Police Officers itself reacts, which tells you that this is a sensitive space, a special space that needs special treatment and that you target the police officers. They're reacting to your own strains. And Mr Spiliotopoulos and Mr Souflias and Mr Antonar say that this is an unacceptable anti-democratic, unconstitutional bill. Nowhere in Europe, in any university in Europe, in Berlin, in Oxford, in Prague, has been heard of being in uniform even with light weapons. They also say that the arrangements are unacceptable, that you should invest spending and funds in research, in installations and in teaching staff. It's too little staff. You have reduced expenditure on recruitment by 13%, and 34% of the budget for education is currently occupied by the police.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u241	You have to finish slowly, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u242	I'll be done in seconds, Madam President. You are still told - Mr. Souflias said - that what you do reminds us of "He hurts head, cuts head" and that we are exposed to the international community. So I conclude by saying that all your members tell you is not because they suddenly became left. Right-wing liberals remain. But you're told, because you've become a side of darkness and extreme right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Christos Dimas has the floor now. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Madam President. I want us to think about how many Greek universities are in the top hundred universities in the world right now. According to the QS who has been doing this work for many years, in the top hundred universities in the world, there is not a single Greek university. At the top two hundred, though? Again, there is no Greek university. Not three hundred or four hundred! In order to find a Greek university, we have to go to the four hundred and seventy-seventh positions, where the National Metsovio Polytechnic is located along with the Karazin Canciv of Ukraine. You will, however, tell me that in the tables of this classification we will find mostly universities from countries which have a tradition in higher education. Yeah, that's the reality. However, I will tell you that we have eleven universities from Spain, up to four hundred and seventy-sevenths, eight from Belgium, five from Austria, five from Argentina, four from Portugal, three from Colombia, Indonesia, the Czech Republic, Pakistan, two from Iran, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Kazakhstan and Poland and one from Turkey, Uruguay, Peru, Lithuania, Egypt, the Philippines, Estonia and Belarus. My question, therefore, because I take the view that we all want the best for our universities, is this: are we satisfied with this performance of our country? The self-evident answer is 'No, we are not satisfied'. Do we want to try and change something to improve the ranking of universities in the country and to have a better higher education for the next generations? Obviously, we do. Are we going to do something about this? If we want to do something about it, then we are self-evidently voting on today's bill. If we do not want to do something and we are happy with this performance, then we are voting against it. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I would like to tell you, however, that we need to have an image of what criteria are being applied to such classifications. I read to you - and I shall put it to you in the Minutes - that, for the classifications of QS, data are obtained from a literature based on scientific publications on research activities developed by teachers and researchers from the evaluated universities. The international character of the Foundation and its reputation in the market are also taken into account, according to the view of more than forty thousand managers and managers of businesses and organizations, as well as in the academic area with the participation of more than eighty thousand academics. Five thousand five hundred universities from eighty countries were evaluated this year. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Christos Dimas presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is this image wrong with Greece? Of course she doesn't. I would like to say to you that we have excellent scientists and, in fact, according to data from the European Innovation Table - which I will also present in the Minutes - you will see that, firstly, Greece in relation to the European average has more higher education graduates. It's at 112%. But even in scientific publications between 10% and most of the references, we are about on the European average. We also find ourselves in international scientific co-productions quite high, close to the European average. So while we have the necessary scientific potential, which is highly competitive at global level, unfortunately it is not the same as our university institutions. And that's not happening clearly because of the way universities operate. What do we do, though, to change some of the universities? I would like to tell you that connecting universities and research centres with innovation and entrepreneurship is one of the government's main strategic priorities. That is why the General Secretariat of Research and Innovation was transferred from the structures of the Ministry of Education to the structures of the Ministry of Development and Investment. In fact, if we look back at the European Innovation Table, we will see that, unfortunately, Greece, while on the part of education it is on the European average, on the part of innovation, is considerably less than the other European countries. In patent applications we are only 40.3% on the European average, on research and development expenditure in the business sector we are also very low, but also on risk capital investment. One of the important initiatives we have taken in recent years in cooperation with the Ministry of Education's political leadership is to see how we can increase private investment, private spending on higher education, mostly in research centres. I would like to say that in relation to the money in the research centres of the General Secretariat of Research and Innovation. According to the 2017 National Documentation Centre, only 4.39% of the costs of the country's research centres came from private resources. When we have set this government and the previous government to increase research and development expenditure, not only by the state but also by the private sector, we must do something about it. Six months ago we legislated here in Parliament the exception from the Single Payroll of researchers participating in research programmes, which are financed exclusively from private resources or competitive European programmes, which applies to both research centres in the country and universities. Why did this reform take place? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] It happened very simply because we not only want to increase the wages we give researchers and they do not charge Greek taxpayers, but at the same time we want to keep our researchers in the country here. In fact, we want to repatriate some here, but also to encourage the research centres themselves to attract more costs than the private sector. I'm tabling this table in the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the table above, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Greek scientific community, however, also has great results. One of these important results stems from the emblematic action for the coronary, as we are at a time of a coronary pandemic, as the scientific community of the country with six research centres in the country and four universities united forces, so that we can have substantial results in the treatment of the coronary. And he did, within a short period of time, discover a coronary rapid detection test, the first Greek coronary rapid detection test. This proves that Greek scientists are globally competitive when needed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes, Mr. President. But to link research more effectively to the labour market, with innovation, we have taken some actions in consultation with the Ministry of Education. I want to refer to two important actions. Firstly, it is the revision of the institutional framework and the codification of legislation on the techno-blasters of research centres and universities. For the first time, there is a systematic codification of the legislation, and the procedures are simplified so that the LAG members and researchers can establish, operate, even close Technicians - spin off - far more easily than they are today. The second is for technology transfer offices. You realise that, if we want to convert research produced in the country into business ideas, there must be multi-powered technology transfer offices. Again, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, we are moving towards significant action through the NSRP to strengthen the universities and research centres of the country with the appropriate staff that can help in this effort. I kept for the end a personal story that obviously has to do with the care of universities. I want to tell you that when I was studying abroad - I had the luck of studying abroad and in Greece - I just completed my doctorate, a year later, I visited the university I had gone to and had finished my doctorate. There with great frustration I realized that I could no longer enter the places where I was going in the past many years. The first thought was that here I did my postgraduate degree, my doctorate, I taught, I worked no more I can't get into the university space. But I automatically realised that this was absolutely logical. I had nothing to do with being there. I was neither a student nor a teaching or administrative staff. And that's what we all want, we want the parents of the children and the families of the people who work in universities to be safe there, that no one who has no job is in universities, so they can create any misconduct. In universities, only those who have work to do should be strictly present: students, teaching staff and administrative staff. This bill is a success. It's a revolution of self-evident. That's all. Thank you very much and I invite you to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u245	Next speaker, Mr Maximos Sedetakis, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. The draft law that the Ministry of Education and Minister Niki Kerameos puts down another stereotype that has been tormenting Greek society for years. It is the stereotype that the tolerant of infringability wants to be considered progressive and conservative or retrospective to be the champion of eloquence and of compliance with laws and rules. Obviously this separation has no basis of logic and documentation. This is a distortion of reality. However, like any distortion, it did not occur at all. She was politically premeditated and targeted to drag political leaderships into the endless game of law enforcement. Universities were the perfect place. Every attempt to maintain order was contrary to the right to free movement of ideas. So a self-evident right became a case of breaking order. And the concept of order, which is the prerequisite for democracy and the free movement of ideas, has been distorted, ideologically charged with anti-digit messages. It became artificially synonymous with violence and repression in the years of dictatorship. The image of the tank to invade the Polytechnics cultivated the collective subconscious to enclose the academic space, to make the university asylum unbaptised, which no political leadership dared to eliminate, in fear of being accused of conservative, retrospective or even punitive. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has no such fear, because you know very well - and the world has also understood - that this is a mistake, a distortion of reality, for a stereotype. A government that wants to eliminate infraction and lawlessness in the Greek universities is deeply democratic. A government which does not accept the free movement of ideas to be transformed into an alibi for free movement of substances and everything else that minds is really progressive. The principle was made by the law on the abolition of university asylum, which is essentially about the restoration of university asylum, as Kyriakos Mitsotakis said at the time. The follow-up is coming with this bill. But, Minister, allow me, under the title of the bill, you say for the protection of academic freedom. For the reintroduction of academic freedom, you should have said, because we have become the most area of freedom that has become a place of freedom. Only in universities can you tell your opinion. And I honestly find no sense in staying unprotected students and academics, as well as public property, because under the protection regime and not under the fear of lawlessness and the self-interest of universities is protected and their autonomy is ensured and teaching is done and ideas moved freely. It is not a common sense that dictates another way. Nor does any logic dictate the existence of eternal students. And as it does not fit into any logic of having eternal students, because at some point the mathematical cycle closes, so in academic school there should be a beginning, middle and finally, finally. It also makes no sense that everyone should enter universities without any criteria, without any evaluation. The common sense says that there should be a minimum basis for introduction. There is no logic to justify the introduction of pupils to universities with grades '2' to '20', '3' to '20'. It is not reasonable that this way should help the students find their way and ensure their future. And surely it's not the reasonable way to reward the students who tried and succeeded. It is also a question of equal opportunities and equal opportunities. The level of academic studies is thus reduced. Even worse, this is how every sense of sovereignty is levelled, which we need as much as our society needs today. And since we are talking about opportunities, does it not make sense to give children other than higher education? Isn't it socially racist to underestimate and devaluate vocational training? What logic is it that dictates that social awareness is guaranteed only by graduation from a university and professional rehabilitation is not guaranteed by graduation from an IEK? How can the academic path be unilaterally supported and clearly devaluate the path of professional skills? Common sense says not everyone will have a university degree and children who will not have what they are? Second-class kids? We, our party does not make such divisions. We really believe in equal opportunities and want to provide them to all children. Our will is not theoretical, it has practical application. It has practical application to the possibility of submitting a parallel computerised form, because the student does not lose the opportunity to continue on a different path than the university if he fails to enter. It has practical application to limit the number of preference schools. Because it is not only that the student is forced to choose a school he really wishes, but that his desire will not deprive him of any other student whose school is not in the main priorities. These are common sense arrangements. This is a bill of common sense, and the citizens understand that. That's why they realize his necessity. That is why society accepts it in its overwhelming majority. That is why we too have a duty to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u247	Mrs Pulou Panayota has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society is faced not with one, but with two pandemics. These are two pandemics that evolve simultaneously and one is fuelling each other. The first is of course the pandemic of the coronary, which threatens the health and income of the citizens. The second and most dangerous is the pandemic of the disastrous policies of the Mitsotakis Government, which cares for the country's productive reconstruction and relieves it from a specialized scientific potential, essential to innovation and teleworking with this bill. It is a policy that threatens to deport and definitively dismantle those four pillars that supported the Greek family over time and helped her out of poverty and progress. I am thinking of private residence, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, public health and public education. The government is taking advantage of the health crisis and is being sawn with manoeuvre, it systematically undermines each of these four pillars. With the new Banking Code, banks and foreign funds put their hands in the popular private home. With the foreigners "opened" in the retail trade and in shops and businesses, without any serious planning, without any logic and with the absence of substantial financial support from the affected sectors, it has dispersed small and medium-sized enterprises and strips the country's production base into a few major interests. With the abandonment of the public health system, without personnel, without equipment, without infrastructure, it intends immediately after the end of the health crisis to deliver to the private interests the health of the Greek citizen. The pandemic is a little delaying its original plans. And now, with the Ministry of Education bill, he is targeting the basic lever of social mobility and rise, the institution that brought the Greek family out of tolerance, the public university. The government's doctrine is multi-speed education for a multi-speed society and deprives from thousands of young people the good of public and free university education. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Keramos asks the Greek parents: "But why do you want your children to study well? The university isn't for everyone. The less the better!' Better for who, though? But for the privileged, of course, that is, for those who represent with commitment from the Minister in the first place. The rest of them have two options: Or deprive them of university education and be taken to IEK, where they will receive training and not education, in order to practice tomorrow's professions which will serve the privileged or, if they have money, enrolled in private colleges, in colleges that Mr.Georgiadis passionately advertised in 2013, as senior public universities, in colleges that will now produce graduates with equal professional rights with the graduates of the universities, after he has already decided to legislate on the equivalence of diplomas, causing the reaction of the chambers and professional bodies. So to implement its project for a university of few and privileged people, the Minister starts this year with the blockade of 25% of candidates for admission to the HEIs. With the introduction of the minimum import base, one in four candidates will be left out and this will, of course, be for a start. Because who might know where the percentage of the excluded ones will be next or next years? The great losers of this arrangement will of course be students from low income families who cannot ensure intensive preparation for the introductory examinations at the IOI, as reduced posts will also evaporate competition. Moreover, in a much more difficult position to find candidates in summer high school and PAAL, since, in order to formulate the minimum import base, the material being examined will be the same in daily and estuary in general and professional high schools. No provision for adjusting the matter to the particular circumstances of PSAs and citrus fruits. But did we expect you, Minister, to see to it that these children of the lower god who are forced to work to complete their studies when the caste you represent is news that the majority of the Greek people are wage-serving? Do you know - and this is news, rather, for you - that with a salary of EUR 500 or EUR 1 000 or even EUR 1,500, Greek families are trying to meet their living needs and at the same time study their children, which you call 'eternal students'? In fact, it seems that it was not punishing enough for the government that this year's III school counts two school years of televising, away from school halls, the Kerameos and Pierracakis televised, that is, televised with uninterrupted functional problems in the connection, without the corresponding equipment, which, while you promised, you forgot, but also problems in the quality of teaching. No, that wasn't enough. This year's III high school, the most unfortunate scarlet of students in the last decades, has to deal not only with the pandemic, but also with the unprecedented injustice from the changes to the "and five" of Mrs Kerameos. However, the ingenuity of the Minister is not exhausted in the 25% cut-off. It shall continue with the removal of the measurement of the degree of dismissal. This development depreciates the dismissal, abolishes the autonomicity of the Third High School and converts it exclusively into a year of preparation. High school pedagogical mission goes for a walk. Finally, the blow that the university departments will face from these catastrophic arrangements will also be very heavy. The limitation of the number of students due to the minimum import base, as well as the introduction of the computerised form in two phases, will create two speed schools which will depreciate the district schools, after they will devastate them from students. The consequences on local economies will be dramatic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance. For example, in the Region of Central Greece, 62% of the departments are expected to suffer serious losses in the number of new entrant students, which will be fatally closed as unsustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the depreciation of higher education goes hand in hand - by strengthening the repression, to such an extent that we would suggest that the Minister should rename her Ministry of Education, Religious Affairs, Police and Repression. The first is Mr Chrysochoidis, the multi-practical minister, who is sticking everywhere, even in the citizens' homes, who is doing everything but the arrest of the convicted Horse and Poppa, who would applaud this change. Since I don't have time, I'm going to cut my speech a little, and I'm going to say that this crackdown you seek through your bill costs Greek taxpayers 30 million. The cut in this 2021 budget by 7.7% in tertiary education, that is by 20 million or by a list of Petsa, was not random. They seem to have had a plan on where and how to invest the cuts. Listen to it well, gentlemen of the government: no police are missing from the universities. There are infrastructures missing that you refuse to build. There's money missing that you cut off. Teachers are missing, which we have the least in Europe in proportion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u249	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u250	And because you will also be voting in favour of this class bill with the syndrome of the arrogance of the infallibility of the excellent ones that holds you, we assure you, firstly, that you will not manage to apply it and remain in your libraries to determine this rule and, secondly, that its abolition will be...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u251	Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u252	I shall conclude, Mr President. Allow me. It will therefore be the first priority of the progressive government, which will soon govern our country. Because, as Breech said, in the "Stories of Mr. Conner", to architects, "Should put your columns in such a way that people can easily tear them down", and what you legislate, Mrs. Minister and gentlemen of the government, is clear and easily demolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u253	Next speaker, Mr Dionysios Epipipe, from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me to mention, as I come from the birthplace of our national poet, that February 9 is a day of memory and a day of death for our national poet Dionysius Solomon and at the same time the World Day of Greek Language. It is of particular importance today, because it is linked to the historic anniversary of the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution of 1821, which inspired our national poet and inspired the revolutionary Greeks himself. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis remains faithful to the implementation of its commitments to the Greek people. Through the provisions of this article we seek to upgrade the level of study in higher education institutions, treat pathogens of decades, ensure a secure academic environment for our students and academics, ensure greater autonomy for our universities and make it easier for our children to turn to more targeted and more quality choices so that they enter with even more supplies and demands on the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is boldly and boldly taking on political responsibility and investing in the future of our children. We are recommending a grid of provisions which introduce deep areas into education, which will significantly strengthen and further enhance the comparative leadership of our universities in relation to other foreign universities. More specifically, the provisions of this draft law lay down the minimum import base with a view to upgrading academic conditions for admission to university and ensuring successful study and early completion of studies. Ladies and gentlemen, should we all ask ourselves, and especially the students and parents: do we want candidates to be introduced to higher education institutions with scores of 1, '2' to '20'? Does it not make sense next that these students will never succeed or become too late to complete their studies, so that they become too late in the labour market and have lost valuable and productive years? Is it not, therefore, a bad injustice for both our students and their parents, who, in most cases, finance their studies, that there are so high rates of eternal students, as well as students who never graduate? Just such pathogens come to heal this draft law, through a grid of provisions, which put an end to the problem of eternal students, which is plagued by Greek universities, while at the same time giving incentives to students who really want to complete their studies, within a reasonable period of time, who do not devaluate their degree. In this context, the provisions limiting the length of the course of study are also introduced. We must set a limit on the years of study, which is the case in most modern European countries. On the basis of the relevant provisions, special attention shall, of course, be paid to students who work, and to disabled students, or to health problems of the same or first degree of affinity. I now move on to the provisions of the bill which have stirred up a storm of reactions from Opposition and especially from Civic Opposition. The current draft law introduces, for the first time, substantial and effective measures to protect academic freedom and upgrade the academic environment. These measures concern first - firstly the controlled entry to universities. It is therefore planned for each university to apply a system of controlled access. The establishment of a group to protect university institutions, which will be subject to the Greek Police, is also envisaged. But there in the opposition you have the impression that you have found the right ground to act as a so-called opposition, reminiscent of the well-known and well-known arguments. You are seeking to convince your audience - what you have left - that the debate on the current draft law focuses on the struggle of always democratic and defender of the high ideas and values of the left place to prevail over the forces of the "bad" Conservation, which the current government is supposed to embodies. However, as has often been underlined by one of the most contagious figures in our country, Mrs Eleni Glyuctzi - Arveler, whose left-wing payments are known, is the left one who does left things, not the one who says he is left. Therefore, university asylum as a free movement of ideas is not enough to claim that it is defending it, but should also do the same. Today, there is a question which we all have to answer. Is the free movement of ideas at risk by someone? Do you think that today democracy in Greece is not solid and we must be afraid of something? No, gentlemen, the movement of ideas and freedom of opinion and expression is not at risk from those you mentioned. It is at risk from the well-known unfamiliar brawlers, drug dealers, smugglers and any walnut, which no one has to do with the university, but is using it as a forerunner. And ultimately the shame images we have seen and see in the universities how they will stop? Who's gonna do it? The people you're talking about, the university community, in other words, failed to protect it. So we have to bring calm, freedom and protection of teachers and students first with police supervision and, in the future, with a view to giving the university community a role. Ultimately, after four and a half years of governing SYRIZA, the image of the Greek universities remains the same and unchanging: continuous occupations of public buildings, deterioration of university equipment, break-ups of offices, invasions of teaching rooms and concerts, pre-conflicts and many more. Finally, if you do not agree with what we are saying, you have to tell us what your proposal is, you have to tell us how we will change this disgusting image of the universities. Unless, of course, you agree with the picture we are seeing today, so you must state it. But you may agree or even serve this picture, because you did not do anything for four and a half years to change it, and you do not even today propose anything different. In fact, in recent months, we have seen images of the attack and subsequent public permeation of the dean of the Athens University of Economics. Did you like that picture? These are images of shame, which cross our country internationally. These are incidents which we cannot allow them to be repeated. In conclusion, the state with this draft law gives tangible and substantial solutions to time-consuming problems. We're moving forward, we're listening to the pulse of society, and we're turning a page. We owe it to our academics, to the workers, to the Greek university. We owe it to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u255	Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Dimas left to tell him that I did indeed last year and last year I visited two European universities for my own reasons. I was not allowed to come in, but the police, the national police, were not here to tell me'stop, sir'. The university employees came with courtesy, not the national police, Mr. Dimas, absent, Minister, Mrs. Kerameus. And you know that, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has been inclined to rule for some time, but unfortunately, the only preliminary draft that it has is the logic of lockdown accordion and we will soon hear another accordion. Unfortunately, with disastrous consequences for our economy and our society, he is trying with every means of communication to convince himself that he is legislating for the future of the world and our people. But in reality, with the current governance of Mitsotakis, the economy has gone from growth to underdevelopment and to recession. Although work was in a relatively good situation, it was underestimated and today it is threatened daily to the worst. Health is in a generalised quarantine. The social state looks like a scoundrel. Tourism and the agri-food sector are at a dead end. Inequality grows. The vulnerable are weakened and younger people have as poorer burdens for the future. You're setting up the new client state of the right. Conservative overthrows of work, insurance, and trade union law are being carried out, which leads us to mathematically in a working jungle, in a grim future for the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, today's Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, in 2011 during the debate of n.4009 here in Parliament, started his speech referring to Nikos Themelis, who said "if we do not sit there, we will eat the stools behind the other". And Mr. Mitsotakis then continued: "I think that no sector of Greek life, social and public, has eaten more stools as a result of lack of understanding from the education sector, which, unfortunately, has been found over time in the cyclone of a hard inner-party confrontation." Finally, Mr Mitsotakis stressed that an important positive element of the then passed bill was that it gave much more flexibility to universities to regulate their homes. In particular, Mr Mitsotakis said at the time: "The self-interest of universities, in my opinion, is a myth. What self-interest is we talking about when every decision that the Greek university must take, whether it is large or small, must be approved by the Minister of Education?" I am tabling the relevant Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the self-employed was voted and I wonder: The arrangements currently introduced by his government's Minister for Education are in line with Mr Mitsotakis or within a decade and after ministerial and prime criminals have reviewed his views and perceptions at the time? Ladies and gentlemen, how else can one interpret the results in the education brought by one's government within nineteen months of running the place? I am referring to the excellent ones who are being reduced and those who are growing weak. We have the removal or reduction from the school program of basic cognitive objects from high school and high school, the reintroduction of old conservative logic, such as the indication of conduct in the dismissal that can mark the student and the further deterioration of vocational education. Don't tell me that there's something else in technical - vocational education with the main burden of giving it to vocational training and its undetermined connection to the labour market, with university education being downgraded, among other things, by providing for the participation of graduate colleges in ADP competitions - listen to me! - and the recruitment of teachers. Of course, with this bill - let me express it - it shatters the neoliberal band in the air, because otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, it can be described as unconstitutional arrangements brought by the Mitsotakis Government both through policing and by Disciplinary Law. As the universities, schools and departments do not apply internal regulations with strict penalties for members of the university community and for disciplinary misconduct. Are the penalties and bodies responsible for complying with the rules already in force not already regulated by Article 5 of Law 4009/2011? While the priority today should be the overall upgrade of the Greek public university, the government legislates with authoritarianism without dialogue, without consent by ignoring society and the stakeholders and having as its sole priority the short-term communication benefits. Education, ladies and gentlemen, is a top public asset and PASOK, our prolongation, supported and systematically strengthened it, opening up the road equally and fairly to all and to all, with serious reforms adapted to modern requirements. The Change Movement, as every time, so now, realizes that the end to lawlessness in tertiary education is a one-way street. That is why the Change Movement has tabled substantiated proposals relating to academic freedom and to the support and upgrading of the HEIs, integrated and modern proposals: First, we propose a national sanitation centre, as we consider it not to be a basis for introduction to the HEI without an upgraded general and professional high school, and of course with a theme bank for the three years of high school. Secondly, we are saying 'yes' to guard, but we are clearly saying 'no' to police rule. However, the government with every piece of legislation, unfortunately, shows that it does not have the slightest contact with this living reality because it does not understand or concern it that the small police departments, supposedly within the universities, are stepping up tensions within learning areas, creating serious risks among the people involved. We have proposed the establishment of a special guardianship with an autonomous organisational structure in each HR subject to the Rector authorities with specific objectives, competences and with the responsibility of notifying police authorities in case of unlawful actions. We also proposed the establishment of an academic identity for the entry and movement of students, teaching staff and administrative staff in the field of universities. The debate on universities, before we get to their guard, should start from funding and strengthening research and grants, the need for more rooms and logistical infrastructure, but also more ICPs, EDPS, EIB, researchers and administrative staff. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that instead of these, the Mitsotakis Government, which is supposedly cut off to upgrade study, in the budget of 2021, has cut EUR 30 million from university funding and has hired special guards to monitor the university community. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is essentially the confession of failure to plan and implement a progressive, reformative policy in the field of higher education. Full failure! Deep maintenance is the ideology that you embodies and those cloaks that you wear that does not change. It is now clear that the production of your policy, Mr President, does not have any serious scientific basis in the critical area of education. Unfortunately, however, it has disastrous consequences for the country because most of the problems we face would be the easiest solution if we gave education the value that it deserves and did not degrade it so by matching it with education without education. However, your ideological distortions, unfortunately, prevent you from realising that members of the university community, academics and students are an integral part of society and that is why you ignore their reactions when they do not serve the repressive plan that has nothing to do with the liberalism you are allegedly serving.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Mulkiotis, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, it must be remembered by the government that anyone who opposes the new generation is hosting the future of the country, unless this is not a matter of concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u259	The next speaker will be Mr Lazarus Tsavdaridis from New Democracy. Until Mr Tsavdaridis comes to Stepma, I would like to inform the House that on the basis of the time we have before us, calculated on the basis of the seven-minute period, we now consider that we can conclude the fifth circle of speakers, that is to say by the number sixty. We say this in order to inform the Members present and those who are listening to us or who may be in the aftermath, namely, in the sixth cycle, so that they do not have to wait, that is, tomorrow. So today we're gonna run out of the fifth cycle. Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, about a year and a half ago New Democracy was elected a self-government government by the Greek people with the mandate to move forward to all the reforms needed to bring the country into the new era, reforms which it has undertaken to implement with determination but also efficiency for the benefit of the citizens without hiding behind sterile excuses and no time-lag due to political costs. The bill we are debating today is another flagrant reform aimed at upgrading secondary education with the aim of a more autonomous, more modern and more innovative system of higher education that will fight at the root of pathogenesous decades. The first large package of reforms of the bill delineates the student's relationship with the university, not only by improving the quality of the studies provided, but also by extending the choice of new, parallel guidelines for the studies of our youth through vocational education and training. The academic conditions are streamlined, both for admission to university institutions through the minimum import base and for the timely completion of studies. Students are actually motivated in this direction, but a functional and fair framework for the definitive dismantling of the university community from the burdens of eternal education, which is, for its large majority, long-term, without, unfortunately, a student. The second large set of arrangements applies a mandatory system of controlled access to university cities and the establishment of University Institutions Protection Groups by guards with special training tailored to the specificities of the university area. At the same time, however, when the New Democracy Government dares to bring the mountain wind to our universities, the Left continues to live in its own virtual reality, ostracizing the will of society itself. A society that fully understands that in a modern university the basis for introduction to it cannot be much less than "10", professors being the work of violent behavior and threats from directed groupings, student homes being a man of lawlessness, the basilica dominating against class and the students remain eternally students. A society which 64% agrees with the policing of university spaces. Ladies and gentlemen, this demand for a homemade society in the service, but also in the aesthetics of our universities, for the promotion of knowledge they provide, for the expansion of their interconnection with the labour market, for safe access and living to our thousands of students, for the protection of academic freedom, for the provision of an integrated framework for Disciplinary Law for students, had to meet the extensive cross-party acceptance, not to be sedated and stirred by pluralism campaigns by those who have used to see the universities as shops for their ideological obsessions and incubators of a prestigious student movement serving their own party interests. Really, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you expect the Greek society to take you seriously, when you talk about junta, when, according to official figures from the National Higher Education Authority, a total of six hundred sixty-eight thousand students gathered the student's resolution, only eight thousand signatures and a total of seventeen hundred eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty staff, the teacher's resolution gathered just nine hundred signatures? And all of this while you in the years of your own governance left the universities with herdings to lawlessness and without all these days having gleaned even an alternative proposal for the protection of our universities, while your former Minister, Mr Mardas, has made you above - below - talking about incognizable police officers. You're supposed to be cutting yourself off for education, because that's how the left manual defines in the theory. In practice, however, you have had the lowest percentage of spending on education at a decade's level of EUR 4.6 billion, when in 2021, and in the midst of a pandemic, the budget for education in the New Democracy government reaches EUR 5.6 billion. Do you also have the courage to speak of a bill that puts so-called issues of democracy, when at the same time fondling disobedience to the laws and hypocritically closes the eye to the 'immi-pistrates' of the thirty-five years that threatened the Minister of Education, with Mr. Phil asking, 'How do you do that? Are you afraid of the paints?’, of course, according to the standards of his Chief, who did not see the molotovs. It's Mr. Friend himself who's almost here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u261	Please don't make personal reports. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u262	I shall reply later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u263	To answer that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u264	Please. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u265	I have a right to talk about things that have been said by the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u266	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u267	It is therefore Mr Friend who has almost today - very close to tearing over the Step of the House - grieving for the hatred of New Democracy for the poor strata of society, for the most hunted of life's difficulties. Gentlemen of the SYRIZA, your right to fantasize yourself as a Zoro of the wronged does not include our obligation to forget that in your days you have shown provocative tolerance to occupations of universities by anarchist elements, even willing to pay from the Ministry's budget, that is, money from the wild taxpayers over your days, the cost of restoring the damage they caused. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how obsessed the Left wants to keep the Greek universities in the freezer, no matter how strong a obsolete 'no' is, no matter how stubbornly he tries to baptize a social demand for the revolutionary exercise of a minimal minority of supporters, the jump in university education in the new era determined by the New Democracy Government will not be prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u268	Next speaker Mrs Theano Fotio from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is socially analgesic, anti-educational, anti-developmental. It hits the middle and weak strata of society and does something unthinkable, changes the conditions for admission to universities after two years of pandemic for at least 100 thousands of candidates and their families living in deficit education and an insecure life. Who dares to do that? No European country does. They're barely abolishing the exams. Your goal is to reduce those who enter the HEIs and those who are studying them. You exterminated psychologically and economically the candidates and their families. The aim is to reduce the student population drastically. That is what you want to achieve with two cuts, which of course have nothing to do with educational criteria. The first cutter is the base in the pan-Hellenic exams. This year one in three candidates won't enter the HEI or TEI because of this base. The reduction is scary. We used the data of the Greeks 2020, and the simulation showed that if this system had been implemented last year, it would have been out of the question of HEIs - twenty-five thousand in a total of seventy-five thousand students. Is it right to have the base? Is that a worthwhile criterion? You know very well - and you are hypocrites - that it is not worthy of sovereignty, because if the same candidate is given the themes of the past two years, one year is difficult and the other is easy, one will get over "10" or whatever basis the other will get down. You know that well, because you're hypocrites. The second 'cutter' concerns already students. It is the limit ‘n + 2’. If a student loses over two years, he's deleted. So a young man's life in his twenty-five years is ruined, instead of the state finding ways to strengthen and understand why this man is stalling and how he can strengthen him. With the two "cutters" you plan to close existing regional PII - to see what your MPs will say when these disasters occur in the regions that are elected - because it is allegedly the students who do not attend the courses and there is no demand for degrees. And that's false. Whole scientific disciplines have demand or not depending on jobs opened or removed occasionally. The degrees required in one country are not specified from opportunistic data. The reduction of the admissions and those studying in public HEIs is now affecting the development of the country in the future, which requires graduated high-trained graduates for teleworking, as it has become well known with pandemic and innovation, in particular, so that the production of Greece can be restructured and given added value. The pandemic has demonstrated worldwide that they are ready to respond to major changes in working and production patterns are the graduates of higher education. States are invited by the European Union to increase their graduates. EUROSTAT and ELSTAT show with the figures that graduates from universities have the lowest rates of unemployment and poverty. What exactly do you want? So why do you reduce the university student population? To send those who do not enter or lose their student status in colleges, to obtain customers in colleges. You are sponsors of colleges that in turn are your sponsors, as proved by election. This bill affects the middle and lower incomes of the family. It potentially affects over five hundred thousand households. Those who stay out of EHI or TEI are led to colleges to pay preoccupied diplomas of doubtful value. We hear the argument that the number of graduates is large. With the "cutters" Mitsotakis - Keramea, the number of graduates is not reduced. What is being reduced is the number of graduates who study for free and go to doubtful quality private colleges. Let us not forget that in these college degrees New Democracy gave professional rights the same as the universities that refused to give TEI. And colleges aren't rated. They don't have an import base. They are not ‘cutter’ ‘n + 2’. One is the criterion, who pays. You pass through the universities as a center of lawlessness to get the police into the universities, your academic addicts, and in subjection to violence. Individual convicted incidents become viral on television. They are repeated everywhere by your Members and they are shown as a day-to-day situation. You are the only government in the whole of Europe to blame the Greek universities, those throughout Europe, but also worldwide, enjoy enormous appreciation for both the level of their graduates and the high ranking they achieve. You, the MPs of the New Democracy, who are currently disgraceful about the Greek universities, know what they're going to say about classifying universities? Do you know what it's like to be in the first two hundred universities in thirty thousand worldwide? Do you know what it will be like to be at the first fifty universities in a total of three thousand three hundred Europeans? Do you understand what you're saying? What creates quality in universities? It's three factors. First, the level of students. You're accusing them of flying. The level of teachers. They're now, if they're... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be right over. The proportion of teachers and teachers. Mostly, however, it is expenditure on undergraduate, postgraduate and research. What does the government respond to these with the bill? Nothing. The government uses pandemic to pass laws affecting the university, the young generation, the Greek family, the development and the future of the country. Universities are living places of knowledge and research. They are places and workshops of democracy. They're not places of discipline and police rule. They're not places where you're manipulating the youth. This law, which refers to the relevant public law, is historically doomed. It will be expelled in practice, but also in the consciousness of the Greek people. It is a law from the past, sees the past and looks at the past and revives the darkest days of universities. We will defend the cultural right of our country's youth and we will abolish this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u270	The next speaker is Mr Panagis Cappatos from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education bill contains changes that should have taken place many years ago in higher education. This is now a common place for almost all Greek society. The bill we are discussing is not just a pre-election commitment from the New Democracy. It is part of a more comprehensive strategy, including legislative initiatives for all levels of education, but also for lifelong learning, vocational education and training of the workforce. The draft law we are debating today takes an important step towards strengthening the autonomy of universities and shaping the academic characteristics they choose. Universities will now be able to reconcile the conditions for admission of students to their schools. Changes in the way the computer is filled in two phases are also very important. In this way the candidates of the pan-Hellenic examinations will have a greater chance of choosing schools to which they will really want to study, and they will have a greater chance of studying at the place they want. In fact, there is an opportunity for our young people to have a second chance of being educated through access to public IEK. It is again - and quite rightly so - a maximum of students with reasonable exceptions so that universities have a sustainable number of students and a smooth range of graduates. Of course, the forecasts for university police were mainly concerned with the aim of dealing with systematic violence in universities. Apart from the extreme cases of violence, in the Greek universities there is a serious question of limiting freedom of speech and expression. We all know well in this Chamber that many institutions cannot be called to talk to university amphitheaters in our country and give their views freely without threatening their own physical integrity. A secure criterion of a democracy's quality is how free it feels to be expressed even the most unpopular of citizens' views. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the point of accepting fatalisticly a situation in which there are pessimism phenomena or voluntary desecration of views that are not pleasing to some noisy minorities for 'fairestness'. We accept universities where the destruction of the property of taxpayers, even the most extreme acts of violence, have absolutely no consequence and go unpunished on the grounds that 'it is always done'. We have been discussing the problem of security for at least thirty years, but without solutions. The tools that exist in the existing legislative framework for reasons that we all know are inactivated by the minorities of violence and of the bail. A society, however, cannot go any further like this. It's time for change. Unfortunately, public dialogue in the field of education has been rotating for decades around regional or symbolic issues, but it rarely touches the core of education for students and their lives, not only in student life, but also in their lives after the university. We avoid discussing the social role of the university. Universities are not factories producing formal qualifications. All over the world, universities are primarily an area of research and association of educational work with the needs of society and the economy. Greece is perhaps the only democratic country on the planet that is so self-evident is still subject to political controversy. Ladies and gentlemen, we must speak openly about the role of universities in modern societies. It's not the role that previous generations used to. Previously, the acquisition of a university degree was a'safe' passport for social and professional growth and development. This social mobility mechanism is no longer working as well. Even a postgraduate very often has no value in the labour market, while in new critical IT professions a university degree is not even a condition or a criterion for professional success. In a world that is changing rapidly, our country is unable to remain committed to the logic of Officerial Anti-Population, a logic of sterile complaint of any self-evident reform, a logic which is based on the fact that it is progressive, and in practice it is proved to be deeply conservative. Can we still discuss whether the execution of felony acts in practice will be dealt with in a different way within universities and in a different way outside universities? Civic Opposition gives back - to - to - back fights lost in advance, in terms of the 1980s. It cannot understand the changes that have already taken place around the world. The government, however, has committed itself to addressing the needs of society in 2021. Reforms in higher education are not only necessary, but must also be continuous, because we live in a world that is changing rapidly. Congratulations to the Minister for the draft law that has been drafted. The Greek society and the academic community need it, they waited for it and it's on your side. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. The next speaker is Mr Andreas Patsis from the New Democracy. Here, Mr Patsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will begin my position with a reversal of Mrs Fotio's speech, which described in this bill as deceptively 'Mitsotakis - Keramea bill'. This bill was a folk requirement, it was a requirement of Greek society, which was committed and implemented by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I have a particular sensitivity to the issues of education. The first reason is that I come from a family of teachers. My grandfather, grandfather and mother went to public schools and studied in public universities, but also served as teachers in public education. And my children follow the same pace, they studied in public schools, and even my firstborn son is already a public university professor. I, too, finished a public school and a public university and many of us colleagues, known from our students years, finished public schools and public universities and claimed through healthy competition, through a noble speech, a place in tomorrow for a better future. So, today, we cannot arrest cheap populism, invoking cheap feelings, in an attempt and attempt to create a distance from the government, to say that this bill is about supposedly elite, families or colleges. This bill concerns all those who are really interested in public quality education. The second reason why I am sensitive to the issue of education is my 'belief' that it is the foundation of democracy and it is necessary to maintain cohesion, identity and the prospect of our people and our nation, as well as the means of survival and the prospect in a particularly competitive environment. Three are the issues on which the opposition focuses its criticism on the government. Firstly, are the establishment of the University Police, ladies and gentlemen, are they police or are they protection? Why cut it and sew it as it suits us every time? Today and for many consecutive years we have seen images with the responsibility of political factions and students - because we must at some point take responsibility for our responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen - who are moving through the Greek universities and not only in Greek society, but also throughout the world - and I will freshen up your memory, although I do not believe this thing - where we know and especially strangers have transformed university institutions into a man of lawlessness, something that was not before, because the Roman student movement that Mrs Paparges invoked and knew through struggles, controversies, controversies and controversies, ensures normality in the functioning of university institutions. The images of imprisonment and violence against students and teachers, you're inclined to hang labels, it doesn't remind a university of people who really want a tomorrow in the university community. Let us not forget the violent ban on students and teachers entering the university amphitheaters. Who remembers only a short time ago when foreigners, putting a padlock on ASE, did they not allow students to enter, who wanted to attend the courses and who came from popular classes and strived for their parents - builders, workers, farmers - to bring them to the university and some people prevented the right to education? All of this does not reflect the image of a public university where the primary objective is knowledge, participation, development of ideas and freedom of speech, a phenomenon with tragic proportions, where real students, those who want to participate, are prevented from exercising their duties and achieving their goal, for which they have so much struggled to achieve them. So who are they terrorizing, Mrs. Kafantar? We have no right, and we are not worth talking about rule of law, leaving the churches of our knowledge unprotected and the students who are really thirsty for learning and fighting for their future. Finally, in lawlessness and indiscriminateness, it puts the Ministry of Education bill, which subsidizes knowledge, because the subsidy to knowledge means education at all levels. The degree of introduction to higher education institutions and the upgrading of studies in modern times, characterised by a particularly intense and competitive environment, requires a high level of knowledge, multi-dimensional and specialized, so that the young graduate can acquire a piece of perspective in the future. So far students consciously did not participate in the pan-Hellenic examinations to become genuine members of the university community, because they did not want it, and now it is time with this bill that the equivalence and merits prevail. The scientists of Greece must be equal to all the scientists of Europe in order to be able to claim the same qualifications. This is a change which, in fact, should actually be the case. You will allow me, Minister, to review the minimum base threshold so that it is indeed the '10' grade and not the mathematical equations down to '6,7'. I know that it will sound strict, but it is something that also raises the level of education. As far as the allegations are concerned, this bill does not allow many children to enter a public university and to be brought to private, the truth is exactly the opposite. You have so far led the good students, who have labored and lacked effort to succeed in the pan-Hellenics, to turn to private education, and that is because of the disparity that existed at the educational level of public universities. You are the pioneers of private individuals, while we are struggling to upgrade public education. People'sism, tactics and irresponsible suspicions really undermine the upgrading of public education. Is a university with eternal students modern and competitive? Why would a young man want to study if through the degree he does not seek to have a strong knowledge of the labour market for a better tomorrow? With the new arrangement introducing a curriculum limit, HEIs are decongested by eternal students and the graduation rate is improved. The bill also provides for students who work and clearly for disabled students. What, then, is the reason why a person who does not fall within a category requiring special treatment should not operate on the basis of its distinctive role, that is, the role of the actual student? If universities continue as they are, then the situation may be irreversible. This bill now comes to put an end to the curse of public higher education, and that of course takes time. At least we will leave a deposit to thank us in future the great minds of Greek scientists who represent our country with degrees from public Greek universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u274	Here comes the fourth circle of speakers. We're done with the third one. I'll invite Mr. Ilhan Ahmet to the Stepma from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago in the context of parliamentary scrutiny I tabled a question on the suspension of the practical exercise of students due to the measures relating to the coronary pandemic, a measure completely absurd, which keeps students and their families hostage. It is absurd why students' reception bodies, both in the public and in the private sectors, remain open and operate, of course with protection measures, throughout the pandemic. What does not work, of course, is the Greek university, unfortunately. That's where it's going remotely alone. In the context of this fact that does not favour substantial dialogue, you are today bringing to the vote a bill concerning it and putting them all to you, parents, students, teachers. After you have voluntarily failed your legislative intervention on university asylum with Law 4623/2019, which would solve the problem of violence and lawlessness at the AEIs, as you claimed, today you are again coming to solve the problem with more police and the constant presence of the police in the field of universities. The Change Movement, beyond ideologies and prejudices, acknowledging the security problem of universities, but also the violations that often hurt your image and their authority has tabled a comprehensive proposal for a law on this subject. This is a proposal for a law which recognises the self-sufficiency of the country's supreme institutions and trusts universities to ensure their safety and protection, while at the same time ensuring academic freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which, unfortunately, seems to be more interested in upgrading colleges and private IEKs than in upgrading the country's universities. You're reducing the number of admissions to universities. Approximately 30% of the candidates will stay out of higher education this year. That's what you're doing. And you do it as a "significant" the basis for introduction and asking the misleading "can a student who wrote "3" study at the university. " The answer is 'no, of course', but you too cannot, without any warning, change the way in which you enter universities today. Because all that we have been discussing is being implemented since this year, astonishing unpleasant students and parents, who have been trying to balance and get through what has been imposing pandemics. In reality, however, you do not care about the strengths of each university department, nor about the quality of students, but how many will stay outside universities and be fatal to the hug of colleges, at a huge cost for the Greek family. Fortunately you had the sensitivity not to remove the special categories of students, including the children of the Thrace minority. That is positive, Minister, and I recognize it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement is now tabling an amendment in a few months' time aimed at doubling the quota for the introduction of the students of the Thrace minority to the Greek universities. With a deep sense of responsibility, which the democratic party has shown over the institutional issues of minority and human rights over the years, we propose that the increase should be legitimised by 0.5% to 1% of the people of minority in our country's universities on the whole number of importers a year as overnumber and without being deprived of the position of any other candidate taking part in the pan-Hellenic exams in Greece. This is a positive distinction introduced for the first time in 1996 by George Papandreou and the PASOK government. Today we again come as a democratic party to invest in the educational future of the minority, bearing in mind the possibility of having our children access to the Greek universities. We are proud of these initiatives that break the shell of social exclusion and invest in a future of equal opportunities for all our fellow citizens. We invite you to accept it immediately, Minister. After all, it was once again the democratic party, PASOK, which was associated in the 1990s with the introduction of the direct election of the school revenues of the minority schools in Thrace by the institutions of the school community in each school unit. A democratic conquest of the PASOK for twenty-five years, which, all of a sudden, you are trying with foreign governmental decisions. I'll tell you what I mean, Minister. On 31 December 2020, the mandates of the elected bodies of the school revenues of the minority schools of Thrace, which, as you know, constitute decisive administrative bodies, as laid down in the relevant legislation. While this took place during winter holidays and the suspension of school facilities due to COVID, a minimum of time was given to submit the applications, resulting in the exclusion of dozens of interested parties for the procedure. In other words, in the middle of COVID you have declared the election procedures. As if that were not enough, successive extensions are given to the election notice - four to date - which are cancelled every time by newer directives issued by the Regional Director of East Macedonia and Thrace. However, representatives of these school revenues, without the legal renewal of their terms, cannot make any financial transactions with banks to finance their immediate needs and the authorisations of the regional manager are not recognised as legal documents. To this end, the school community of school tax pays asks for elections to be held immediately in compliance with all safety measures here and now. Or if you think that the elections should not take place in school inquiries, that the statement of the elections you made in December should be withdrawn and that the appointment of outgoing school tax should be renewed or extended so that there are no loopholes in the law. In any other case, we call on your Ministry to solve this institutional problem created by minority schools. Madam Minister, with all these thoughts on this bill, we will clearly vote against it at first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u276	The next speaker is Mr Xenophon Baraliacos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution of this bill demolishes the asylum of lawlessness in the Greek universities. It overthrows the timeless ideas about academic freedom that had been distorted by the deformative glasses of the Left that had transformed the foundations' environment into a pin. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that preceded today's vote on the bill highlighted in the most emphatic way the two conflicting worlds. On the one hand, the noisy minority, the one that motivates and tolerates the penetration of academics, collapsing, physical and verbal violence against teachers and pretexts, the destruction of public property, the occupations of schools, the lost examinations and the lost six months. On the other hand, the silent majority, which has long anticipated all these years for the prevalence of self-evidence. What is self-evident, ladies and gentlemen, on the left? Is it self-evident for anyone who wants to go into the institutions? Is it self-evident to see images of university spaces that are drowned in agalesthesia, trapped in abandonment and delivered to the decline? Does this picture of disgracefulness in our logic, freedom and aesthetic match the foundations of a European country? Is it self-evident that the surroundings of the buildings have been converted into outbreaks of criminal activity from drug trafficking to the manufacture of molotovs? Is that all for some people here in this Chamber as self-evident? Anyone who does not see the situation today in our universities denies reality itself. This is because lawlessness is not a discord, an isolated fact, but unfortunately it is a daily life. And some continue to deceive that building offices, emptying garbage on the teachers' heads, hanging sticks on beetles, images referring to other dark regimes, is an academic freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are shielding the right of every student, every academic citizen and every family to feel safe in an area intended for the free movement of ideas, the unobstructed development of arguments, and the exchange of views even intermittently opposing one another. In other words, we ensure that the legal order is applied outright, as it applies throughout the territory. So we guarantee freedom for all, not immunity from few. This is the true meaning of academic freedom. This is exactly how the academic environment will be upgraded overall and radically. Ladies and gentlemen, academic reform is not a part of the process, but faces a holistic and fundamental attitude to higher education. It is worth pointing out the areas of this bill in order not to be overshadowed by the noise of minorities who want nothing to change. Ladies and gentlemen, we are expressers of the entire academic community and do not express syndicate interests. We shield university autonomy and multiply students' choices. I would also like to stress the importance of reform for changing the way our young people are introduced into universities. A top choice in every man's life is now treated with greater sensitivity provides more flexibility and does not encroach on the potential student in false dilemmas, but equips him with alternatives without underestimating or trapping him in deadlocked solutions without perspective and without reflection. That is why we supported a few months ago the prospect of vocational and technical education which has the potential to develop rapidly in our country. The number of students who will eventually enter the universities will depend on factors such as the performance of all candidates in each field, as well as the minimum import base established by each university department. An important innovation in the bill is the possibility of submitting a parallel computer to enrol in a public training institute. Most institutions have already embraced these options. I am convinced that the provisions of this draft law on admission to higher education prescribe a hopeful future. I tell you this not in my capacity as a condolence MP but primarily as a father who experiences his daughter's agony and concerns as a candidate for the universal examinations for her admission to the Greek university. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this bill breaks the abscess of decades, corrects chronic pathogens and directs the academic environment to the challenges and prospects of the future. It is the top prerequisite for the recovery of Brain Drain, the return of scientific capital to our home country and the enhancement of the endless potential of the next generations. In the reform of education we have proved ourselves and in the fact that we are bold. The tyranny of minority groups is in the past. Our debt is only the future of the new Greeks and Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u278	Next speaker, Mr Philippos Loading from New Democracy. Mr. Alonite and Mr. Mellas will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill and with a central focus on evaluation, merit and security, a modern framework for university support is being established by the state as a whole. Higher education is also a national priority issue for the Mitsotakis Government, which insists on its objectives from the outset. So, what are these objectives? The universities offer strong prospects for social mobility to students, but also opportunities for scientific, research and academic development and their own potential. The support of these universities is multidimensional. What does that mean? Apart from the narrow logic of the whole funding, which clearly plays a dominant role, it is important that they be linked to the evaluation of their work. The Greek universities now form their own academic profile since they are decisive and their role in determining the student's basis for admission as a whole. So, what do we achieve? Firstly, import phenomena are being eliminated at universities with very low ratings. Secondly, the international authority of our country and of universities is being strengthened. Thirdly, all academic studies are being upgraded, while academic conditions for successful study and early completion of studies are being ensured. At this point, Minister, let me personally table a proposal on the issue of the minimum import base for students living on remote islands with a population of less than two thousand. On such islands in the Cyclades Prefecture, such as Amorgos, Anafis, Serifos, Kimolos, Folegandros and others, children do not have the infrastructure that exists in other regions of the country, even at the level of teaching staff. So I propose that the provisions of this bill should be applied proportionately for pupils from regions affected. In this way, and we motivate them to go to the highest level of education, we also reward them as a society for their choice to remain on their island, that is, in their place, despite the difficult circumstances. In Part II of the Bill, ladies and gentlemen, arrangements are made to ensure the physical integrity of students and teachers themselves and also of their visitors. Academic freedom is protected, but all legal goods are guaranteed against violations. Ladies and gentlemen, vandalism is now commonplace, but also the cause of damage to the public property of universities and, in general, the great inconsistency in these areas. How many times have we not witnessed phenomena, where university spaces have become anti-semitists, as well as segregational phenomena that are taking place in our universities, while often there are cases of violations even among the students themselves? But whether the free movement of ideas in the university field is guaranteed, when there is no hindrance to the inconsistent behaviour of minorities and to forms of infraction, such as occupation and vandalism? Unfortunately there is one, I would say, drunken addiction of many to acceptance, fatalisticly, as a normality of compulsion to violence or the acceptance of phenomena of infraction in an area that primarily represents the free movement of ideas. You yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, cover these conducts with your attitude and with this bill. Our times require a change of view, but also an understanding of other broadened and far beyond the narrow limits. The Group for the Protection of Universities, i.e. the IPO, comes to contribute to the abolition of lawlessness, prevents and tackles criminal offences in cooperation with the Republican authorities at all times. However, in order to prevent all of you who are also invoking democracy, all of you who are often supported by serial killers and terrorists, with this group being able to prevent any forms of violation in the field of universities, that is to say the case in most of Europe's universities. In addition, there is provision for the Disciplinary Code of Students. And rightly so, because students who are illegal must be treated, like all the citizens of this society, and the consequences of their own actions too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. I now come to Article 34, which refers to the famous "n + 2" for the four-year courses and "n + 3" for the 5-year or six-year courses for newcomers. This was a constant and time-consuming request of our own liberal party and the university spaces. I myself served this space myself in my student years. It aims to improve graduation, speed up, I would say, the integration of human resources into the labour market - something very important - thirdly, the upgrading of study and fourthly, the rationalisation of education. And as a response to all of you who are unsuccessful, social, I would say, there is a more specific provision in the provisions of Article 34 for those who have serious grounds for delaying completion of studies. We are not, therefore, with those who have studied, but with those who face and love their own studies, but have various problems and very serious problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the Greek university to get away from the collective logic of the past and invest in excellence, but not moderate. Now is our moment of constructive action and not of barren reaction. This innovative bill deals with chronic pathogens and the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis makes its own commitments in another area. The minority response to all of this is the demonstrations without any respect for public health. They are demonstrations that are guided by those who are obviously not at ease from what they are losing, from the years of acquiredness. Only those acquired who fight for all the demonstrations tomorrow are lawlessness in the altar of free movement of ideas, eternal students.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u280	Mr. Loading, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u281	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. The answer to all this will eventually give it to practice and the majority of students, but also the teachers and society as a whole, who not only react to the reforms, but of course know that only through them is the area of education being evolving and that the Greek universities will also achieve their own promotion in international competition. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u282	The next speaker is Mr Alexander Aylonite from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President. You New Democracy MPs have finished it! You finished it at the level of the confiscation of universities. All of us and you, or at least most of the Greek universities, have come out. It's impressive the way you show it. And that's not all that's done, but you blame our side for supporting killers too. We don't support killers. We support the killer's right. The right! That takes a lot of thought to realize. But it seems you don't have it. It is shameful to legislate such legislation in the midst of a pandemic and to say hypocritically that those who protest, protesting about what is going on, are in fact illegal, at this time the Prime Minister talks about a new lockdown. Four decades you are trying to strike at individual and collective freedoms in society and in universities. You do it in the middle of a pandemic and issue police provisions in force - watch the phrase! - They've taken down the territory. But isn't it a shame? It's not cowardice policy? Remember: History will punish you. Society, the people will punish you for this constant rape of its conquests, the rape of the university community and of individual and collective freedoms. He'll punish you, because you're political cowards. Legitate with the world feared by pandemic, feared by poverty and economic impoverishment. If he bears you, legislate with the world and our students free and within the universities. If he bears you, legislate without "good" media, legislate without a tie to journalists so that Ikaria's videos showing our completely careless Prime Minister, Mrs Bakoyannis, thinks she should be placed under permanent support and protection. This is a disgrace of arguments and an insult to the country's Prime Minister. Prime Minister in permanent custody? That is what we call 'coordination of court' in law. In your days you have finally legislated the state, you have limited the protests and marches, you limit the strikes and you impose a working middle ages, you control and "feed" the media and you order journalists to play whatever you want. What shame, really, for our democracy? You are issuing police provisions - in force, I repeat, once and for all - of the logic of 'Decision and order'. Let me not mention other constitutional and authoritarian legislations. And today you come to dismantle the university community where we grew up, all of you grew up. You have adopted the abolition of university asylum some time ago. And you want today, despite the abolition of university asylum, to settle in the police campus! We have been told by colleagues. This is the way the junta had installed in black years - my fellow Members, I think, too, Mr Philis - the 'Standard of Security' of the gentlemen - will remind them of them - Carapaggiotis, Kalyvas, Smali and Kravvaritis. Gentlemen! Anyway!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u284	Others talk about the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u285	Please don't shout!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u286	He was supervising the class at the universities. But what was the difference? The junta had not established the "Standard". You legislate. And you're doing this with the "Blue" of the Greek Parliament! Let me remind you once again that wood, persecution and torture to the democrat students did not prevent the legal events or the revolt of the Polytechnic. You're forgetting about this! Nowhere in the world - but, nowhere in the world, it is called too many - even in the most barbaric dictatorships, there is no university police! There isn't! Tell me one!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u287	To Canada in America.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u288	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u289	Nowhere in the world means academic freedom, critical knowledge, free movement of ideas under police supervision! You do not have the political instinct and criterion of Constantine Karamanlis, which has just been elected in 1974, after three months he abolished it. And in 2021 you decide to set up the famous 'university Police'. It is not enough that the police can now enter without the approval of the Republican authorities after the abolition of university asylum. You want to install her in the university. Really, does the establishment of the University Police is required to maintain university peace alone? Is that what you're pursuing? But you have already introduced this with the abolition of university asylum! And I call it the third time in here! And if all the dean authorities, ladies and gentlemen, do not accept your police within the university, what are you going to do? I'll tell you something that impressed me. You gave Mr. Plori the right to defend your position on the objection of unconstitutionality! And be careful, it systematically concealed - and here there are many lawyers - Article 105 of the Constitution, saying that we apply the same system that is on Mount Athos, while Article 105 of the Constitution provides for the presence of police to ensure order and peace within Mount Athos!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u290	That's self-evident! He didn't hide it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u291	It's not self-evident, my dear fellow Member. Will universities be evaluated by whether they'll accept the police or the learning, their educational work? It is an important question to answer. So you want what Chrysohoid is trying to do? To your god! I really can't understand it. I'm a post-multiple era. Do you want our educational institutions to be penitentiary? So what happens in prisons do you want to do it in our university institutions? Is that possible in the year 2021?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u292	You're not listening to society!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u293	Calm down, calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u294	Why are you shouting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u295	Let the speaker speak, please! Would you like to be interrupted?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u296	I call that, Mrs New Democracy's dear colleague, freedom, police sovereignty, opacity! This is your government's trio!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u297	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u298	I have a lot to say, but unfortunately the time has passed, because I have been drawn from my passion to defend the truth and even the constitutional truth, which you have been supporting some time ago by modifying the constitution and setting up with the 'counse' - I say it for the second time - in the universities we have all studied, the police! And we're not ashamed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u299	The next speaker is Mr Mellas. Mr. Kelles, Mr. Bartzokas and Mr. Zouraris will be followed. Here, Mr. Mela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. We are putting order - the colleague left, cannot afford to hear - you put molotovs, criminals, ballads. We live in democracy. I say this because we have heard an unreasonable reason before. We don't live in the junta, there's no Papadopoulos, there's no Alexis Panagulis and Koufantinas is the killer. Justice has decided on this. Let's go to ours. We are living at a time when we are all making sacrifices to protect public health. We are living at a time when entrepreneurs, workers in the field of catering or retailing work with openness - close, with delivery, with click away, with clack inside, i.e. in ways that they were not prepared for, but managed very quickly to adapt. We are living at a time when thousands of private workers are having trouble. We are all trying and fighting to adapt to the new conditions and restrict ourselves to the protection of public health. Everybody? Unfortunately, not everyone! At the same time as the majority of Greek society makes sacrifices for the protection of public health, some put their ideological mark above every measure against pandemic. At the same time as for hundreds of thousands of citizens, entrepreneurs, workers are being tested and their incomes limited, some are organizing pan-educational gatherings, including Members who are currently in the Chamber, but also former government ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u301	What do you mean? Who do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u302	You know very well, Mr. Friend, who I mean. You know. I mean you. I'm saying it because you have the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u303	Good. I'm asking to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u304	On the one hand, you move the finger to manage the pandemic and its economic consequences, while on the other, the youth of SYRIZA with the blessings of your own participates in rallyings in the middle of this critical situation for the country, as if nothing has happened! What demands? With the request 'No to University Police', 'No to disciplinary boards', 'No to reduce admissionees'. So you're protesting against the university police. In other words, you do not want those who enter and those who come to university institutions and those who do not have the spaces of the universities to stop the phenomena of lawlessness and indiscriminateness and to stop the Greek taxpayers from paying for the catastrophes caused by your children and your "similars"! You are protesting against disciplinary boards. In other words, when a student violates the rules of good practice of university and academic life, it must not have consequences. He should not be penalised, as is the case in all areas of life. You are also protesting against the reduction of importers. Lie! In fact, you are protesting against the minimum import base, a measure that upgrades the Greek public university. When students are introduced, for example, with three thousand hundred and twenty-five molecules in the Mathematician of Samos, it means that in the pan-Hellenics they have written in the best case "5". So it is unfair for the department itself and for the academics of the department, but also for the students themselves, who will probably not be able to graduate, to enter this data into higher education. In fact, official evidence shows that 50% of importers who are imported below ‘7’ are never able to graduate! So this is the picture of the public universities we want? Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law on the upgrading of higher education is not just a pre-election commitment of the New Democracy, which is now coming into practice. It is an essential reform that follows on from our previous initiatives. Let me remind you that in August 2019 we voted to restore university asylum. But what do we come and do with this bill? We are setting a new framework for introduction to higher education with the minimum basis for introduction. The minimum import base will be provided for each school and department. It is also foreseen that the computer will be deposited by the candidates in two phases. A student ceiling is set to bring an end to the phenomenon of eternal students. There is even provision for part-time education for those who work. As far as safety within and outside universities is concerned, structural changes are finally taking place. A mandatory system of controlled access will be applied to each HEI. Academic institutions protection teams are also recommended, managed by Greek police personnel and special guards. They will receive special education and be subject to the Ministry of Civil Protection and in cooperation with the competent rector authorities they will be responsible for preventing and dealing with infringements. What are we going to do with these regulations? We are upgrading the quality of the education provided. We are strengthening the autonomy of universities. We guarantee academic freedom. Students, teachers, workers and university visitors will feel and be safe. Universities will be exclusively areas for the development of ideas, progress, creativity and innovation. It will not be spaces of protection of arrogance and of any illegal and violating behaviour. We therefore lay the foundations for a modern competitive public university which can now meet the demands and challenges of our time. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall close with one thought. In all these bold and substantial reforms, the opposition responds with refusal. Only one 'no' to everything, without any arguments, without proposals to actually satisfy not those who voted for you, but only the narrow core of your party, that 3%, 4%. Are you really going to tell us why you say 'no' to the overall upgrade of public universities? Why do you say 'no' at the end of the phenomenon of eternal students? Why do you say 'no' to improving the quality of the education provided by the Greek universities to compete with those of abroad? Why do you say 'no' at the end of violence and lawlessness at universities? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] You have been accusing us for years of trying to increase inequalities and lead tertiary education to privatization. But well, by increasing security for students and teachers, by reducing eternal students and improving the quality of the studies of HEIs, do you think that we are strengthening or weakening the Greek university? The time has finally come for you to do your self-criticism. Are you the ones who turn off the eye in colleges and in private education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Mela.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u307	I didn't hear anything about personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u308	On staff, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u309	It's probably in the switch. Here you go, Mr. Philly, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u310	Several Members of the New Democracy - the latter in a very strong way - have referred to me and other Members of the Radical Left Coalition - a progressive Alliance accusing us of participating in gatherings and undermining institutions and democracy. I would like to make them clear that we are here in Parliament with a mandate from the Greek people: the defence of democracy, an opposition with a programme that prevents the disaster and the education that the government is trying to do. We are not neo-democratic. We are SYRIZA Members - Progressive Alliance. So face our developments and our behavior. I'm trying to be as calm as I can. I will not respond to the various outrages, in a culture that reminds me of the fate of the '60s by many colleagues who spoke earlier. They're characterized by this behavior. ETA in the House today. That's it. Secondly, I would like to make an appeal. I heard the letter from the Prime Minister. We're entering lockdown until February 28th.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u311	But that's not on the staff. Don't worry about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u312	I'll tell you right away. I would like the meeting to take into account this terrible development, unfavourable development. The climate developed by the New Democracy colleagues is a climate of division, a civil war climate. We do not go on like this in general, especially when we have a lockdown up. To rethink the government to stop this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u313	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u315	Here you go, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u316	I'm really gonna do thirty seconds, ladies and gentlemen. At a time when we are discussing all this, we have had the message of the Prime Minister, Mr President, and I cannot go into that. You know, the admission of the Prime Minister's governmental incapacity is evidenced by the repetition of horizontal bans on economic and social life. But while the Prime Minister bans traffic and activity in Attica, the New Democracy Government continues to demand traffic charges. Unbelievable! The Prime Minister again damages his today's complaint and his decision to reinstate 3 billion euros for February. It does not matter for professionals, it does not care for the long-term unemployed, it does not care for the workers. Mr President, it is not possible to apply the same wrong tactics and actions and to expect different results. It's not possible. The Greek Solution has submitted a comprehensive plan for the treatment of pandemic with the protection of economic and social life, with uninterrupted economic activity, by carrying out continuous mass free tests, with the supply of medicines to patients, so that the ESS can be decongested if you like. That's really the only hope. We really regret the Prime Minister's tragic proclamation today. It's in daylight developments. It's a good bill, but outside life goes on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u318	I didn't hear your name anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u319	You weren't here, Mr. President. If I may, because there was a report and because you gave the floor to the equality of arms...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u320	When I wasn't here, Mr. Melas was talking about what I don't think he said about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u321	Allow me a minute and if you consider that you should not give me the floor, please do not give it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u322	If you tell me that Mr. Friend said something, I didn't hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u323	Not for Mr. Friend. Mr President, I want to say a report Mr. Bernardakis made on my face.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u324	Please. You're putting me in a very difficult position. You both do it tactically now. You saw me upstairs and said "he is friendly, he will leave us". Mr Brutsis should normally speak the parliamentary representative. That's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Friend is not a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u326	You have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u327	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u328	To respect Mr. Kelles, who's waiting to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Kelles, wait a minute. You'll forgive me. Mr Vernardakis referred to my face and, more generally, to some Members of the New Democracy, that we are talking about the Anti-Population Officer, etc. In particular, he used and submitted a document in the Minutes. In my personal view, but as everyone who sees it will see and see, it is really about distorting the truth. And I'm explaining. So he said that we come and legislate based on four incidents, from the moment the asylum law was passed up to today. In fact, he said that there are also two hundred six incidents which do not concern infraction within the university, but outside. This is completely false and it turns out not by other evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u330	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u331	And don't ask me, Mr. Friend, and you're where we found it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Philly, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u333	It is also a fact that Mr. Vernardakis also submitted and says that "two and six interventions were confirmed at the premises of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki within and around it". The distortion that is being attempted in this Chamber from the point of view of Officerial Opposition is a proverb, not to say immoral. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no. I will give the floor to Larissaios Kelles from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u337	It's not possible on a subject that was raised this morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u338	Please, Mr. Philly! What you said was what you said!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on higher education and the protection of academic freedom, which we are discussing today, is a key point in the history of the Greek academy, from which we must draw all its good elements, in other words by ensuring that the provisions made by the universities of the country are applied more competitively. It's a bill in line with our election commitments. As far as the procedure for the introduction of candidates is concerned, I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that it provides an honour for candidates, teachers, departments and sciences taught in them, to form an import base of ‘3’, ‘0,6’ or ‘1’ in ‘20’. Such performance is not enough to advance from class to class, how much more so to enter university. The pan-Hellenic examinations are inconsistent, but the only examinations in which there are only successful have been made worldwide. The draft law we are discussing today changes. We establish the minimum import base, which will in fact be flexible and which will be determined by each section as a percentage of the average of the candidates' performance over all four lessons in the field of science. At the same time, the sections will be able to set the desired weighting factors in the pan-Hellenic examination courses to determine the ratings of the candidates. In this way, both the competitiveness of the departments and their freedom, i.e. their self-government, are being strengthened. I'm returning to the import procedures. Our election commitment was to strengthen vocational education, which we will link to the labour market. By voting for the two-month bill on strengthening vocational education and training, we give young people the opportunity to choose. Alongside their computerized introduction to higher education, candidates will be able to complete another computer which can lead them to public IEK. So, with the depreciation of the bases, we are ending and upgrading vocational training and the technical professions we are achieving. Further, we eliminate the phenomenon of eternal students. The "four plus two" and "five plus three" are sufficient time to finish their studies, taking into account that the bill provides for the doubling of study time for students, special care for students who themselves or members of their family have a health problem, as well as the possibility of ending study for two years. These arrangements are reasonable, which are treated positively by the large social majority. Similarly, the vast majority of citizens want security in universities and defence of the asylum of ideas, fighting for lawlessness. The first and major step has been taken. Since the beginning of its term of office, the Government has restored the true concept of asylum, that is to say the free movement of ideas and not of asylum, violation and crime, allowing the police to enter academic areas in order to suppress criminal offences. But is that enough? Nowhere in the world, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the case for criminals to settle in academic establishments and outside universities to enter undisturbed, beating teachers and destroying public property. The images of shame of the dean of the Athens University of Economics or even before, of the current State Secretary of Education, Mr. Syrigos, are fresh, which only honour the Greek universities. What's got to be done? I hear various debates, I read opinions and thoughts. First of all, we need to check the entrance to the universities. The bill, therefore, provides for fence, technical means of supervision of academic spaces, controlled entry for students, teachers and administrative staff, as well as a disciplinary framework. I don't think anyone would argue with that? These predictions make up a powerful grid of protection, indeed. At the same time, a special group on the protection of university institutions has to eliminate the illegal elements from the universities. All the universities? In what is necessary, such as the University of Athens, such as the Metsovio Polytechnic, such as the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, perhaps the University of Patras. For how long? As long as necessary. Does the University of Thessaly need it? Oh, no. Do you need to go to the University of Crete? Oh, no. At the University of Ioannina does it need? Oh, no. We hear criticism, mostly on the left: But police at the universities? Which university in the world is there? Is there any in the French universities? Is he in Sorbonne? Is it in Oxford? Is there any in German universities? Is she at the University of Berlin? I don't know if those people who say that have been through any of these universities. But because I've been through one of these, I can transfer my personal experience. And I ask: have there ever been vandalism scenes in Sorbonne? Have teachers ever been built in the university by students in Oxford? Have university assets been destroyed by students in Berlin?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u340	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u341	Of course not! We, too, need to allow the academic community and the students to breathe and create without fear, with a sense of security and peace. That's exactly what the bill serves, nothing more, nothing less. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the majority of Greek university students and students want to be classed in the universities, but they are afraid to say so publicly and those who dare to say so are disapproved, exaggerated or beaten. Unless, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you like these images! Because today we see by a letter published by your SYRIZA's "Philosopher" Member, former Minister of State of SYRIZA, other members of the SYRIZA's protagonist, being in favour of the archaeologist of "17 November", asking the President of the Republic to intervene in his favour, in order to apply - says - the rule of law. And the shame was embarrassed that he heard it! Obviously, they are the same ones that motivate known strangers to attack me in my office the other day, on Saturday at noon, at twelve, destroying and terrorising. I would like to believe that, fortunately, it is a minimum minority of SYRIZA who support such acts, Mr Friend, and for whom you are certainly not proud either. Ladies and gentlemen, only in security conditions will the academic community further highlight its potential, thus further improving the competitiveness and position of the Greek universities. After all, the recent climbing of the EMCDDA in the eighteenth place of the world is a success that anticipates what will follow. This development also shows that much has changed for the better since the New Democracy government took over. For all this, I am voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u344	Again?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u345	You see the circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u346	He didn't say anything. Mr. Philly, the Parliamentary may speak, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u347	I'd like to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u348	Yeah, but this can't be a system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u349	It's true for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u350	No, it doesn't apply to everyone. I did the favor previously to both of you, because I gave the floor to you who told me it was on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Kelles tell us who the perpetrators are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Philly, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u353	They're the same ones that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Philly, the New Democracy cannot answer! Mr. Philly, please! Mr. Kelles, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u355	You must be ashamed to have your colleagues!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Kelles, please! Mr. Philie, go on! Mr. Philie, it will never happen again, that the parliamentarian comes to speak, raise his hand and speak. You're not gonna take the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u357	Aren't you annoying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u358	What am I supposed to be bothered about? What's Mr. Kelles doing in his office? He's talking about it. Everything bothers me here. Everything's bothering me if you want to know!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u359	You're president here. You're not a homicide!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u360	That's what I'm saying, I'm not a carnivor! So sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u361	Is the letter to the President of the Republic lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u362	Please, Mr. Kelles! Look where it came from now! Calm down! Mr Anastasios Bartzokas has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Imathia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 470]] Dear SYRIZA gentlemen, your society has passed over you, and your youth has passed over you. You're no longer fashionable. The sooner you understand it the better it will be for you, but even better for the country. Because, very well or badly, you have been designated as a Qualified Opposition this place and you are therefore due to understand it soon for the good of all of us. Honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on universities, which we are debating today, apart from common sense and even broad acceptance, is the bill 'here': to this end to the blind eyes and to the irresponsibility, as far as the denial and abduction of responsibilities are concerned, as far as the only way to exclude Greek universities from international standards, extroversion and discrimination, but above all, to this extent to the injustice which the Greek state systematically submits to our students, parents and all academics, depriving them of a modern legislative framework - compass. This deprivation is responsible for a level of higher education that is not worthy of their expectations either of the sacrifices they have made or of their potential. We must admit that the existing system of higher education systematically deceives the Greek society as much as it sounds tough, providing comprehensive and easy access to university schools, within which islands of excellence coexist with islands of parody and lawlessness. It fails to serve the purpose for which it exists, i.e. to function as a lever of social rise and advancement, especially for those who are not privileged, for those who want and work very hard to achieve, but unfortunately they did not have the luck on their part. This injustice and the failure of our manipulations, to have in the field of university education less than we deserve, but also less than we can, it is time to leave it behind. The bill we are discussing today seeks, after an outstanding 30-year-old reform in the academic landscape, which has never actually been implemented in practice, to return to page reforms that followed the path of "rave", to keep a society ensembled in the short and medium term. Let's be honest. If we are to support at this time that entering the university with points of introduction close to the unit is not problematic, we have a great problem of self-awareness. If we are to say that there is no link between the very low graduation number from PI and the low import rate, we have a great problem of understanding and understanding the environment that we are living in. Also, if we claim that 'eternal students' do not cost us anything, as was heard in the drafting committee, as they do not have the privileges of feeding, transporting and distributing books, we have a serious issue to see the great picture. At the time of making such simple arguments, we do not calculate the intangible cost of mentality that everyone must have a university paper which, unfortunately, will not have any impact. When we say that there is no cost to eternal students, that there is nothing wrong with universities operating as a multi-annual parking, we are wronging the entire academic community, because at the same time we are allowing the measurement of basic sizes of a university which is related to their ability, their assessment and the allocation of resources to them. For a few, then, we are unfair to the many and we are discrediting the efforts of the students and the hardship of their families. If we take on the political responsibility - and we in the New Democracy take it - the establishment of a minimum basis for introduction, set by each university, the new process of completing computers in two stages and the establishment of a maximum level of study in our universities must be our common objective and not another area of conflict, but a field of consensus and acceptance of this self-evident. We cannot continue to hide behind our fingers, systematically falsifying reality, as opposition does, for example, and for the phenomena of violence and lawlessness in universities. We have heard during the processing phase that the illegitimate incidents in our country's highest institutions are only marginal, that the channels, rather interactive, as they are commonly called by the Civic Anti-Civilization, reduce them to major media phenomena. In other words, here we still have a version of denial or even an apology for the reality of illegitimate phenomena, which many of us as students have experienced with our own eyes, phenomena where the logistical property of universities, their human capital, even human dignity itself, is at the mercy of invasion orders and unrepentant destructions. So we know well that the presence of police at the IOIs is a great insult to the symbols of the Officership and its ideals. But let her know that, however she seeks to maintain inertia, to fish for votes, hypnotizing her audience, the Greek university enters at last in a new era. So he'll come back to where he belongs, to students and students. From now on it will no longer be the privileged conflict site of the Left or the field of ideological hegemony. Even if some threaten the law before it is even voted on, this battle to return the Greek university to its owners will be given and won. In conclusion, 2021 is the year when we will celebrate the two hundred years of the Revolution for the independence of the Greek state. After a decade of great economic crisis, but also after the adventure of the pandemic, our country is called upon to make a great leap towards the future to cover all the lost time. So let us take this leap to education and do it with a broad consensus. Besides, demographic measurements prove that it is something that the Greek, mature society is seeking and approves. So to the extent that I am concerned with, I am aware of my political responsibility and of my debt to the new generation, I am voting in favour of this leap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr Bartzokas, for keeping time. And from New Democracy we will go to SYRIZA and Thessaloniki, to Mr. Konstantinos Zouri.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u365	My respects, Mr President. Who did you tell? Who did you tell? Buddhist and sinner, who have you told you? It's the N, 824, Ilias. Who did you say? Like a mouse. He reminded me of Royal Baskiner, my youth, Royal Baskiner, Article 12, Article 14 and 16. What are these things? First of all, my ministers and Ministers - Delmuzos, the founder of our common experimental, your father and mine - say, according to linguistic classification and classification, "Minister", but because my mom has taught me ways, but if you don't like "Minister", I will call you "Minister", as you like. So what's that? First of all, did you not think - perhaps you do not have that comfort with universities in it - what does it mean for children, young police officers, who will be five - six, in the big schools - five - fifteen, the plaque that young people will make before they begin to be beaten, the fuss inside - will they limit them to what they will do? Aren't you thinking about these bad police kids? He can't be in there all the time. We had appariteur muscles anyway when, however, they were appariteur, they had no armed masts. So there is one problem. Avoid putting in indictments. And even if you have one omission, put it in 14 or 16 somewhere. Will the dean have a variation suit and claws when he's with security, insurers, all these security situations and so on? I will tell you again my experience - because you have not been in the universities, Syrgyrgos has been in, but he has not had any workers, perhaps - for thirty years - that is, twenty-seven - 35% to 40% of workers who did not fall under the 'n + 2' of yours, this unnecessarily. For example, two couples came ten years later, because they had made the procreacion medicalement assistee, the childbirth that is being helped there when they don’t make it, and it seems that this baby does not always manage and makes three and four. One had four and the other had three. And the one man who was taken came ten years later, and they went on. The International Labour Office and the International Health Organisation have said that prolonged fatigue is not a disease, but is becoming a disease anymore. I saw my students coming from night shifts from "AEVA" for example or from "DURET THOMSON" and my poor little workers aged 23, 25, 27, 30 came and when I had breakfast my head fell out of tiredness. Fatigue is a disease, therefore, is not a special case. Then, since you know very well that it does not cost a penny to me, to you, to no one in the class and to the university a penny does not cost, as you say it, "eternal student". Be as long as he wants, since we've all legislated on lifelong learning. Lifelong learning is not a form for workers? What do you want with these "n+2" and the others? Leave the whole world alone, it doesn't bother us, nobody. Was I better or worse when I was teaching because I had some ten-five-year-old employees over? I've never had anything to do with it. You haven't been able to teach workers, that's it. What's this? I'm coming to the other thing. You said about equality. Now I remembered that your Prime Minister suddenly told Thessaloniki that it is not for equality - it says - because it is rather than nature, it is not normal, it is like that. Is that what he learned in "Calabia"? He mistaken the natural difference between state equality, which is a universal and founding demand for all the civilized societies since there has been a human being and burying his dead! What's this story? Equality is a state for granted, it is not by nature. But unequality or naturality, for which these sciences are now sociology that they all look about and do not have such a great deal of difference. Take this back to equality, because you cannot suddenly give the college-makers around and twenty-four thousand children this year, of all the statistics, can't get in. What do you want with that? If that is what you are saying, it must be the lowest score because of the constitutional equality and equality of citizens worldwide, and children who go to college must have the same. They had '3'. Did they have '10'? They've gone through and not depend on whether or not their parents have money and offspring. And so I come back to Ν. 824 of Iliad,'sincerely, Bujai', and of course 'what did you say?' Don't say it again. That's all. My Minister, Kyrameos, or Minister of State, Kyrameos, is a pyreneus, in my view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, too. The Minister has asked for the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, I would like to make a brief speech by listening to Mr Zurari. First of all, about 'eternal students'. Mr Zourari, let me point out that over 40% of our students are 'eternal'. And you're going to say, why is that a problem? I'll tell you why it's a problem. Because we're talking about an educational process, Mr. Zurari, and every educational process around the world has a start, a middle and a half. In your own logic, you could recommend a grade III student to be a 15-year-old high school student or a 20-year-old student! It runs counter to every logic of the existence of an educational framework. Secondly, as long as this valuable human resource is an 'eternal student' without a framework, they are deprived of society, society, the labour market is deprived of this valuable potential. I would also like to ask you: why is this regulation not applicable elsewhere? Why is it in Oxford, which you mention so much, that we don't have students who are twenty or thirty years? Why? And one last. You do not want an import base - although your base seems to want it - but you want to impose an import base on foreign universities! I think we've heard it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u368	Thank you very much. The fourth circle of speakers is closed. Let's go to the fifth circle of speakers, and the curtain will be opened by Cardinals Mrs. Silina Skondra from New Democracy, followed by Mrs. Notopoulou and Mr. Bogdanos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, while continuing our reform work in education Niki Keramos presently introduces the fifth in a series of bills. It regulates issues of introduction to the HEIs, strengthening safety and academic freedom and the overall upgrading of the academic environment. The government within the framework of the commitments of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis is moving forward, with a comprehensive roadmap for improving all levels of education, leaving behind pathogenesis of years. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law deals with issues that are already successfully implemented in other developed states. I have heard the former Minister of Education of SYRIZA, Mr. Friend, attacking the government with courage, deliberately forfeiting even the history of the New Democracy. He said we're canceling the course of our resignation. He said that Constantine Karamanlis and our party participated in the post-Civilisation process. The Chief of State, gentlemen of Anti-Population, re-established the democratic state in Greece, modernised the entire political scene. On Sunday, August 11, '74, he took responsibility and said 'or tanks or me'. So before you put in your mouth the course of the National Warlord and our resignation to tell us: SYRIZA and his executives that day where they were and what they were saying, Mr. Friend? Are you talking about authoritarianism in the party that legitimised the Left in Greece? Do you judge a successful 40-year-old course, you who are still looking for a political identity? These inconveniences refer to the idea that you are either provokers or unscrupulous. You're talking about Hood ordinances, about freckles, about Orwell State. From what you said, you seem to have stayed in 1984. But society is moving fast. It disturbs you the prediction of recording systems that will operate in the spaces of the HEI when there is no lesson. Why? The legal person has nothing to fear. Only the outlaw. You probably don't want to record criminal acts of those who enter the halls and make glasses. Invoke a personal data item. What personal data? When committing criminal offences in a public area is such an issue? So you cover the violation of universities, giving an alibi to those who are allegedly struggling for ideals. However, these are marginal elements that pursue violence by intimidating and threatening everyone to impose their positions, assuming that their universities belong. That kind of public education you're evangelizing? To study children in vandal rooms? To pay for the damages? To live in fear of the safety and physical integrity of their children? Is that how you respect the Greek parent and taxpayer? Ladies and gentlemen, for the minimum import base, do you consider it reasonable to introduce students with a degree of '1' to '20'? Does our universities honor 30% of those admitted never graduate? Does it empower HEIs to graduate annually to 9%, when in Europe it graduates 24%? You are supposedly cut for public education. Do not strengthen the autonomy of the HEIs? Do they not have a more important role in shaping academic conditions for students to enter? Why do you disagree with the possibility of setting a minimum import base? Why don't you want schools to set the weight factor of molecules? The party baffles close your eyes in your eyeballs. But society sees them and applauds them. Children ensure a better quality of study. The chances are increasing to study what they want to do where they want to get an upgraded degree in the labour market. In universities, autonomy is strengthened, the quality of the education provided is improved, the validity of the institutions and their place in the international ranking is strengthened. And the vertical denial of counterpopulation continues. They disagree with the settings for the choices in computerised versions. That is to say, the distortions that exist today! Why do you disagree that candidates make specific and conscious choices? Since the candidates will also be introduced into the schools they really want to study and the posts will not be covered by random candidate choices depriving them of others and the need for the transcriptions will be reduced. By choosing a school, you choose on the substance and your profession. How will he be happy and how will someone who will be forced to practice a profession that has never had a good time? In the case of disagreements with the school limit, on the one hand, transitional provisions are laid down for current students, on the other hand, specific criteria are laid down for exceptions for those who have health grounds or other serious reasons. However, it is important to stop the phenomenon of 'eternal students'. I would like to hear a serious argument about who and what serves to be a student for twenty years. Does he serve the state? Society? The universities? His family? Or the same guy who loses his productive years? Two words on the safety of HEIs, Mr President, and I shall end, that is, the controlled access, the special protection team and the provisions of Disciplinary Law. What's university? Public park? Alanna? Drunk vine? You at your office, at your party, at your workplace, get anyone in any time and do whatever he wants? Is it not reasonable to have access to the institutions to those involved in this? Students, teachers, administrative staff and citizens who have some work to do. We believe that and we say it. If you want to continue the phenomena of lawlessness and violence in universities, say it directly. Say openly that you are associated with those who say: “We want to hide behind academic asylum. We have no place to make molotovs, because you kicked us out of the villas we'd figured out. Where are we hiding our bats and crabs? When we love each other, we want to build teachers, insult and intimidate pretexts." Ladies and gentlemen, who owns the public university? It belongs to the state, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, to all of us. And the majority of the Greeks want to put a definitive end to any illegal act carried out within the EITs. And we here today, at the command of the Greek people and with a deep democratic conscience, legislate on his will. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. Mrs Catherine Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA, from our Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to highlight the convenience of the New Democracy to lie so cynically to the Greek people. We're in the third wave of the pandemic. You bring in a new lockdown, the confession of the terrible failure that has cost the country thousands of lives, but also the collapse of the whole economy. Of course the footprint of your policy in the lives of Greek citizens is painful, but it is also macabre. For months, after all, they have been the experts who warn about the risk of opening up schools. We as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance have tabled a number of proposals for the safe opening of schools. We insisted on the dilution of the students and most of them. We insisted on hiring ten thousand five hundred teachers. We insisted on mandatory mass tests in the educational community. We insisted on a reliable tracking mechanism and additional cleaning staff recruitment. But you have ignored both the Opposition and the educational community and the experts and proceed to open up the schools without any plans at all. Today, then, we are again in a tragic deadlock. That's what you've done. You've created suffocating conditions of life. You're talking hard Lockdown. Four months now what are we? In a cavalry party? You have created suffocating living conditions for each family, for every worker, for every professional, for every unemployed person, for every student, for every teacher. Every day you play with every man's life, with his work, with his family, with the children. Students who have just taken a month and a half in classes are asked to face a new bill that really deprives them of the prospects for development and study, while at the same time you are playing with their psychology and you are literally marketing their future. In the whole of this situation, however, in all this disastrous policy, while trembling parents, trembling students, shaking academics, shaking the educational community, you legislate in the pandemic, not to bring solutions, but to literally dismantling the public university. You have found a first-class opportunity to legislate the most reactionary, the most anachronistic, the most anti-democratic, if you are able to save the reactions from your policy. You have restrictions on access to public universities. The project will not be introduced in 2021 by more than twenty-four students based on a favourable, positive scenario. With a more moderate scenario, you deprive about 50% of candidates of the right to access the public university. The introduction of the minimum import base, which is devoid of complete educational and academic logic, results in a reduction of more than 40% over last year. So bring in, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Members, a bill with a hard class mark. You are building a system of education that actually reproduces social inequality, the social origin of pupils, and social justice goes unequivocally through the public university and consists of equalising opportunities. What else could we wait for? It was Mr. Mitsotakis who said the pigeon only gets cooler. And it has always been Mr Mitsotakis who claimed that a society without inequality would be contrary to the very human nature. It is Mr. Mitsotakis and his Government who, without a trace of empathy, refuses to understand the real modern needs of the new generation. Do you know how many students were forced to stop their studies this year because they did not work in the summer? Do you know how many students who didn't even have internet access? Do you know how many students are invited to take trains daily or CAN to go to other cities, to cover their workshops, why cannot they cover the accommodation? Do you know how much effort Greek students and Greek students are making to finish the public university and serve their science, to look useful and worthy in their homeland and science? So what are you doing? You're reducing university funding. You're reducing students to university. Naturally, you increase the disciple’s leak. You are increasing the schooling in the middle of a pandemic and with such an economic collapse for the Greek family. Close and merge sections. You're completely canceling the high school education role. Seventeen of the twenty-four will have losses. About fifty cities lose students. Do you understand them? Do you collect what this will mean for local economies and local communities? Lead to universal Brain Drain, while actually making young and young, students and students private college clients, whom you have arranged to support, equating the professional rights of private colleges with public colleges. If you really wanted to support the public university, instead of getting a thousand three hundred special guards, you'd get a thousand three hundred academics, you'd put space on young researchers. To improve the ratio between students and academics, instead of increasing academics you reduce students. It's really inconceivable and scary. At the same time, of course, with your abortion, you want to strengthen the repression forces within the university, not for any other reason, but for your usual practice, to become all kinds of response to your policies. Whatever the question and the social need, you respond with the doctrine of 'terror and fight'. You only respond with repression: abolishing asylum, covering police violence and arbitrary action, the law on the control of demonstrations. And today you arrive to abolish your own self-determination by creating a university police controlled by the Greek Police, despite the overall reaction of all academic institutions and bodies. You are slandering Greek public universities over time. You're degrading their work. You hide their successes. You do not care for safety nor for smooth operation. All you bring is sub-financing and dissolution. You burrow the image of the Greek university. At particular cost, I dare refer to the tragic contraction that is being attempted towards the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, in which I have studied and declared my proud and grateful for this experience, which is in place two hundred and five between twelve thousand universities worldwide. While, of course, it is the blow you are bringing to the International University, which has emerged as a flagrant synergy of four academic institutions in the government of SYRIZA with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, who we have seen as a great university with a view to the future. You're doing all this because you're also trying to make it an opportunity to cover up your neoliberal obsessions. However, ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing down with this - the public university is not the distortions you have in mind. It's not the ideas. It's the same knowledge. It's science itself. It's freedom itself. It's a place of dialogue, questioning and cognitive overthrow. Today, then, you make a conscious choice, to dismantle the public university, to create armies of young unemployed people, to challenge the violence itself. Today you make a perfect choice, put young people and young people to you. Fear the free spirits. Fear the free citizens. Fear the new generation. And you do well to be afraid, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. You'll have us in front of you. We will be in front of every fight to defend academic freedom, to defend the public university, to defend democracy itself. You're doing very well to be afraid. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mrs. Notopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled to the Bureau in principle by the Communist Party of Greece, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Constantine Bogdanos has the floor from New Democracy and First Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the completely and totally literal sense of the verb, I am pleased to have the opportunity today to place myself in the debate on the bill, which is an essential part of the wider educational reform, which the government is seriously and responsibly implementing. And I really welcome this opportunity, because the attack that my wife and I have been in our home a few days ago by masquerading terrorists does not make this possible any self-evident. I therefore inform both the perpetrators and those who either systematically defend them or systematically do the wrong eyes in front of trabukism, that my car under which the first mechanism has been introduced is fuelled by natural gas. Good luck to have disconnected the gas supply. If I hadn't, then the explosion that would surely be caused is extremely likely to have human victims. Little evil, some may think, in front of the need for "revolutionary gymnastics". As long as we remember Thanos Axarlian, his listener killer, and those who are today, as the liberal democracy gives them the right to defend the rights of a serial killer who was not entitled to remove from his victims the right to life and those who are now on his side as supposedly rightmakers, which unfortunately means that the only rights for which they are cut are their rights. So this accident, the good coincidence that has allowed both parties, the left parties that I face here today - in the sense of being against each other - to make - I will take note of my words - a huge amount of announcements. Of course, SYRIZA did at least condemn the attack. And I am indifferent in this regard if he did so telegraphically, if he was led to this move because he has parked the benefit and the damage or for deeper reasons of principle. He did it, and I appreciate it. But the Communist Party of Greece did not do the same. Not only did it condemn the attack without asterisks - and I expect to see whether the JRC's colleagues with the courage to take an opinion that they usually see will do so today - but since tomorrow's attack they continued to target me with misguided designations that we know that they are now arming hands and for which every citizen would normally resort to justice. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, is not at all outside the subject of our meeting. On the contrary, the attitude of this particular area toward violence, in the enclaves of illegality, is making it necessary and absolutely imperative to defend the life, the honor, the property of all the members of the educational community in the universities and, above all, the universities based in my region, Athens: the Polytechnics, the Economics, the Panteion, the University of EMCDDA, the Law in Solon. The problem there is very acid. Because when you praise molotovs and occupations, when you rush every time, but every time you degrade the incidents of so-called political violence, but also rapes, beatings, thefts, drug trafficking, the destruction of public property of millions of euros, which have been happening for decades in the constituencies of the rector - because the dean says, I will call the police, and tomorrow my life is at risk - and I am very careful about my words - you are creating good ground for all of this. Like, to address my colleague, Mr Giokas, when the next day of the attack that I took, not only do you not condemn clearly, but you are rushing to describe me as a mole, then it is easy for some ill-brained people to take this attitude as equivalent to 'and a few of you did it'. With Mr. Gioka we are separated from the abyss. However, he and every communist, every left hand, who is hosted at the great table of liberal democracy, must understand and understand that there is no political violence in Parliament, but there is only criminal violence and whoever encourages it is a co-criminist of criminals. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of import and graduation time limit you do not have to argue in particular. It's a matter of course. Ensuring legality for some is not in universities. And I wish we hadn't needed to set up this particular police team. The need for her existence is no honor to any of us. For decades, however, the snake’s egg was incubated in the occupied school room with the tolerance and encouragement of many. And when against the existing incidents of rape, beatings, facilitation of teachers, thefts, the destruction of workshops and art works, the best that the Left - I remember Mr Garroglou here - was a fragile student movement, when for decades the Republican authorities have simply watched all this happen, then I am sorry, but this government, as it has to do, will take every appropriate measure to consolidate the rule of law and the universities. And here we must - and I am addressing the Collapsion, to the rivals and rivals of New Democracy in the difficult reform work undertaken by the government in extremely difficult conditions - the good principle that the government has done since its election after the abolition of the immunity of lawlessness, the liquidation of illegal occupations, the decisive abolition of the sanctuary found by the bazaars in the bases of the ASEE and the Polytechnic, must not be allowed to go on, because today also the conquests of buildings continue to exist in Athens and elsewhere and the demonstrations in the middle of a pandemic are carried on the total viral load and there are measures that might have been and could have been avoided and the outbreaks of lawlessness continue to exist. And what we saw today in the 'EPC - ICM', the day before Christos Kelles, MPs and MPs, one after another, shows that we can do better and we will do better. So the general rules - and I am very grateful - apply everywhere to everyone, to all, without exceptions, without asterisks, without discrimination, with the same rights and obligations. That requires that liberal democracy, and from this requirement, we do not have to move to the minimum either the universities or the streets or the squares, either in this sacred temple of democracy or in the neighborhoods of Athens or anywhere. Thank you for your attention. We are enthusiastically voting for another major and revolutionary reform of the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u375	Thank you very much, Mr Bogdano. Let's go back to Thessaloniki, Mr. Dimitrios Kouvela from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u377	You'll get them, even though you've been very sad at me in the morning. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u378	I would like, first of all, to note that Mr Bogdanos and those plus him are very well aware of the position and attitude of the JRC in all these issues of terrorism, in introductory forms or outside. As you wish, put it. We don't have a problem. Everyone knows - Mr. Syrigos, here you are - and everyone here that the Communist Party of Greece has never adopted such methods. And I've been saying such methods of atomic terrorism since the Communist Movement. And there was a clear, clear statement from the JRC about the condemnation of this action against Mr Bogdanou. At the same time, however, what do we say? That these are actions that feed - I will say it popular to understand the world - literally all those who want to enforce not law and order, but discipline of another kind, both in universities and everywhere. Secondly, because he complained about what Mr Giokas said to him, I will say it very simply and let people draw their conclusions. When a Member of the Greek Parliament in a conflict with the Police, which was unacceptable by the Police itself, - you cannot go to throwing chemicals into a world and in a world that has strollers with children and you cannot count as a terrorist whatever else when they strike a fallen protester down and someone attacks, so to say, in order to avoid this thing - when a MEP of the Greek Parliament comes out and officially denounces that this is the one that is the one that is the one that is studying there, which is that and that, then what some people have written: "What Bogdan what a rat."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u379	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u380	That's the reality. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u381	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u382	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u383	Yeah, but you'll have to answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u384	I'll answer that, too. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u385	I did. I caught you because I know you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u386	To answer. That's the way democracy is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u387	Here, Mr Bogdano, you have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u388	First of all, I am sad by Mr Pallis. I know that's what he wants to do, but it's something that doesn't bother me. I am disturbed by those who hear Mr. Paphie's descriptions of putting bombs out of my house and sending me threats to my life and integrity. I would remind Mr. Paphie that in 2012 the enthusiasts of the general perception of revolutionary alleged violence sent me to the CSD and I come today with temptation before the Greek Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u389	It wasn't the JRC's.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u390	...to denounce what I understand as an avata to those who want to take me out so as to end up listening to Mr. Palphie to confuse the party executive with the protester. No protester hit a man of MATs. Party official and candidate of the Communist Party of Greece hit a man of MATs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u391	Mr Bogdano and Mr Pafile, we are far from the point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u392	And if a Member of Parliament, Mr President, took the evidence of a random protester and gave it to the public, and I would agree, Mr Pafile, that this act - I will not say it a mock-up or a rat - is perhaps inconsistent with some unwritten rules of democracy. Do not, however, try to hide the partisan executives who have other than the ordinary quality of the citizen or student, as we all understand, behind a zipper or the dresses, if you like, of the Romance, as you understand, a movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u393	Thank you very much, Mr Bogdano.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Paphie, I repeat that your last sentence is too heavy. It is not only the Communist Party of Greece and its history, at least during the post-multiple period, but also the ones you are evoking it. I would ask you - and I close - to withdraw your last phrase and to conclude that, within our disagreement, at least, the lives and integrity of political and ideological opponents should not be threatened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u395	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u396	Here, for a minute and on Mr Bogdanou's request, if you will withdraw your last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Bogdano, you say that we are doing the "vada" to those who are colluded, who have been killed, who have burned us people, who have held the demonstrations up to not be dissolved. And you're telling us that we're doing "watch." For you? What do you think? Who do you think you are? The Great Napoleon?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u398	Don't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u399	Please, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u400	Who do you think you are? Because you were on TV and because you go to MATs and make hands on them, etc.Huh? What do you think you are? Who do you think you are? The great revolutionary, whom everyone wants to execute and make, and we give them an opportunity? What are the ridiculous things? Does the JRC give cause, when it has fought and ideological and practical - and you know it - to hit you? Is that what you think? Is that what you're telling us? I don't get anything back. On the contrary. With what you said, you confirm your role. Who made you look for who he is? Can I say something? We are not going to sit down and eat wood on the cold. Nor does every fighter have the right to strike unconsciously, as he does all these years, and now and now, the protesters and any people who want to protest. As far as this fact is concerned, 'haircuts'. Did we first put paint on Truman's statue? The protesters have always been thrown. What would happen? They'd be wiped out at night and end history. So you came out, the defender of the law, to interrogate, to find out who he was who pushed the fighter or hit him, the "caratecka", as you said, because he was hitting people who had fallen on the sidewalk because he was hitting old men and children. And you're talking on top?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u401	Are you defending it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u402	Finish it, Mr. Paphie. You've been through this. We're talking about the education bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u403	I'm done. As for the designation, you've been given all over the social media and elsewhere. You should know something else. We don't chew from these and we won't chew in the future. We have a story, we fight for problems, we fight for a massive movement, and we do not accept threats.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u404	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u405	Mr. Bogdano, please. We have a bill to discuss and instead the debate has gone on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u406	Mr President, I need a minute and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u407	But he'll want to answer that later, Mr. Pallis. It's one of those people they want to answer. I'll have to deal with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u408	I don't want to say anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u409	Here, you have the floor. Please do not provoke again. We have condemned the issue of yours. But put the mask on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u410	Excuse me, I'm confused. I thought I was on the Step. I find with deep regret that forty-seven years after the legitimisation the Communist Party of Greece has not taken "sympathy" for the basics, the fundamentals, the sanctuaries and the loyals of urban democracy, liberal democracy and parliamentaryism. It's okay. Liberal democracy is the perfect of the states, because it gives institutional space to its enemies even.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u411	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u412	As far as political violence is concerned, it is written in your statute and liberal urban democracy accepts you in its great hospitable table at the temple of democracy. These must be heard once.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u413	Yeah?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u414	Please, Mr. Comrade. Finish, Mr. Bogdano.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u415	I conclude with the words of the great conservative and liberal Margaret Thatcher. Put it right in your mind: "There is no political violence, there is no political bombing, there is no political murder. There is criminal violence, criminal bombing, criminal murder, only these." Please understand that even if you don't want it, you're smiling it. And if you do not have me for a particularly important personality, at least do not wish those who threaten to achieve their purpose. She's not human after all. And I'm ending it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr Bogdano.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u417	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u418	Here you go, Mr. Pafile, but be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u419	Mr Bogdano, with your urban democracy, we defend those who produce wealth and rob him of a overwhelming minority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Paphie, put your mask on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u421	Two yards and two weights in the mask!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u422	We did, Mr. Bogdano. Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u423	We defend the people who produce wealth, who live in poverty and in misery, and you defend 'treat', those who exploit them, those who live in wealth and in fat. If you think you're giving us any rights, read history. We took them with our sword and with our blood these rights. Nor are we going to retreat or compromise what is called 'civil justice and democracy'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u424	Me neither. That's a good fight!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Bogdano, don't interrupt. Mr. Paphie, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u426	But he's interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u427	You're right. Mr. Bogdano, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u428	So you should know that the "storm" comes and will scan you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u429	Are you going to eat me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u430	...and he'll send you to the story dumpster, people like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u431	...the grave don't send me to the grave.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u432	Mr Dimitris Kouvelas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u433	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a new Member, I do not hide my surprise at the sluts expressed by previous colleagues. I'd rather you'd be best-educated teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, the philosopher of Diogenes had said that education is for young people of soundness, for the poor of wealth, for the rich ornament. That is why we are discussing today with this draft law, which is still a reform of the Mitsotakis Government for higher education, for our universities. A reform that is capable of changing the educational landscape and allowing young generations to see the university as an exclusive area of free expression, teaching, knowledge and research. Because this is the good university in all the countries of the world, from America and Europe to Asia and Australia, regardless of whether in Greece for decades it has been combined with all kinds of vandalism and all kinds of common criminal law. Of course, no reform can work in practice unless it changes our way of thinking beforehand. Are citizens themselves asking a series of questions: Do we have worthy teachers? The answer is 'of course and yes'. Do we have high-quality academic programs? Definitely. Our universities are high-level. It is demonstrated whenever the classification of universities is announced worldwide. Do we have a high level of knowledge? The answer here is yes. Do we have excellent students? Of course we do. Is this all done without the slightest risk to the safety of students, teachers, people living and working in universities? Here, unfortunately, the answer is no. We made our position clear before the elections. We said we'd put class in the universities with absolute respect for the university and academic environment. The Greek citizens approved it with the results of the 7th of July last year. Why is it a reform, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law? For the first time, it attempts to solve pathogens of decades, to further upgrade the level of study in higher education institutions, to strengthen the climate of safety in the academic environment. And, of course, ensure more targeted, more qualitative choices for our students and greater autonomy in our universities. Does anyone think that he honors the country that gave birth to democracy, to education, to culture, to the recent attack and then to the impoverishment of the dean of the Economic University of Athens? No, he's not honoring us. I think we've all agreed on that. But the glass is over now. That's enough with violence. That's enough of the breakthrough in the university spaces. They call it the teachers, the students. People call it. I am pleased to hear Mr Tsipras tell you that there is a serious problem of all kinds of infringability in our universities a little while ago. We all finally agree on that. Only we disagree with the method of resolving the problem. I would again pass on Mr Tsipras's words that the solution would be a special guardian who would warn the dean, which, in turn, would notify the police, which would be mobilised shortly later, to check after the licence it will take if it is possible to stop the illegal acts that were found - who knows how much earlier - that they are unfolding. As the society would have said, we all understand: the latter will wipe out the light. So, in all the recent opinions, society shows how mature it is for the reform that we are debating today and tomorrow. In all the recent opinions surveys, you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are the only ones who do not understand that by a vast majority, 70% and 75%, citizens want university safety in accordance with the proposal made by the government. Even your voters say so. 40 percent, over one in three, says he's in favor of a special guardian inside the universities. You, however, continue to make his known opposition not at all. This is the rhetoric that brought you to the headquarters of Antipopulation. The prediction, of course, is that you will be staying for some time yet. In the Minutes, something that has been heard many times. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I predict what the attitude and behaviour of the Greek citizens will be with your porches. You know, we're being watched and judged carefully. The majority of the bodies in the committee have said so. There's another thing about university security and security. The dean of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, which also has the largest campus in the country, clearly stated that care is a matter of universities and this will be seen with private security companies and security, according to the decision of the Aristotle University, but also with decisions of the Council of State, is a matter of state. You are wrong to insist on the opposite. Didn't you read the report from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament? Already this morning. Most of my colleagues have been mentioned. However, I am tabling this in the Minutes once again. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is exactly what we are doing with the arrangements of this draft law. We protect from academic freedom on the one hand and on the other we aim to improve the quality of the academic environment. So we'll have a controlled access system and a pass card inside the universities and there'll be a perimeter guard. This is happening everywhere. Everywhere in the world they respect institutions, but they also respect the property of universities, whether they are private or public. I really don't suppose you'd think there's a parent who'd like to send his kid to the university in another town and feel insecurity about how he gets in, out, out, released to the universities. So this special guardian without weapons, with a special uniform, will work with the university bodies precisely in order to prevent infraction. Here is innovation, and here I think we all have to agree that it is good to prevent infringement rather than run either by calling the police or by organising special operations to clarify everything that is going on. There are also arrangements for the introduction of universities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please, and I will conclude soon. We're too far behind. A very significant percentage of Greek students, one out of three, graduates after the 30th year of their age. We're too far behind. Just 9% of Greek students, from the registered, graduate from the universities each year, while the average constant is 24%. So we make sure the candidate student chooses targeted. For the first time, university departments are allowed to define the basis for their introduction in conjunction with the Ministry and thus have students who will have the appetite for their studies and have reason to run them quickly to enter the production process, to continue the next step professionally. Education requires consensus, seriousness and party consultation, political co-operation. Thousands of 'eternal students', I think it is a phenomenon with which we are all concerned, and we believe that we will have a very important limitation on this issue. Whatever policy one is applying in the country in individual areas one is certain. For Greece, a key pillar of progress has always been and is our education. So we do our best, because we must not forget that in the end everything is a question of education and the new generation we look forward to. Thank you very much and I invite you to vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u434	Thank you very much, Mr. Couvela. You hurt me. I'm already being asked for ten minutes from the bottom. From Thessaloniki to Kavala, Mrs. Sultana Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u435	To whom will the procedure be concluded, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u436	Up to sixty. Mrs. Gara, we'll be done. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is advertised as a bill that will upgrade public universities. But it actually hides two things. The major one for you at the time, the great rumphetti, that is, you do to private colleges to multiply their clientele and profits by sacrificing public free education. And the present glance about you, the imposition of police rule within public universities. I am saying at the moment why the police dominate you and wish it. You have already achieved it with the lifting of asylum, with the abolition of university asylum, and now you are also bringing police rule into the universities to disorientate the world from the major Rusfetti in colleges and to provoke the reflexes of left-wing and democratic factions. The way you degrade and really benefit public free education and public universities doesn't surprise us. At the heart of your policy, you have the defence and total domination of everything private against the restriction and essentially the disappearance of everything public. You cannot accept with anything and take the view that a public asset should be provided free of charge or with a minimum of social criteria, rather than handing it over to individuals who will produce it and distribute it to those who have the necessary financial resources. Health, social security, education in this regard, even water, electricity, air, transport are done by you over time for gold business. And you're doing gold business today, even though poverty is reaping out, even though unemployment has risen up, even though the economy has paralyzed and the businessmen of the focus give you their keys in the next few hours. You even think now is how you will benefit private interests and in this regard 'collegiates'. And you do it every time, with the same surgical accuracy: Underscore the public good, in this regard, you submit to the Greek public and the citizens, then confuse yourself, provoke social automation, causing panic that something evil will happen in the world and finally disperse against the Greek public and citizens. So since you did all of this, the bill under discussion comes to complete the demolition of the Greek public universities that started with their simulation with colleges, three-year-old colleges, undignified colleges, without assessment of colleges which you do equal to the public universities of five years of study. So since you have deliberately ensured, which I repeat, that those who fail to enter the public universities receive the same qualifications as those who are successful in public universities will receive on payment as those who are successful in public universities, you have even further reduced the number of importers in public and then restored the minimum import base, so as to ensure with certainty that colleges have more customers. From this morning we have heard irrational and outrageous views from the Members of the New Democracy, from the first to the last Member. But I shall refer to the first one who showed us your line. So let's see what Mr Charakopoulos said. "If he can't write..." - as he said - "the basis of a student, what hope does he have to finish his studies? No hope. For whom, then, is the benefit? About the student who's gonna waste his time? About the parent who's going to spend his money? For no one. For the only one who benefits..." - your Member said - "...is the swamper of the neighborhood and the owner of the house he rents." You don't approve of this image. You're saying this kid shouldn't be in public universities. I'll add something, the one for whom there will still be a benefit. Apart from the sultan and the owner of his home, there will therefore be a benefit to the student itself, but also to the "collegiar". Then this image you like, changes the data. Then this student is good. Then this student who will pay with his parents' money and often with his parents' sweat - because that is where the small and medium-sized ones will get their children to go to college - will get a degree in time - that is, he will not be late, he will not be an eternal student - he will have an equal degree with the other students in public universities, which you now consider capable and that they must be distinguished. Of course, he will have the same chances of employment. So, in any case, you approve of the benefit of colleges. That's your problem. The aim has therefore been achieved! And we're going to the police rule that, as I said before, by the way, you brought her along with this college bill, for the reasons I said. Your unsubstantiated desire, therefore, is to level out every voice of resistance within public universities, to convert them from free movement of ideas, from action cores of student movements and to highlight democratic values in degraded, sterile institutions supposedly of knowledge, where fear and repression will prevail. Because, you know, when fear and repression dominates, knowledge does not bloom. These are your intrinsic thoughts and, by the way, a thousand rousphetological recruitments ahead of possible elections. And, of course, you do not answer the key questions put to you by the entire opposition this morning. Firstly, why bring this bill, while you have already abolished the asylum, and while ELAS can enter without any hindrance, without any invitation and without any permission in all academic areas? Secondly, yes, as our president admitted a few hours ago, Alexis Tsipras, there is a problem in some universities. But no one has said, and you do not prove to us here in the Greek Parliament, or even outside it, what are the elements of paralytic lawlessness within the universities and what is this paralytic lawlessness that makes you bring this bill today? You didn't bring the evidence today, at least as far as I've been watching since this morning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly, why don't you explain to us why you do not accept the proposal of the Presidents that there are special storage bodies with staff from the university, as is happening throughout Europe, which will meet the purpose you set, namely safety within universities, and whenever necessary, if there is no university asylum, to call on the police? I repeat, this is happening throughout Europe. Why don't you tell us what need you don't choose this solution and you choose to spend 30 million euros on a thousand policemen, while our universities, which you supposedly want to upgrade, have huge gaps in staff and infrastructure, and while Greece is a champion in Europe for policemen in a population ratio and at the same time in Europe in a number of teachers in a proportion of them? And of course you're lying, Mrs. Kerameau, that the whole society agrees. The Republican authorities are opposing, the congresses are opposing, the very prescribers are opposed, the thousands of two hundred universities are opposed, the students are against, the parents are against, and even the Panhellenic Police Officers' Federation is against. And add the whole of the left-wing democratic opposition. Even your own executives are opposite. Mr. Souflias, Mr. Spiliotopoulos, Mr. Fortsakis, Mr. Kyrchoss and others are against your bill. You have a wide front for education and democracy - I end, Mr President - that resists and resists the implementation of the abominable bill that you are going to vote on today. And this bill will be one of the first to be abolished, because it really is only in Greece. Only in Greece has nothing to do with education and social reality. The bill, Mrs. Keramos, is not addressed to all students and students, as you said at the teleconferencing conference with the DPRK. It is addressed to students and students. The rest you don't dare meet them or hide behind the screen of your computer will necessarily meet them in the streets and in the marches. And we'll be with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. Mr Anastasios Publicakis is called at Stepma by New Democracy and Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u439	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Evros yesterday and today welcomed two ministers, the Minister for Immigration and Asylum, Mr. South Mitarakis and the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr. Stelios Petsas. The government is present at Evros, Thrace, in its perceptive regions and its officials, and they discuss and consult local society on issues that concern it. The consultations that I have proposed from the outset will reach the best possible and acceptable solutions to the perpetrators of tensions, solutions that will respond to the people's and patriotic senses and serve the objective of effective guarding our borders and address the migration problem. Social peace, understanding, unity are essential to the border. We're hospitable. We are the same descendants of painful and real refugees. We are an open and cross-cutting society, but with great sensitivities, although we have a deterrent technical barrier internationally acceptable. With intense patriotism, with traditions and historical memories, the Hebrews trust this government and its MPs and show it with gratitude, because they do not forget in March 2020. I am defending my place at all levels, at all places, and above all from the seats of this House. This is my mission, and when I take it, I perform it, as I did with plan, with soundness and efficiency, always for peace and only for the good. And now on the bill. This is a reformist effort to modernise and improve the educational system of the country. We look forward to an extrovert, autonomous and competitive education, free of pathogens and strangles of decades, from images unacceptable to the center of the capital and the city of Thessaloniki. The proposed provisions improve the academic environment in our higher education institutions. The new process of admission to higher education streamlines the selection process by candidates. The limitation of the number of sections to be declared by the high school student means greater responsibility and more serious orientation. At the same time, the two phases of computerised declarations mean a second chance to everyone. The maximum duration of study improves the number and graduation rate and ensures faster integration of graduates into the labour market. It ends the 'eternal students' who are plagued by universities, with positive consequences for the graduation rate. Minister, we are as a country in the first positions in a student population in the European Union, but last in graduation rates. After all, you have said it and we accept it. Legislation also includes provisions that restore safety and freedom in the academic environment - which have been lost in recent decades - of an area of free movement of ideas, of uninterrupted research and teaching. Unfortunately, the Greek university had been turned into a warrior, to a refuge, but also to a banquet of violence and criminal acts. I am an eyewitness and testify to my experience and I am very careful, very respectful and unspeakable. This government is breaking eggs. It establishes protection services for university institutions, which will come under the Greek Police, a central body of the Greek state that is a real pillar. They will be managed in the most imprecise way of ranking through the ADP by young children in this House, with special training tailored to the specificities of the respective university space, playing a preventive role, but also a deterrent. To date, universities with the existing framework have not been able to regulate themselves in terms of security conditions. We are witnessing serious criminal offences and many of them we have not understood. To date, universities with the existing framework have not been able to prevent the situation that I described. Consequently, the national police are the measure of the most recent refuge, as was wisely underlined by experienced Michael Chrysochoidis. I hope that in a few years' time the police will not need either inside or outside the universities, as Katahakis wants today. Greek citizens are not afraid of Greek police. They trust it with a high percentage of acceptance, as has been measured from time to time by the respective companies. They serve it when their integrity, life and property are threatened. On the contrary, the Greek Police are only a threat to those who are in violation of the law. They're the only ones who fear her. Abbeys feed immunity inside and outside the universities. Is there anyone who believes there is a problem of free movement of ideas on Greek territory? Why would the presence of police officers be such a problem within universities? On the contrary, it will contribute to the free movement of ideas. The ultimate purpose is to maintain the responsibility to pass to the Rectorian authorities and to a mixed system of conserving order in education, as I had envisioned and formulated as the leader of the Greek Police. Mr. Minister, the Dumot Nursing Hospital in the International University of Thessaloniki needs to find its place. We claim the promotion of the appendix to a department and its subdivision to its natural and academic space, which is the Democritus University of Thrace, based in the city of the castles. I have so far submitted a documented plan of educational reform which is the fruit of scientists, actors, university and thinking citizens of Evros. In fact, I have had the great honour of accepting me on the first day of taking up your duties. I have also given you this draft educational reform in Evros Prefecture. Education and its structures can strengthen our region and promote labour, production and prosperity and shield the prefecture. The neighborhood's next hybrid attack will resist the prefecture and its important youth. At the same time, I would like to propose that the higher education institutions of the outermost regions be discriminated against in terms of the conditions of admission of students. Yes, to the conditions of decent performance, but not to the extinction of parts of EIO from the remote areas. I am sure that you will take care of this and do the exercise on paper that is extremely necessary. I close my speech by saying that I am voting in favour of today's bill for these reasons. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u440	Thank you very much, Mr. Prussakis. And from Evros we go to Lesvos and Mrs Konnaka from the Communist Party of Greece. Then there are four colleagues and we shall finish the sitting for today. It has been announced from a very early date that we will be reaching our Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, thank you. The period chosen by the Government to bring such a bill with serious overturns for the access and functioning of higher education does not obey, as the government once again repeats, common sense. You even ask for the change from above because students are protesting when you are deliberately choosing to bring the overthrows to universities and even apocalypse to measure who is involved in them. Don't count! You're gonna lose count, that's thousands! Thousands of students are struggling for the prospect of their studies after a year when universities remain closed. New year's students haven't even seen what a student amphitheater is like. For the second academic year students continue to make scientists by mail, without access to workshops, clinics, practices, accumulating teaching gaps. And what are you doing? You run to make use of the pandemic, not to make their reasonable demands, the logical demands of the entire university community that would allow students to return safely to amphitheatres safely, but to legislate on how to get them out of one hour ahead of them, instead of using it as an opportunity to develop workshop rooms, infrastructures that were missing from the foundations and well before the pandemic, public buildings that are straying or which you are planning to sell, with scientific teaching staff that is also starving untreated and for which you are crying when you end up in Brain Drain. So instead of hiring these people and covering any of the years' gaps, you hire permanent special guards to police the universities you found, of course, in "fucking off" thirty million euros and some more to put monitoring mechanisms on. As in "shoot-out" you also found the ideal background, the unacceptable images of the well-known provocative mechanisms in ASEAN and elsewhere, which, admittedly, offer you invaluable services today. Allow me to comment, because we really hear you repeat the images of terror in the Greek universities, and we will begin to believe that we played in a thriller in law school and in the other schools of the center. Mercy! The horror images for university students were when they had to pay the bills from insufficient care, when they had to put their hand in the pocket more deeply than you cut and what they never reached the university funds, because every year you're getting more and more funding. From such claims you want to shield the university with cameras, but also with disciplinary boards, which will impose even the deletion of students who dared to 'comfort', as you say, the process of education, claiming the satisfaction of cultural rights and student care, those who oppose the introduction of teachers in postgraduate studies - what SYRIZA was doing, of course, and you found them ready - and other business activities of universities, which undermine the content of education itself. The fulfilment of these claims would also be essential to all those who are late in completing their studies, not because they do not want to, but because, for the majority of them, their work is a one-way road to cover the heavy cost of study and you are stirring them up because they are late in graduating. Do you really solve their problem? You're doing exactly the opposite. Instead of making it easier for them by providing substantial student care so that they can actually study integrals, you can remove further the completion of their studies with half a year, that is, you turn them into 'eternal's. Indeed, the prerequisite you put is really a monument of hypocrisy. You ask workers to prove 20-week-old work. Well, really, don't you know the black, black reality for the working students, who are the biggest tank of uninsured and elastic work? If you don't know her, you should go and ask the managers of the SAD who make the "manajara" in the cafes and bars and supply this tank with uninsured workers. To the limits of humanity is the coldness that you make to the thousands of students by legislating even greater obstacles to entry into universities, and even three months before the pan-Hellenics, when the school's shutdown is again announced, when for a year they have experienced the same cardogram, the "opened" process of telecommunications multiplying the educational gaps and leaving them even further behind, despite the valuable efforts of teachers. The minimum import base is the worst version of the unsuccessful experiment of the 'twelfth' base, since it gives a decisive reason for the choice of students in the institutions themselves, even increasing the categorisation of departments and graduates, even in the same cognitive subject. And you're wondering, that's not guilty: is it possible they can enter universities with scores of '2' and '3'? But why do you not wonder what work these students are? Whose work is a school in which integrated knowledge from fragmentary information and skills, a single-sided school geared to the marathon examination, is constantly replaced? You also put a theme bank in the 1st grade, the only unfinishedness SYRIZA left to turn the entire high school into an examination arena, i.e., force teachers with the themes banks to work with the "sos" to get the matter out, opening more the lanes for the children of popular families who can't afford the tutors. Is it, in the end, irrelevant to their parents' pockets and social status? Of course, you do not have the same concern about the quality of the graduates, for those who allow their pockets, with the same low degrees, to pay a private college, whose degrees you have equated with the Blessings of SYRIZA, which is now complaining about. Does the second 'cutter', that of limiting the choices of computer to 10% of the field and in the second phase of submission for those sections that go beyond, actually help students study at the schools they really want? More reminds me of jackpot draw in the jocker, since the same chances will be that the students will be able to enter the school they choose. Of course, this massive towel of twenty, thirty thousand candidates will also throw out the final tombstone for many regional universities, whose low base does not reflect their low scientific level respectively, but above all the reduced demand because of the gross burden on the people's families because of the lack of student care and the ban on travel. This is another reason for abandoning studies for many of the students, for example in the departments of the Aegean University, as well as in a number of other regional departments and not just, closing, merged objects. And all these experiments are carried out on the back of students and their families. For the scientific object, you'll never be sad. So categorisation of schools and, by extension, graduates is not aimed at raising the scientific level, and much more is not aimed at guaranteeing strong professional rights for which the State Secretary spoke to us earlier, but precisely the opposite. It aims at a variety of young people with skills, with fewer academic skills, but more professional flexibility, cheaper and more targeted at business demands. And when these questions are changed, you're sending them back to the marathon starting point to collect new qualifications. That is why you are in a hurry to get more graduates from the universities so that there can be more choices in the market shelves. So these demands run counter to the need for a genuinely public and free university to guarantee full-time education, with a single degree per scientific object, with full professional rights and, above all, to direct science to the real people's needs. That is common sense, and so is the need for society itself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u442	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. I cannot preside and have Mr Athanasios Kavada from Lefkada and New Democracy! There's no way! Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u443	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the invoicing and domination of self-evident and rationality is a step forward for Greek society. The vast majority of citizens and, indeed, those who support the SYRIZA appreciate the provisions of the Education Act. That should reflect on the Civic Opposition. It is difficult to understand exactly what the party of Officerial Responsibility defends. Tolerance to lawlessness and phenomena of violence in universities? Does there not be an import basis at the university and introduce students with an average of ‘2’ and ‘3’? Do we continue to have eternal students so that no university knows how many students he really has and can't shape his educational program? The data of the National Higher Education Authority for ‘Eternal Students’ are revealing. In the period 2018-2019 the “eternal students” were two hundred two thousand five hundred eighty eighty in total six hundred sixty-sixty thousand seven hundred thirty-four registered. We're talking about a percentage of 42%. These distortions had to be addressed. In rationalisation it is necessary to adopt best practices that exist and operate in other countries. Colleagues from SYRIZA are graduates or university professors abroad. Having this experience, how can they justify tolerance to phenomena of violence and lawlessness in the Greek universities? At the university complex of Sorbonne there is storage, while access to all the facilities of the university is done by displaying the student identity. The same in Great Britain: The entrance of students and visitors to university facilities is fully controlled by electronic means. In our country for many years we have lived insanity by distorting the idea of university asylum. The asylum of ideas, which is actually the university, has become an asylum for violence and lawlessness. Do I need to list the attacks on teachers, disasters and disasters in university spaces, with the account going to the public? Do I need to refer to the fact that they used the university as asylum and unbattled violations, which burned and broke Athens? All this is well known. They have already been appreciated and rejected by the citizens, who are demanding an end to this absurdity. The New Democracy Government, with determination and strong will, has put an end to this distortion. With the same determination and with the support of the majority of citizens, we ensure through this bill the legality of university spaces and the safety of the academic community. The controlled e-card entry for students, the enhancement of lighting and security infrastructures at the university, the creation of teams to protect university institutions, with special training to be subject to Greek Police, upgrades the academic environment. I also consider a number of regulations to be particularly positive: the possibility of submitting from candidates the pan-Hellenic examinations of parallel computers for their entry into public IEC, which will enter into force immediately this summer, a provision supplementing the entire and coherent vocational education system recently introduced by the Government. The introduction of a maximum time limit for university studies, with the partial exception of those who work and those who have health problems themselves or their families. The introduction of two phases in the submission of computerised papers for candidates in the pan-Hellenic examinations, which will take effect from the summer of 2022. The establishment by each university school of the minimum import base, as well as a coefficient of gravity for any lesson that it considers important. Because one cannot enter the Mathematical Department, having written "2" or "3" in mathematics. This gives autonomy to higher education institutions, which are best aware of their needs, to define the import threshold. To those who oppose the regulation establishing a minimum basis for introduction to universities, I will quote only one element: the Department of the Agricultural University of Forestry and Natural Environment Management in Karpenissi this year had an import base of six hundred and twenty-five units. In other words, someone could enter this department, giving a white glue, just writing his name on the pan-Hellenics. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis with today's bill corrects the paths of higher education and ensures that every young person and young person can acquire useful knowledge and graduate ready for creative professional life. He returns the universities to those rightfully owned, to the students, to the teachers, to knowledge and to science. Member of this renowned university and academic community aspires to be Lefkada. My region claims to remain on the map of higher education with the establishment and operation of the Regional Development Department of the Ionian University. In cooperation and with the agreement of the Republican authorities, we have been struggling for over a year to enrich the dossier to be examined by the National Higher Education Authority. The Ionian University has a ready-to-degree guide and course content, with teaching staff, and has provided funding for the operation of the Department. We have found a private building for the housing of the department, for the construction of which is already running a competition, and we are preparing for the creation of a student home. Minister, I have several times transferred to the leadership of the Ministry of Education the great desire of the Lefkada to operate this department. It is not possible for this island, which is located in the center of the Istanbul, with easy access to mainland Greece, to be the only one without a higher education section. I know the decision is the Independent National Authority. But I believe that, for our part, together with the Ionian University, we have done our best. I hope that this effort, as well as the academic value, sustainability and feasibility of the place we propose, will be recognised so that Lefkada, the island that has given birth to great personalities of science and intellectuals, can participate in the great academic family. Of course, I am voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, Mr Cavada, for keeping time, because it was trapped in the twelfth. Mr. Constantine Markos has the floor from beautiful Achaia, not to miss him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u445	How many units are in the station?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u446	‘8’, with ‘9’, not ‘2’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u447	It's all right with the ruffles, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u448	Mr. Philly, please! Here, Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u449	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, the colleague who passed through this Step a moment ago had samples of a small-scale Member of Parliament. I'm sorry, I don't call it disgraceful. To close in Karpenisi, open in Lefkada, which will not get'six', will take 'eight'. We built the university in Lefkada. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to pay tribute to a man who has left Patras today, a fighter of democracy and the Left and a approved journalist, who has honoured regional journalism as few as possible. It is Nassos Nassopoulos, who was a pioneer in new technologies and journalistic morality and left a school. Unfortunately, he left early. A second thing I would like to say before the matter is for a colleague who admits that I do not remember his name. Without wanting to prefer him again, I will say that at least in the face of the size of Vassiliou Vassiliou, for which he spoke disgracefully and insultingly, he is very little. I'm sorry, but I don't remember his name. In my speech on our subject, I could give the title'six lies, six truths and a reality for universities'. So, outlines lies. First lie: Infringibility has been widened so that you can bring the universities as centres of lawlessness and ignore, even a few days ago, the excellent ranking taken by the Greek universities in the international area. You are building a framework that exaggerates to an existing problem, which ignores that on the basis of official evidence, the violation of universities is currently around the universities. The student feels safe around the university. He feels insecure when he leaves the Architecture School to cross Tossica. He feels unsafe at night outside Economics when he comes out to leave his university. He feels insecure when he comes out of Aristotle to cross across to Melenikos. Outside the university is infraction, and that's where your policing is very incomplete. And anyway, a speaker from these “non papers” that New Democracy gives speakers mentions Patras as well. I'm a professor of Patras University. In the last two years, two minor infractional issues have been raised, which have been settled by the senate. Where's the intrusion? Secondly, there is something else that needs to be done about the legislative framework in order to deal with infrastability. With the same arguments you had come in June, in August, when you legislated to abolish asylum. While the existing legislative regime was sufficient to deal with any issues of infringement, you added a new one. And that's enough to deal with. And you come with a third operation to do something. Third lie: excellence. Promote private colleges. You have now begun not to deny it either. Do you know the first private college to appear on the international rankings is somewhere, someone on the number one thousand four hundred? And you know that four universities in our country came down under three hundred thirty days ago? What about the others, most of them, under a thousand? Where's your quality and excellence? Fourth lie: the international environment. This is where your arguments collapsed. Of all the schools in Europe and beyond the Atlantic country, the presence of state police in universities is myth. The University of John Hopkins, which introduced police after Floyd's murder in 2020, abolished it, because he created a lot of problems from what he tried to solve, and you know, in a country that invads schools and schools with guns on his hands. Fifth lie: You have hidden the data of the Privacy Authority for Personal Character. Mr. Bernardakis and others were a little revealing. You hid for ten days what the Protection Authority observes you. This is a collapse of institutions and the process. And, of course, it is completely in breach of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights with regard to cameras. It's a shame, it's a shame. The sixth lie - there are many lies, but I am talking about the most blatant - is the catastrophic role of so-called 'eternal students' it has been shown that, first of all, it is not a burden on universities. I would like to ask the Members of the Co-Population and the Minister present and the rapporteurs if they have thought of why they have prolonged their studies, excellent on the basis of the pan-Hellenic examinations, from the first-line schools, medical, legal, polytechnic, political engineers. They extend their studies to the same extent as other smaller schools. Why? Because it's the problem, which is leaving the university and which doesn't want you to solve. Let's go to the truths. The truths are - and you will apologize to your voters - that at least twenty-five thousand fewer people will enter September. Get ready. The colleague who left Thrace will go and say why parts will be removed in Thrace, which will be reduced by 36%, and the result will be a reduction in the sections. The second truth is that really many university departments will close. The third is you're redeeming the high school graduation. It's over in high school. It's now a chorus, which students have to follow. Wednesday truth: You are completely excluded from the candidates of this evening's high school, fighters of life, who fight great battle and manage it. How many are there? Six hundred people a year. Why are you caratoming them? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President. Fifth truth: As far as 'n + 2' and 'n + 3' are concerned, the previous speakers have said so and I do not want to do so. Do you know, however, that with the Disciplinary Law introduced by the punishments for a simple copying - we have all faced copies at the university - which may have a miscarriage from the time of study, may lead some 'n+2' and 'n+3' to be expelled from the schools? And you do something more raw: connect its application to or not from the universities with the funding, that is, you get from their minds the superpowers, which everyone except one is against, and you say "If you don't apply it, it doesn't have money". That's disgusting. And the sixth truth, the last: there are issues of constitutionality. It is clear and we will see that in future, despite the vote this morning, both on asylum and the university's self-employed. I'm hanging up. These were the six lies and six truths about the universities. The reality now. The reality, gentlemen of Coupling, is that your passage from the Ministry of Education and your policy, like others, will be a sad, dark story in the history of education in our country and will be mentioned as an example of dark politics, nothing more. It will be one of the first topics that we will repeal. We'll bring back the green schools you haven't allowed for three months to start. We will reintroduce university vocational education and that will be the beginning for real reform in education. And that's gonna be noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr. Marcus. We're going up north in Pieria, and Mrs. Anna Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u451	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, about a year and a half ago, when the New Democracy took over the country, many have talked about a major revolution, a revolution in common sense. Since then the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has ruled and legislated, simply doing the self-evident thing and having in all its legislative initiatives the acceptance of the great majority of Greek society. They therefore deserve congratulations to the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, because today's draft law on higher education is one of the bills that act common sense and have the consent of most Greek citizens, regardless of political choices. Ladies and gentlemen, for the New Democracy Government education is the biggest investment in the country, with the aim of our academic institutions actually operating with the self-government of Article 16 of the Constitution, being modern, extroverted and in common stepping up with the labour market. Today's bill attempts to heal pathogens for decades and create conditions and conditions for another educational landscape that meets the expectations and needs, not only of our country but of an open, transnational society. First of all, it goes without saying that the academic conditions must be strengthened and the excessively low import bases eliminated, as a result of the legislation of the previous government. The introduction of the minimum basis is a grading threshold which does not constitute an obstacle to higher education studies. On the other hand, it is a safe criterion, and it is ensured that the young person can follow and successfully complete his or her studies, as is self-evident that an end to the phenomenon of eternal students must be given at some point. It is characteristic that our country has one of the lowest graduates in Europe's registered students, namely only 9%, when the European average is 24%. And it's even more characteristic that almost 30% of the imported ever graduates. The draft law lays down for the first time a school ceiling, but taking care of the current students and providing for exceptions for health reasons, for those who work and for other important reasons, an arrangement which is perfectly in line with the principle of legitimate expectations, this fundamental principle of public law, which also applies to the level of legislative power, as is the case in this case. Finally, it goes without saying that our universities must finally stop being centres of violence and illegality. We can't close our eyes anymore. We cannot be blind to the violence, threats, preconflicts, paramilitary, drug trafficking, and to the images of shame and discomfort that we have all experienced recently in our universities. All of this is now a solution, with the controlled entry to universities, the safety and security unit and the protection teams of university institutions. Some of course from Opposition today appear as late defenders of academic freedom, claiming that the arrangements of the bill will allegedly limit academic freedom. I wonder what academic freedom colleagues refer to when it is clearly threatened or often not even in the present conditions of violence and iniquity. I also wonder if they have a picture, if they know what is happening anywhere else in the world, what is the case with the internationally-famous universities in America, Great Britain, of the continental Europe attracting thousands of students from all countries. Are there such incidents of violence in these universities and similar images to what we live in our own universities? The answer is obvious. Nevertheless, and while we have this regrettable privilege as a country, we still have to speak and argue about the self-evident and what has long been received in most countries of Europe and the world. Finally, I wonder if the Vice-Presidents of the Opposition know that the vast majority of Greek citizens - including the majority of their own voters - agrees with most of the regulations in the bill. I wonder what they have to answer to all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, today at a time of history, at the time of the technological revolution, where the speech meets as directly as the counterpart, the argument for the counter-project, the denial, but also at a time when modern reality highlights particular demands and difficulties, we must look to the issues of education on the path of composition and constant orientation that will give prospects for quality and efficient education and meet the demands of our times. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to have universities of modern, extroversion, safe, able to compete with high-level universities abroad, if we simply want to have better universities, reform like today is needed. The Greek people who trusts their children in universities and who are paying their money for their operation can no longer tolerate violence and lawlessness, can no longer tolerate the groups that are being guided by the democratic free university, that is to say, many times in charge of democracy itself. Academic freedom and upgrading of the academic environment without security is not meant. Today's bill is not just the implementation of self-evident. It's another step towards tomorrow's university, a university worthy of our children. And we all have the historic duty to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mrs Papadimitriou, and respect for the time. We'll hang up with the Jew Mrs. Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA. Mrs. Gara, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by listening so long to the speeches of colleagues and, above all, to the majority, from the New Democracy Party, I honestly wonder if we are living in the same country, if we have entered the same universities, if we have the same images, the same experience, if we are addressing the same world. Because I'm scared when I hear you. I'm really scared! I think around me, our neighborhood that has too many university buildings and schools is a man of lawlessness where crimes occur every day, where you're afraid to go in, that it's the destruction of the world, and we need to put order. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but I've been through a Greek university and not a long time ago. For us the university was a place of creation, a place of learning, an area that we knew the world, a place that we knew very important people, our teachers or our guest teachers, an area that we exchanged views, which we exchanged books, musicians, which we knew, through the narrations of our friends and fellow students, what is going on in their families, in their world, the difficulties that exist, the good and the bad ones. That was the university. And that's the university. What the goal of presenting a school, a university, which must be the most positive, the most free, the most creative it can be for the new generation, to present it as if it were a hell, as if it were the biggest criminals in there and fear the world and say: "Where do I send my child, child! She's going to study? Leave it, let it go, where it's going in there!" What's the target? Why? Why do you deceive what we have won as a Greek society? Why do you deceive all these scientists who have contributed to Greek society and internationally? You have a target. And, unfortunately, it's a sloppy target. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, to excuse the tension, I really think we are living in different countries and having different experiences and images and obviously have a different target. Since the government took over by New Democracy, our country, unfortunately, has been running rapidly in black conservative days that perhaps the Greek society would like to forget. The Greek people, unfortunately, once again pay the ideals, the ideological obsessions of this government. This is a government that is not only intimidating the world, but has failed at all levels. It is far from the real needs of society, but it shows particular importance to serve the great private interests, because they are the ones that put it in power and keep it in life. Authority, repression, arrogance, cynicism, propaganda, trembling, retreat. That's what you provide to society. You limit social rights, individual rights, labour rights. You are attacking labour, youth, public space, public education, public health. Refuse to take any effective measures for the pandemic, strengthen the ESS, take measures in the means of transport, in mass workplaces, in schools. There you have failed completely. You've found the solution and upload the lockdown switch. Whatever the problem is, take a lockdown. And what are you actually limiting? You're limiting leisure activities. You're limiting people's relationships. You're limiting dialogue. You're limiting information, art. Why? Because the isolation and the only information to be directed by the media is likely to suit you politically at such a juncture. You have found the opportunity, with the world closed in the houses, instead of finding other effective solutions that will protect and support society, you are going through the most reactionary and anti-social arrangements. The thorn in these plans is the public university and the view of universities about your plans. It is no coincidence that even from your political space university teachers have reacted and you have been invited to stop, prevent these projects. Because you want, on the one hand, to address customers to private colleges, and on the other, you want to create a new generation of cheap, consumable workers. You don't want excellence. You want to use the word excellence to look nice. The real excellence, however, you did not support it and we never honoured it. So you want to build cheap labour, young people who do not have space in broad education, social education, political education, because you have shown that you are afraid of the new generation. Fear the ideas. Fear of progress. Fear the overthrow. Afraid of knowledge. You fear the public university's own contribution to our social and state function. And this attack started in the first months of your government. You have reduced public spending on education, particularly by hitting universities on the periphery. You froze the recruitment of teachers, abolished the asylum, abolished new university departments, as well as the two-year training centres. You balanced college and university degrees and professional rights. You are coming today to complete this crime, your destructive work, excluding tens of thousands of children from access to universities and knowledge, public university and free knowledge, and indeed, at a time of pandemic that children are very difficult to complete in school. And instead of supporting them, you rule out them. You are putting brakes on the dreams, on the targets, on the planning of thousands of children, mainly populist families, by establishing the minimum import base, an old, destructive and class-specific discriminatory policy that the obsessed, ideological, anachronistic government of the New Republic brings together. If the provisions you propose today are implemented, twenty - five thousand students will be left out of public university. One out of four children who spent last year won't be entitled to attend school. Do you know what that means? I'll tell you with one example from Evros and the Democritus University of Thrace. According to the information of the Ministry and of the University, in the Department of Rural Development in the Extreme Orestiad, the number of importers from the two forty-five who were this year, with the new law that will apply if you vote for it, and according to the best forecasts, the number of importers will fall to thirty. I repeat, of the two hundred forty-five young people invaded, the number will fall to thirty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u454	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u455	Accordingly, the ninety-seven entrants in the Department of Forestry, who are also in Orestiad, after the vote of today's bill, will be from zero to twenty. You realise that with zero incomings these departments will not work. And you know, the low bases do not correspond to the quality or level of study, but with the distance from the centers. Because most students live in Athens, the largest population, and has high costs in a time of crisis to go to distant regional universities. But you have not made sure that you strengthen the economy so that children can go to good regional universities, you have made sure to close them. Why? Because they have a low base without considering why they have a low base. Similarly, it will be appalling to reduce the number of people admitted to the Nursing Twins, which, from the first day that this government took over, leads to the closure of this school, while we had the highest level of this school, since you have reduced the number of people admitted to this school as well. By the way, on SYRIZA, we had designed together with the Democritus University to set up nine new departments. You've frozen these, you're still looking at them. What's the development for the Thrace you're thinking about? The Government of New Democracy leads to an unprecedented shrinkage, an unprecedented genocide - if I may say so - of higher education especially in the region, and that is your aim and plan, the shrinkage, the deterioration of public education. And you know, universities in the region also contribute in particular to the educational and cultural level and to the social level and to work. So I wonder how my fellow New Democracy Members will vote - with pride, as they have already said - on closing university departments in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, your hatred for the new generation is also photographed in other provisions, such as the depreciation that will occur for the high school graduation, the restriction of academic freedoms and the institutions' self-employed, the punishment of students with "n+2". That's punishable. You do not know the needs of the workers, the needs of the students, the needs of the region. There is still the exclusion of candidates from the Spanish high school, people who work at the same time, and yet want to go to university, to broaden their knowledge, but also to limit the students of the PESA to PES and others. In conclusion, and I thank you for the tolerance, Mr President, I would like to make another comment on the university police, which has been so debated. University Police: It sounds oxymomile even the phrase. University Police. Your aim is neither the order nor the fight against crime, because there are adequate laws and institutional frameworks to combat any crime, which exists mainly outside the field of universities and not within them. Our universities are safe spaces. They're learning spaces. They are safe spaces and may be congressors, along with the staff they have, manage whatever problem they have. And if necessary, there is the institutional framework for the police and the competent authorities to intervene. So your goal isn't class. Your aim is to impose, control, fear, horror, repression, thinking limitation, restricting rights. It's more morbid, it's deeper, more undemocratic what you're presenting. Yes, Minister, the universities need care - we have all agreed on this - but not police. Prison by university staff, as is happening throughout the world, as is happening in Europe. But something else is needed. They need to be personal. They need teachers. They need equipment. They need support and support policies. And they presuppose a political leadership of knowledge, vision, progressive thought, democratic reflexes, interest and concern for youth and a plan for the future of this country and society. And you have allergy to these concepts, following an anti-democratic, anti-social catastrophe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept this point to close the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-09-S1-commons.u457	With the consent of the House at 22.36' the meeting is closed for Wednesday 10 February 2021 and 10.00' on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny; b) legislative work; continuing to discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "Introduction to higher education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading of the academic environment and other provisions".
