ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION: According to Parliament's approval from 16 to 2021, the minutes of its meeting of Tuesday 16 November 2021 concerning: 1 (a) the vote on the Draft Budget for Parliament, for the financial year 2022; and (b) the adoption of the Parliament's Expenditure Report, for the financial year 2020 and the Annex thereto (Report 2020 from the Parliamentary Institute for Parliament and the Republic) and]] Reference will be made here to the anniversary of 17 November on the insurrection of the Polytechnic. Today is a historic day on the occasion of the completion of forty-eight years since the Polytechnic uprising in 1973. The Polytechnic insurrection in November 1973 was the top of a series of events against the colonel junta and marked the beginning of the seven-year-old dictatorship. On November 14, 1973, proclaiming abstention from class students began to gather in the yard of the Polytechnic. Their main request was education, freedom and democracy. The increasing crowd at the Polytechnic University could not be suppressed by the dictatorship's police forces. On the day of November 17, the dictatorship's army took over the battle. The result was dead, many injured and thousands arrested. The dictatorship of Papadopoulos was overturned by dictator Ioannides and then followed by the tragic events in Cyprus. The dictatorship, of course, collapsed definitively in 1974, when the democratic city returned to our country led by Constantine Karamanlis. Today, November 17, 2021, Polytechnic Memorial Day, we remember the thousands of young people who strongly resisted the dictatorship and fought for freedom, democracy, social justice, better education and work, with their weapons of unity, philosophy and determination. The Polytechnics is a milestone in the modern history of our country. The uprising was a massive and dynamic manifestation of youth. It was an act that united all political forces. The slogan "bread, education, freedom" was universally accepted. The Greek people's hope was expressed in the person of the students to overthrow the lawless regime and consolidate the democratic parliamentary culture. The Polytechnic's message must be made clear to the next generations without party distortions and is, of course, summarized in the need to defend democracy and its institutions. The Polytechnic as a symbol of memory reminds us that nothing is given and that freedom requires constant vigilance. Every time she has her own challenges to face. Different times require different sacrifices. I am sure that today's new generation has the soul and vision to fight and overcome the challenges of our own times to build the life it deserves, stepping on the foundations of democracy and freedom. Thank you very much. The President of Parliament will now be given the floor, Mr Konstantinos Tsoulas, and then the representatives of all the parties in the House. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I endorse your intervention for today's historic anniversary of the Polytechnic uprising, which is primarily the work of Greek youth, the leading anti-Seven-year dictatorial act. An episode this morning, which prevented a delegation of the House from tabling a crown within the department of the Polytechnic, compels me to condemn this behaviour of some unscrupulous and unacceptable citizens, young people, unfortunately, happily few people, who considered that they had to stop the House delegation under Mr Athanasios, the Vice-President, from tabling a wreath on current policy grounds. The Polytechnics is an important incident in the history of the country and it is not a prize for any dragon, no small or larger group, which claims it to be proclaimed against other groups. Right now that we're talking about the image outside the main gate of the Polytechnic, the one that piled down the tyranny tank, is hideous. There's a kind of face control and they're struggling about who's allowed and who's not allowed to enter a public pilgrimage area. Are you going to tell me such incidents, such micro-discretions, such behaviours tarnish the historical gravity and timelessness of a top event? They tarnish our lives, tarnish our everyday life, our mood. They tarnish our optimism that we must finally overcome everything that entangles us and confront historical events in the face. The first picture that convinced the world community that Greece has a dictatorship is the image of the Greek Parliament at the dawn of April 21, '67, surrounded by tanks. And the first picture that convinced the world community that democracy was restored in Greece is Parliament's image surrounded by tens of thousands of enthusiastic citizens at the dawn of July 24, 1974, celebrating the restoration of democracy due to the return of Constantine Karamanlis. Parliament, on one hand, and on the other, symbolised the grief and indignation of its abolition, the hope and optimism of its reopening. And this Parliament, through its representatives, felt that it was right to prevent it from happening today. I feel the need to say that the greatest insult of a totalitarian regime and a totalitarian mentality, which often also has such a culture in non-absolute regimes, the greatest insult, therefore, is not only the cessation of freedom, the abolition of rights, oppression, torture - all of which are appalling - but a leading insult is that they do not recognise the right and the ability and the dignity of a people to self-determine. Democracy is the city where the people define themselves. Those who abolish it are insulting the people because they do not consider them worthy, intelligent, sufficient, capable of self-determination. And those who offend the national Parliament, the people's delegation, question the right of a people in democracy to selfdeterminate themselves. And they question not only the right but also the ability and intelligence of a people to define themselves. They want to take the helmets because they consider the people unworthy, unworthy of his delegation to be self-determined. Criticism in a democracy, if we want to be democratic and loyal to democracy, is even better democracy than non-democracy. The criticism of a parliament is not to prevent its delegation from tabling a wreath, because, anyway, Mr Athanasios, who, as a graduate of law, lived in close proximity to the events of the Polytechnic School, and the colleagues who were with him and the employees' representatives with statements made at the Polytechnic University honoured the memory. So the criticism of a National Representation is not to insult it - why don't you insult it, you insult yourself - is to make sure it becomes even more important, to be represented by even greater ones. And if you can, young man, who you are questioning this city, question it by doing it better than by force that you can - or so - stop it. From the dawn of July 24, '74, thanks to the Polytechnic at this leading event, the National Representation, the Greek Parliament is the place where the Greek people are represented, with the mistakes, with the omissions and with the right ones. Our debt, vis-à-vis the Polytechnic and vis-à-vis those who fought in there and were sacrificed and put at risk, is in democracy, with our contradictions and our compositions to care for the improvement of the life of the Greek people, even this little dragon of the fifteen - twenty-four young people who today did not insult democracy, ignored them by ignoring that they were in the way they were harassed by the Greek people in the face of the representatives of the Parliament. The Polytechnics will define us, guide us and lead us to a lasting improvement in the democratic culture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u3	We too thank the President of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Tsouula. As I said before, the floor will now be taken by fellow Members who have been appointed by the party groups. First I will give the floor to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou - Peter Spanakis, whom I call on the Step. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are honouring in this Chamber of the Greek Parliament a historic day, a day of memory, a day that belongs to everyone, belonging to the Greek people, who is a day of gratitude. Forty-eight years ago, on November 17, 1973, the Polytechnic insurrection peaks. Prior to February and March, the two occupations of the Law School, as well as the Navy Movement on May 23. A few months later, in July 1974, democracy returned to the country forever. We must never forget, it is our duty. That the principles of democracy are identical with Greece. I borrow the lyrics of Yannis Ritchos to describe the time of that uprising. "Good children, with big eyes as churches without a ravine. Nice children, ours, with the great tribulation of men undone, standing in the Propylaea, in the stone air ready for hand, ready for eye. How the boi grows, the step and the palm of man." All of us have engraved indelibly the lyrics of Kostillas Metroulou in composition of Manos Loizos "The road had its own story". That's how we grew up, if you like. We know well, however, that this road is a timeless one, as is the message of the Polytechnic anniversary. Then he pointed the way for freedom. There is now a different road, a road to freedom from a major health crisis with serious health and economic consequences. The road is engraved for our freedom from the coronary pandemic. In this difficult period for the whole world, a period of almost two years when we were called upon to manage an unprecedented situation, we were called upon to review our priorities and our certaintys, the values of democracy, freedom and respect for human rights remain unnecessarily committed. We are also honouring the Polytechnics School this year in its own way. We protect public health and our lives. We trust the scientists. We are working together with all the political forces for the sake of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, today we know that the Polytechnic message is being moved from generation to generation, creating young people who respect democracy, who love freedom, who fight for progress and technological development, young people who wish to live in a country of democracy, in a country that is modern, on the path of development, with modern education, with a social state and a national health system, with equality and merit. The polytechnic youths then taught us an important and resounding message, a message for unity, brotherhood, consensus. They said then "No to violence. End of splitting.’ Young people, students and students united as a fist had a unique common struggle. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are honouring the leading resistance to the dictatorship. We pay tribute to democracy, we honour parliamentarianism. It is a great honour to be elected members of the Greek Parliament. Price and responsibility! It is our common place that democracy, freedom, opposition to fascism and all authoritarian regimes beyond and outside parties, political and ideological choices. "A tyrannical and erroneous regime in which this country rises," he described the dictatorship of the colonists as "Constantine Karamanlis". A dictatorship which banned the music of Mikis Theodorakis, by decree, who severely tortured the fighter Andreas Ledakis. Today the Greek Parliament honors the young people of the Polytechnic. He honors their fighters and their struggles. It honors those who have lost their lives and those who have been tortured for freedom. I close with the words of the late Mikis Theodorakis, who spoke on April 23, 1967: “Our hearts are burning fire hate for the tyranns. The catalysts of the Constitution, the rapists of democracy, the enemies of freedom, the traitors of the nation who believed that they would force our unscrupulous people to kneel down, let them be sure that soon they will tremble before the anger of the giant Greek people. And then there will be no corner of the Greek land to hide them! In the country where democracy was born, tyrants die!'
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Spaniard. It is now the reason, after the Step sanitary order has been settled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance, my fellow Member, Mr Theodoros Dritsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the House, you did well to comment on what happened a while ago at the gate of the Polytechnic, both to the representatives of the Greek Parliament and to the representation of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. I think that if the House has a message to send out about the uprising in November - and that can be said more than anyone else before, and before any other, the protagonists of this uprising or anyone who has the strictest or even the most correct criticism of the modern parliamentary system - it is that it cannot be ignored that history with the great interventions of society itself at such times as the November uprising writes major changes and major conquests, which go beyond what you have just said, Mr President, 'current political juncture'. And in this sense, it cannot be ignored at all that the junta abolished Parliament and that the Polytechnic insurrection has opened the way for the reopening of Parliament and for the functioning and reintroduction of the Parliamentary Republic, with all the horizons open, even more and more essential for the realisation and conquest of the real idea of a democratic society with equality, justice and freedom of all, without discrimination and inclusiveness. The targeting, which is a message from November, cannot create rights to anyone to choose property to whom the Polytechnic belongs. The Polytechnic belongs to the generation that did it. The University belongs to Greek history and the prospect of this society, this people and this country. And from this point of view, I think that the Greek Parliament must stand up to such events, without upgrading them and magnifying them, but also without integrating them into the current political context. Allow me, following this invasive intervention, to enter, on the side of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and President Alexis Tsipras, at the honour of the parties and the Greek Parliament in the uprising of November forty years ago. The durability of this anniversary is admirable and taught. Forty-eight years after November 1973, Polytechnic days come alive again, moved and motivate, rescind memories and cultivate hopes, give the dogma to young insurrection societies. Then witnesses and protagonists may be shortened because they are subjected to the deterioration of time, but memory resists and becomes a collective experience, mouth-to- mouth, generation and generation. The polytechnic uprising forty - eight years later does not require myths. Its power and dynamics are the truth, authenticity and lack of feasibility. It's authentic and immeasurable, like any such genuine uprising. This is why the Polytechnics has the durability in time, and neither is it to be destroyed nor to become a museum species nor of course to be forged nor to need exaggerations to excite, even though such efforts in many respects are constantly being made. But they're failing. It is no coincidence that he does not have heroes this huge historical event, while there were heroes, as were dead. From this point of view, it is noteworthy to note how the Polytechnic is living while not being taught. Our history, rich in huge events not only in terms of heroism, but also in terms of large and modern sections, changes, at every historical juncture, is taught in schools. But, in the way he is taught, the essence of historical events is more often lost. The same - very much so in the way that the official state organises - and well does - the national anniversaries as a price and an opportunity to stimulate mind and national coexistence. Polytechnic as a historical event is not taught in schools. The official state does not take over the anniversary. It is organized by the student clubs, the National Metsovio Polytechnic, which owns the place of sacrifice and the struggle symbolically and truly. Patisias street, the centre of Athens to the Vineyards, until the Syntagma, until Vathi Square, until Patisias, all the spaces that apart from the Polytechnic site, were insurrection areas, especially on the third day of major events. That is why the historical importance of this anniversary is not being transferred to the new generation as a lesson. It is carried as a witness, narrative, oral testimony to mouth, from generation to generation, from time to time. That's why he gets this time-resistance. When the poem is carried in this wonderful way, people and especially young people, even if they don't match the protagonists, with the faces, make their story theirs. The Polytechnic triple was condensed in this famous "bread - education - freedom". It makes sense because the new generation of health never put her on her first priority, because she has life ahead of her. But in fact this lasting and time-long strategic demand is a powerful today, as it was last year and before, as it will be next year, but it must finally be justified and quadruple, 'bread - health - freedom', resilient, timely, shaped terms of historical intimacy, which each generation feels with the fact. It also becomes its own symbolic burden, which is mixed with the past, with the present and with the future. Regardless of the course and options that will follow every man in the future, it is certain - we have seen it in practice - that he will keep a separate place in his heart the emotion he felt when as a child and as a teenager became a communist of the messages of this uprising, even when he left his own flower, accompanied by his parents or classmates in the Polytechnic Monument. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been written about the Polytechnic and even more has been said. Writing and saying, no matter what it is, cannot exhaust the meaning and meaning of this great rebellion. This also gives the Greek Parliament an obligation to honour every year this day, not as an opportunity to express formal festivities, but as an opportunity to reflect, as an opportunity to highlight meanings of the special importance of this historic event. So let us honour as a Parliament of the Greeks on this day as it deserves, with a deep, simple and humbly reason for expectation, which shows the most important reason, namely that while the Polytechnics is historically fully justified and its conquests are very great, its strategic goals, 'bread - education - health - freedom', remain largely tragically unjust and cause for this reason every generation for its own pluralities. After all, let's not forget that Eric Hobsbaum, historian and philosopher, has defined it as a wise wording of firm hope, "The only sure law in history is the surprise". An honor to the rebels!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement, my fellow Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, history plays a number of strange games, speeds up or slows down political time, highlights or attempts to smack the folk factor as a shaper of its course, creates generations of heroic and symbolic and respectable, especially in a country where normality was the exception and not the norm in our modern history. Because during the uprising of the Polytechnic School, which we are honouring today, the change in favour of the democratic normality that we have experienced in the past fifty years has begun, in spite of the crises that we have experienced and experienced, despite any tensions. The Polytechnic as a historical event, but also with what it represents at political or national level, has been targeted at those who want to erase the historical collective memory and rewrite the history, all those who are convenient to all kinds of materials in their parliamentary groups, even if they have worn the suit of parliamentaryism. Some claimed that there were no dead in the Polytechnic insurrection. The relatives, however, of Diomedes Konninos, Vassilis Famellos, Catherine Argyropoulou, Giorgos Geritsidis, Mark Karamanis, Royal Bekair, Torill Margret Engeland, and the tens of others who have been killed by prostitutes of state or in a vicious state of para-state mechanisms in those days of glory and terror, are still here with us and remind us of them. Their presence and memory are necessary because it is dissuasive for all those who perpetrate the question, trying to kill for the second time - this time in memory - people who gave their lives for democracy. The slandering effort continued with the excellence of the polytechnic generation for all the sufferings that have occurred in the country. A whole generation of people were slandered with an offer in the political, social and economic life of the country, the science, the arts and letters, who of course made mistakes, as they are entitled to do without exception, but they did not murder, exiled, tyrannized, lost half of Cyprus. All these efforts are part of the strategy of some to reduce the scope of a grand historical event, to make us forget the way in which the dictatorship came, to forget the historical and political events that preceded the dictatorship, the deliberate political anomaly, the brutal violation of popular sovereignty by the palace and the para-state, but also the conveniently willing to assist these extra-democratic forces, to make us forget that young people were the ones who fought and resisted, signalling the beginning of the end of the dictatorship, a battle with a peak of students against a totalitarian regime that came from the way the supposedly good intentions of the government of George Papandreou were. From the edge of the earth, from the University of Kent to the University of Polytechnic, here, just beyond, the student's brave voices were united, asking for democracy, collectiveity and freedom, to first collect defiance, then violence and finally, cold murders. They fought, however, and gained hope for tomorrow, ours today, the right to a better future, ours now. The Polytechnics, the uprising of law, a democratic rug in the deepest darkness and the acts of resistance that have been preceded are a milestone for our newest political history. They belong to all Greeks and all those who fight for democracy and freedom. And obviously, they do not belong to those with anti-parliamentary and anti-democratic practices, such as those we have seen today, who consider that they respect the concept and values of the Polytechnic insurrection. Because no one can be prevented from paying tribute to the fighters of a popular uprising that was the beginning of democracy and freedom in our country. Because it is very important to remember that the beginning of the end of the junta came through the mobilisation of thousands of anonymous people, mostly fighters, who made their debt to their homeland and democracy, in the homeland that gave birth to democracy, people who spoke with history and actually wrote history. Because neither home, nor democracy, are spared. After all, democracy is a matter of permanent struggle, as Andreas Papandreou said. And our own democracy endured the difficult times of the crisis, endured the years of pandemic, and so, it is more mature than ever, because with the difficulties it strengthens. Even today, however, there are forces that want to bring democracy to their measures, to make it controlled, to subordinate it to extra-institutional centres. And here is the debt of our own generation: to permanently give the present in the struggle for the real deepening of democracy, safeguarding the legacy and heavy legacy left by the thousands of fighters at that time. So we are taking the baton today and we continue in their footsteps, because the course for independence, the course for people's sovereignty, the course for social justice and solidarity, particularly the course for democracy, is a difficult road, but there is no other way, and this way we continue to open it by walking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the MEP and Vice-President of the House, Mr George Lambroulis, speaks on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the heroic student and labouring populace forty-eight years ago at the Polytechnic University was the culmination of the anti-dictarian struggle of people and youth. The JRC honors the struggles of those who stood up against the dictatorship, communists and all the other radical fighters confronted with the horror of torture in the EBA dungeon, who were closed in prisons and exiles, who suffered all forms of persecution, as well as the struggle for youth, students and students of anti-DAC. The particular importance of the Polytechnics is that student uprising has directly concentrated on the active solidarity of thousands of workers and other peoples in the most important urban centres, in the form of a fight against the armed people against the armed mechanisms of the urban state. The uprising of the Polytechnic University, although painted in the blood, finally incorporated the plans of the so-called liberation of the junta that knew the support or tolerance of urban and opportunistic political forces. He contributed along with the subsequent coup d'état in Cyprus and the Turkish invasion following the transition from the military dictatorship to the civil Parliamentary Republic of July 1974. The coup d'état of April 21, 1967, and the military dictatorship, although attempting to be presented by part of the bourgeois political world as the work of some of the bourgeois officers or as a result of the state of the right and others, was one of many forms of capital power chosen according to the respective priorities and needs of the bourgeoisie in relation to domestic and international relation and always with the aim of armoring and perpetuating its power. So the dictatorship did not take place with a view to combating anarchy and dealing with the communist risk. Those were the pretexts. It was done and imposed to overcome problems and conflicts that were escalated into the urban system of the parties of the time and the fatigue figures presented in their ability to manipulate, incorporate the working people's masses, but also the needs to reform structures and mechanisms of the urban state, because the dictatorship could have banned the operation of the legal parties at the time, closed Parliament, temporarily and bourgeois politicians, but served in the best of the overall interests of the bourgeoisie at that time. At the same time, experience from both dictatorship and over time from domestic and international history shows that anti-communism has always gone hand in hand with the most overall attack on the freedoms, rights and conquests of the working people. In addition, anti-communism, which was the official ideology of the junta and the suppression of the working people's movement, were more comprehensive features of the post-war bourgeois system, while anti-communism again in every way and through the Step of the Parliament, through the columns of the urban press, through the criminal activity of neo-nazi gangs, with the unequal equation of communism - fascism. Forty-eight years later the slogans from the Polytechnic uprising for "bread - education - freedom", "outside NATO" "outside the US" remain always timely. They are a link between the Polytechnic insurrection and modern struggles and are a key criterion for the honesty and consistency of every political power towards the Polytechnic. The celebration of the Polytechnic can be another link in the labour struggle for education and work in human conditions, for measures to protect the health and life of the people, for income and decent life, for opposition to any anti-virtual, anti-lingual law, for condemning the imperialism and dismissal of our country by the transnational imperialist associations, for no participation in the planned imperialist interventions. After all, what the working people won over time won it by following the struggle, against capitalist governments and employers. The very story of class struggle in Greece and around the world shows that as long as there is human exploitation nothing is given by the ruling ruler class, it is conquered by struggle against the exploiters their economic sovereignty and political power. The Polytechnic inherited us with great values, without violence, boldness, sacrifice against powerful repressive terrorist mechanisms of the bourgeoisie, as well as faith in the power of the organized movement that gives rise to individual and collective heroism. Above all it has inherited our incompatibility, intransigent attitude to all forms of authoritarian and dictatorial governance and at the same time left open accounts for the people, objectives and demands that have been left unfulfilled. We are therefore rightly honouring the anniversary of the Polytechnic School, we are teaching, we are drawing conclusions and we are drawing strength for the organization and development of a powerful labour and popular movement with the mass participation of youth in the first lines towards monopolies until the overthrow of the dictatorship of capital, for a society without man's exploitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Villiandos has the floor. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the revolt of the Polytechnic School, which took place between 14 and 17 November 1973, is a political legend of modern Greece, which marked our collective consciousness with the resonance of the Resistance against a shameful totalitarian regime. The uprising, with its tragic outcome, contributed to the developments that led to the fall of the junta, the change of leadership at first, and unfortunately after the tragedy of Cyprus. Finally, what had been predicted by the great Greek of the 1930s, George Seferis, who had said this just before his death: "Everyone has learned it and know it in the dictatorial situations the beginning can be easy, but the tragedy remains, waits, unavoidable at the end. The drama of this end afflicts us consciously or unconsciously as in the Pampereian dances of Aeschulus. The longer the anomaly remains, the more evil goes on. I see the cliff in front of me, which leads us to the oppression that covered the place. This anomaly has to be stopped. It is a national check." Unfortunately, it was not heard. Continuing, 17 November has also remained an inspiration for acts of violence, political careers and party rituals. We will not, however, deal with them either with interpretations and misinterpretations about who was inside the Polytechnic and who was not. The reason is that, apart from historical events, 17 November is an expression of reaction from many that Greek history has to demonstrate, as well as the anti-judgmentary struggle, such as the occupation of law, etc. And young people in the Polytechnic insurrection can today be middle-aged, political and entrepreneurial representatives, others more important and more radical, while the junta seems unreal, a sad memory we would say with today's data. However, faces and conditions may change, but situations often remain the same, changing only their way of manifestation. In particular, the authoritarian regime of then may have been transformed into the current restriction of our constitutional freedoms for reasons of public health safety or anything else. After all, many tragedies have taken place in the name of the general good, while, when fascism takes a new form, perhaps legal, of limiting our freedom, it is difficult to oppose it. We recall, here, that the Prime Minister of the Constitutional Government, the former Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, Konstantinos Kollias, said in his proclamation: "This intervention, of course, is a diversion from the Constitution, but this diversion was necessary for the salvation of the patron". The dictator Papadopoulos had stated in his first interview that his purpose was to save Greece by using, perhaps not by accident, medical parallels. As he said, "We are in the presence of a patient who is on the surgical bed." And Elytis, whose poems were carved by Mickey Theodorakis, also decorated the revolt of the polytechnics, wrote: "It is barbarism. I see her disguised under unfair alliances and pre-agreed entanglements. This is not about Hitler's ovens, perhaps, but about drunken and quasi-scientific subjugation of man. For his complete humiliation. For his disgrace.’ We should therefore not take a static view on 17 November, as on all the other national anniversaries. It may have faded out in older ages, it may seem far away from black and white photographs and videos of the time. But the demands, the pulse still exist today, and there will also be in the future. They are the demands for bread, education, freedom and then, while resurrected in 2010, with the crime of the memorials. Requests for a better future of our own, our children and our homeland that was lost with the mortgage of Greece to its lenders for ninety years. It is the recovery of what Mickeys Theodorakis summarised in 2015, with the following words: "First, the tradition of our national sovereignty to foreigners. Secondly, the universal commitment of the public property of our country and thirdly, the ban on the exercise of national economic and foreign policy." In these words of Mikis Theodorakis, with the timely demand for democratic freedoms, as well as the obligation to recover from us our economic independence, without which there is no national sovereignty, we honor the struggle of pure young people and all Greek citizens at the Polytechnics. We pay particular tribute to the dead and other victims of the Polytechnic in their struggle for democracy, for bread, education and freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Fotini Bakadima, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left -Nordic Green Left, Mrs Fontaine, on behalf of the Group of the European United Left -Nordic Green Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of memory, a day of respect, a day of recognition of the importance of the struggle. Forty-eight years have been completed since the Polytechnic uprising, since that day that gave the charismatic shot and led the junta where she had to and ended in the black seven years. With the message of the students and students of the Greek people, in 1973, about "bread - education - freedom" to become more timely than ever, we honor both the insurgents of the Polytechnic and today's fighters for dignity and independence. Who are these fighters today? They are the distributors of "eFOD" and "WOLT", are the workers of "COSCO", who, by winning a first fight against the Chinese colonist, continue their struggle. It is our youth that requires deep education and not engineering training. They're the nurses and medical staff. There are all those people who worked in supermarkets, delinquents, all the people who from the first moment, from whatever time they are next to all of us and help either save lives, when we talk about nurses and medical staff, either by keeping shops for the first time, in the first period of pandemic and in general, openly so that all of us can buy the goods we need. Especially doctors and nursing staff are saving our lives by operating against the government depreciation of the ESS. Last are the fighters and all those activists who save refugees against one day and more xenophobic state. Fortunately for our society, the list of everyday fighters is longing daily with young people added to it. The Greeks and Greeks have always resisted and opposed all threats to all those who have affected and affected whatever form they take in every time of our long history democracy, education, self-determination and freedom. The generation of the Polytechnic, the fighters for "bread - education - freedom" symbolize the timeless ability of our people to take their luck in their hands and undefeated to eliminate dependency, indulgence and above all fear. We honor them today, honoring all the heroes of everyday life, respecting the certainty that no matter how heavy the burden of resistance and disobedience our people will always be ready, as they have long been, to fight for a better, free tomorrow for the best future we owe to the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Ladies and gentlemen, the report was completed on the anniversary of 17 November on the revolt of the Polytechnic. I would ask here that we keep a minute of silence in memory of the fighters and the victims of the Polytechnic and Democracy. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Stylianos Ioannis Koutnazis, informs us that the number 173/12-11-2021, 180/15-11-2021 and 181/15-11-2021 topical questions, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Georgios Stylos, and by Nos 182/15-11-2021 and 188/15-11-2021 topical questions, will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr. We are starting the debate with the first item number 173-12-11-2021 on the first question from the Member of the Messinia Parliament, Mr Pericles Mandas, on the subject of the Corinthian raisin protection. Mr. Mada, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is true that pandemic has hit the main sector in the past eighteen months. Many of our products have been financially pressed, so our producers are in a difficult situation. Our Government and your Ministry have been next to the producers all along with an unprecedented multi-million-euro support programme for the majority of the products tested. And with aid to both producers and other European Commission programmes you have managed to keep up important parts of primary production throughout the country upright. The raisin, this emblematic product of high and high nutritional value, about the history of which I do not need to tell you, has been under considerable pressure because of the pandemic and the closure of the markets around the planet. It is a product which is very high exportable. It was concentrated in large quantities, so that it could not come out on the markets and export. These quantities were mainly held and still held by the Panayialion, an association of cooperatives, which is pioneering throughout the grape process and which has contributed significantly in the last 10 years to the development of the product and the recovery of its position on the world market. Since May we have warned the Ministry that this overconcentration of the reserve will create a major problem at the 2021 harvest, that is, in the summer that passed us, because, as we all understand it, it will be the backbone for prices to be humiliated, to fall below the cost price and our producers to come in a difficult situation. On 14 June I asked you a question: 'What does the government intend to do and how will it support the product?' I didn't get an answer. On 23 June you scheduled a teleconferencing conference with stakeholders involving regional directors, MPs, cooperatives, producers, producers, and there the Ministry raised the question that it could not make a programme for withdrawing the reserve because Europe did not foresee it and that at some point there would be aid to producers. The problem was constantly growing. On 16 July, in a meeting with Panayialioli Union, the Minister - committed both parties and recognised that there is a problem - asked Panayialioli to submit two figures: firstly, to prove that the stocks exist, as was done with a sworn accountant, and secondly, to ask them for a legal opinion showing that the Ministry can carry out a withdrawal programme. In July 2021 the Panayialioli Union submitted these two figures. The Ministry's commitment was that it will come back to see exactly what has happened and how it can help. And we arrive on November 5, 2021, a few days ago, on the eve of the rally decided by our farmers from all over the western and southern Peloponnese to protest, to an announcement from the Ministry that it finally said that the Ministry decided to send a request to the European Commission to request a withdrawal programme for this product.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u18	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u19	Allow me, Mr President. Minister, all this time with statements made by the Minister on 13 July, on 7 September, 14 September, he declared through the House but also in his public interviews that the reserve programme is not a commercial issue in which the Ministry of Rural Development cannot be involved, that we support the producers. Anyway, he was trying to get out of the Ministry's obligations, even though the opinion we submitted to you says that only withdrawals can you do nothing else to save the product. We have reached a point at the moment we are talking about where the ministry shows that it has come to this position. But I would like you to tell us what the Ministry has finally decided, what the timetable is, and what the chances are that all this work you are doing with the European committee on a withdrawal programme will be, and when exactly it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u20	The Minister has the floor, Mr Stylus, to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague you know very well about this and we have discussed it personally and the Minister of Lebanon has spoken on several occasions as you have mentioned. And I was here a few days ago in the House, and I answered another question, Member of the Representation. I would therefore like to remind you of some of the elements I had at the time given to the Member who, in practice, demonstrate that our ministry supports the producers and supports the raisin. I say and repeat: Rape producers have already received aid through repayable advances of more than EUR 2.5 million. It's a good amount. Also through the coupled support for Corinthian raisin cultivation, about five and a half thousand producers have been paid the sum of about EUR 4 million. In addition, the Panayial Cooperative Union, through its repayable advances and aid due to COVID for 2020, has received a support of 820 thousand euros. That is the money that has been given specifically for the raisin so far. You also know that the Ministry can only give the producers money and we have made sure that there is money so that we can be given to producers because we want to support producers. That is another reason why, in order to be able to provide the money and to be a legitimate payment, we should have approval by the European Commission. So we have made sure that there is a sum at the end, but to make it available and go to the producers we must have the approval of the European Commission. Furthermore, you know that the Christmas season begins where the market opens and we expect the next time we have positive moves from the market. If we are currently calling for specific funding to be approved by the European Commission, you know that in the end the producer will be forced more. The problem is known and we have said it to all tons and to all the forums where there are official procedures. In addition, with regard to the withdrawal, notices have been made earlier than our Ministry and recently by the Minister on his visit to Mytilini, where he left an open window, but still there we have to go to an exception. That's all for now. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Mada, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the general support you mentioned to me for the raisin is obviously something that is very positive, but all producers have received it for all products and products, even for products, because of the pandemic and because of the COVID to strengthen. Therefore, it is not an argument that, because farmers have received repayable advances, we should not support the raisin as a product because of COVID. Because returnable advance payments have also been made by the oil producers, who have taken extra money, they have also taken potatoes, fruit growers and all the products that you have done very well and supported during the pandemic and saved their producers and crops. Second, to understand, I think you're getting us into more trouble today. I know that even though it is not your responsibility, you are certainly trying to respond from the Ministry. So what's the Ministry's decision? Are we asking for a withdrawal programme from the European Commission, or are we going to support the producers? It's two different things. The Minister yesterday made a press release and told Europe to his counterparts that "I am looking for a withdrawal plan, to activate the withdrawal clause, to withdraw this stock so that the producer's price can come to the right level". Are we going to support this? And I would like to say this: after six months we ask Europe for a withdrawal programme. Why didn't we do it last semester? The response of this request from Europe to the Ministry will come in two or three months from today. And I'm telling you that Europe is coming in January and says turn it into a withdrawal programme. What are we gonna pull out of here? You know, right now that we're talking about the product, it doesn't have a price, does it have a zero? It cannot be sold by the producer, the printer private and the association do not give a price to the producer. From 1.60 last year it was sold an average of 0.80 minutes to 0.90 minutes, i.e. below the cost. What market would open up and who would be compensated? Who will take responsibility for all this process? Minister, one is the solution and we have given it to you in the opinion we have given you. Withdrawal programme with national resources and notification to the European Commission. It is absolutely legal both by our national law and by Union law. It solves the problem tomorrow morning with the least possible losses. We keep the producers standing, we keep the cooperative associations up, we support whoever has the stock and at the same time solve the problem forever for next year. You know very well that, if you come and strengthen the price to the producer, the problem is partly solved because of the time or price of the product will start at the already accursed price this year. The only solution is to withdraw from national resources with a notification to the European Commission. It is perfectly legal both to us and to the Union's law. Look, please, and tell me what you intend finally to do, so that we can also inform the farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u25	Mr Manda, I understand the point you raise and understand the need in the world, in the producers and in the Union to know what is going to happen and what exactly has to happen. It's like you said. I shall submit to the minutes the press release issued by our Ministry yesterday because it was a meeting of the Ministers for Agriculture of the European Union. There, therefore, on a number of specific issues relating to other areas in the current situation for our Ministry and for the production process of our country, the Minister raised the issue and raised the issue of raisin. So I read you exactly what we say in the press release and submit it to the Minutes so that the producers can also be informed through the House. The Minister therefore added that the vertical reduction in HORECA’s sales due to pandemic combined with the reduction of market interest by traditional buyers of the product, such as the United Kingdom, have caused serious problems in the situation of that market, resulting in the accumulation of unused stocks and the bad position of producers. I'm tabling this in the Minutes, you know. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, George Stylos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The regulation is clear and clear. I disagree with what you said, that it is legal to withdraw. So the Minister raised the matter and asked us to make an exception to the regulation. We are therefore waiting for this development and we are committed as a political leadership of the Ministry to run these procedures quickly and to have the answers as soon as possible, and not to go far behind and move the problem over the next year. I filed it in the Minutes. I have nothing else to say for now. We expect the answer to this issue and always have a stated and clear position that there is money that we can make available - and we will make available - to the producer directly, but always with the approval of the European Commission. Thank you very much. We will be in communication and cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u26	The fourth question under number 180/15-11-2021 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis will be discussed to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Aattendance of the demands of the farmers of the Municipality of Agia". Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I transfer the demands recently made by the farmers of the Municipality of Agia, Larisa, claiming self-evident, the right to stay in their fields, on their land, to produce. They're giving a survival match. And what do they demand from the government? They are calling for solutions to the acute and accumulated problems they face and, of course, lead them to the continuing shrinking of their income and thus to despair and uncertainty about the future. In the face of this situation, therefore, they have come to be added - and indeed it is the drop that has broken out of the glass of indignation, anger - the publications in the media, according to which the government intends to leave apples, chestnuts and almonds out of aid. Secondly, at the same time, the apples of Agia are exempted from the government's plans to aid the consequences of the pandemic and the measures on the coronary. It is known that the production of apples, sold, sold at degrading prices or correspondingly left unreserved in refrigerators, i.e. in the hands of producers, thus reducing their income. Thirdly, the advance payments for the frost on April 9 are in many cases unfair and degrading, rather than paying all the compensation that must be substantial. So the questions, Mr President, to the Minister are: First of all, is it the government's intention - and this is where a clear answer is needed, Mr Minister - to leave out of related aid for apples, chestnuts and almonds? Secondly, what measures will be taken to incorporate the Aegean apples into aid products due to the pandemic, to pay all the compensation for the April frost and, of course, to satisfy the legitimate requests of farmers for the link between the subsidy and actual livestock production, to reduce the huge cost of production, duty-free oil to all farmers, lower guaranteed prices, to change ELGA's unacceptable regulation, in order to insure and compensate 100% of production and capital from all natural or healthal causes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. The Minister now has the floor, Mr Stylus, for his answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Vice-President, Mr Papoutsis, you have raised a number of issues. I do not think time is enough to answer all these issues in detail. I will try to give answers, however, very specific, to you too, but also to inform producers and farmers. In relation to the related aid - it is the first issue you raised - in terms of apples, you know that we are in the period when we are discussing the new common agricultural policy - for the next period, for 2023-2027. Central guidelines have already been decided at the ministerial level last June, and we are now in consultation here in our country, to reach the national plan, which will be a homogeneous and coordinated approach at European level. For this reason, the Ministry, the political leadership, every week we are in consultation at the headquarters of every region of the country and may also be in other prefectures. It is a process that has now been taking place for the national plan lately. This includes related aid. In this dialogue process, which had begun since 2018, they ended in June 2021 at European level, and now we have the national arm, a consultant, a model of counsellors from the university, from a private company, from the Ministry's departments, who have made an analysis of the proposals for products that can be included in the related or not to be included in the aid. These proposals are in public consultation right now. So everyone, and the apple producers, can write their own remarks and comments. The decisions will be taken by the end of the year. There will also be information to the committee responsible and the House on the related aid. The criteria set by the consultant are specific and are at your disposal and at the disposal of all. You can find them online. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Let me just say that at the moment, a total of nineteen products in the country are in the associated aid. The total amount allocated to the related aid each year is EUR 260 million. The proposal - I say it again -, the proposal from the consultant, who has also emerged from the previous government and scientifically doing his analysis, is to go from the nineteen products to eight, taking into account the criteria and objectives that he wants to achieve. We shall, however, have the debate and the debate. All positions and opinions will be taken into account, with documentary evidence. Because there is a need for data to say that apples will be included in the linked aid and that another product will not be included, for example raisin or a third product. In relation to livestock farming, there is particular support for livestock farming. My colleague, Mr Kedicoglou, is here and the State Secretary in charge. He'll answer for the world to be informed. In relation to the frost and compensation for the spring glacier in 2021, we are in the process where, as a whole, 59m euros have been granted in total, according to Law 4820/2021, as advances for the damages recorded by the spring glacier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u30	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u31	I live in these things, and I will return to my dentistry, which I will give more specific answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u33	Let the conclusions of what the Minister says and what will be said in his denture, let the farmers themselves. They were already mobilized on Friday that passed us in a massive, as I said in my protology, a concentration in Agia. Of course, in the next few weeks you will know that they will intensify their struggles and their claims. Minister, you are not responding specifically. In fact, you also made a news about the public dialogue that a number of products will come out of their way. That's what you said. Well, consultation: From whom and with what goal? You're talking about committees, about scientists, and I'm telling you the simple logic that the farmer puts. His income has been depleted. He sells under the cost of production and now they don't give him the connection. And we do not put it unprotected - far away from us - with other areas that, for the same product, apples, which did not create a problem with the associated product. Here on the basis of reports you come and confirm that there is in fact a intention to abolish the link with what this implies for the price of the product concerned and other products and for the lives of the farmers themselves. Secondly, for April's frost they took some money very little and very little after the effects of ice cream on production. And as they ask you to ask, the farmers are asking for 100% compensation for the loss of production and a replacement that means the replacement of their lost income. I also repeat the third request at least as far as the core of the question goes beyond the other issues we are not neglecting. The third question is whether, because of the pandemic, the apples of Agia will be strengthened, namely Agia. A large rural area is a huge production of fruits and other agricultural products, mainly fruits and especially apples. So you haven't answered these three so far. I think you'll answer secondary. As well, tell us what measures you'll take to all the rest of the things that go through the question, such as, for example, the oil that went to one and a half litres. And you come with the announcements last time and you give 50 million to the main-professional farmers. So what are the others? Aren't they children of the same God, because they're making a cut to fill the farm income? They don't burn their own tractor oil? And we're talking all over the territory about four hundred thousand families. However, at the time that the corsets are tight as far as the refund for oil is concerned, which, in 2019, the Prime Minister announced in Larissa's central square in 2019, along with the lowering of the price of fuel to farmers, and you give 50 million, but at the same time every year, you give 370 million to clinical leaders, to major operators, to shipowners, in other words to lower fuel costs, so as to ease them from costs. For farmers only 50 million and that is only about two hundred thousand. Yes, you do the worst. By implementing this deeply anti-agricultural, anti-grassroots policy and the agricultural sector, you also sow division, divide it and reign, among the farmers. Because these 50 million that you give to the two thousand farmers are crumbs as far as oil is concerned. Not to mention the rest. We expect some answers or even some prospect in the direction of resolving these requests made by farmers themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us make it clear: the connection is not abolished. I told you what the proposal is from the counselor. We said we were in dialogue and we would end up at the end of the year. So, then, what you're saying is not true...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u36	The leaks for the apples of Agia, the chestnuts and almonds, where are they from, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u37	I'm telling you again. It's official. We're not talking about leaks. I'm telling you, there's a consultation. Data are uploaded on the Internet. They can enter our Ministry's website and provide their information and write their comments and provide concrete information. Because producers, who know and hurt for their lives and generally for their survival, have evidence and can substantiate them. And whoever is right in the end, here is the political leadership, we will also have a debate and consultation to always end up for the benefit of producers. That's for sure. Now let's go see about the frost, and in particular what's going on about Larissa and Thessaly. Because you have said so too - we have made advances by law, which has been made for the first time by Law 4820/2021. For the first time the Greek Parliament legislated and started the procedure of advances. We said 59,000 euros. I don't know what you think. It's no longer the 'we didn't give' and no more if you look little. But with housewives what is given. In particular, 8,000,000 euros have been paid in the region of Thessaly. In particular, in the Municipality of Agias, advances paid are at EUR 400,000. The payment of all the allowances is expected to be completed by the end of the year, beginning next year. It is a complex process that the producers, with labels, will also be able to assess from the ELGA, and it will then be cleared. In relation to what you say, with 100%, compensation, to no insurance, and to the farmer-insurance system ours, there are rules. It doesn't work arbitraryly. On the basis of these rules, which arise from the ELGA regulation, which has been adopted by law in the Greek Parliament, there are specific limits which can be compensated. This is also the case for all farmers, for those who are of course aware of insurance. Because ELGA's money - you know - is the money of farmers and producers and works reinsurance. We at the Ministry - I will tell you the next question you have - are moving on to the reorganisation of the ELGA. For this reason, there has been a programme agreement with the information society so that there can be an upgrade of the ELGA digital systems and the way the declarations are made, but also the way in which estimates and compensation are made and so that we can find other ways of improving the system, but always keeping the data so that the organisation is sustainable. We will also consider alternative ways of insurance, such as optional and additional. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would like to point out to you this, so that you and all the producers are aware: the first time by this government, by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the same year, the same year has happened to assess and the payments made by the ELGA have been made. Because, so far, in previous years - the figures have not been disputed, you can also look for them through the procedure for the notification of documents - the producers were paid after seventeen months, after two years. And for the first time, the Government concerned financed ELGA with 34 million in July 2020, resulting in the payment of 35% of the single-dose allowances due, with 68 million in compensation for the affected 'January' regions within four months, with 30 million for the year 2021, while by activating the same article it pays the grant retroactively for the years 2011-2017. The Government, therefore, consistently with its obligations vis-à-vis this body, fulfils and has activated Law 3877/2010 for this purpose. In relation to the general measures for producers and for oil, if you like, to answer the next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u38	Yes, Minister, look at your watch too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u39	I'm looking at it. It's a lot of questions. I'll answer the next question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u40	I would remind you that the time is two minutes of prology and three minutes of dentistry for the Member and the Minister is three minutes of prology and three minutes of dentistry. This is a warm request for us to approach it. We continue with our second question with number 181/15-11-2021 on the second question of F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Loves in olive production in Thessaly from the problem of aggression and schinocarpia". Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u41	We are now moving into another product, Mr Minister, namely olive oil, and not just in Thessaly. The question refers to Thessaly and specifically to the acarpest due to the frost in March and April that occurred in the area of the Municipality of Tempus. At the same time, at the same time, this glacier also affected regions in Magnesia from the Lechonia in southern Pelion and of course other areas in Thessaly. In fact, as the farmers themselves say, the oil producers, the frost and the destruction occurred at a time when the crop was expected to be satisfactory, the well-known'ventema'. Let us point out here, Mr President, that we had tabled a question in September concerning other regions of our country in connection with the same problems of insanity due to natural phenomena. In particular, on 16 September we tabled a question as a parliamentary group. We didn't even get a written answer. That is why we are also coming back on the issues of oil producers in Thessaly, but that obviously concerns all producers regardless of the cause, namely whether they were the frost or whether they were the heat - let us say - in Crete and elsewhere. So the questions to the Minister, Mr President, are as follows: What about the objective records of the damage to oil production from the problem of incarpia? What about compensation from the ELGA for small and medium-sized oil producers? And we insist on this at 100% because I have listened to you in the second language of the previous question and I am very sorry, but you know very well that they are not compensated on the basis of the total loss of their income from the loss of their product. One 50% to 60% are paid. That's what ELGA pays. These are the premiums, thus ELGA works, since the state has been decommissioned from funding, as was the case earlier in the ELGA, and it has loaded it all on farmers' insurance contributions, and it also imposes on them this type of compensation which does not reach or cover the lost income from the various disasters that occur. Secondly, in the Rules of Procedure of the ELGA, the request for this anachronistic regulation to be changed is a constant one. At the same time, lower guaranteed prices are guaranteed for olive oil, which naturally covers production costs, so that farmers can also live. How's it going to happen? And the latter, to reduce the cost of production. To abolish VAT on farmland, tools, duty-free oil, a 50% reduction in the price of the agricultural stream. These are the requests from farmers, not only from the olive growers but also from the apple growers, which we discussed in the previous question, from all farmers and from the organised agricultural movement. This is what farmers claim, so that they can stay in their fields, in their lands, to cultivate, to survive, to live. Otherwise, you're driving them over time with your policy and you're the government to unleash.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to give some of the information we have from ELGA, who is doing his job very well. Especially for olive crops, as shown by the labels of the competent branch of ELGA Larissa, they were found to have damaged herbal capital, especially in the regional units of Trikala and Karditsa and less in the Regional Unit of Larissa and Magnesia. Such losses shall be subject to requests from the producers. It started on 8 November and is in progress until 22 November and so far a thousand eight hundred applications have been submitted to the Regional Councils of Trikala and Karditsa. If the conditions laid down in the State Aid Regulation are ultimately met, they may be proposed to be introduced into a programme. In addition, I would like to give some information, because you have put it beforehand, in relation to producers and the costs of production. I would like to tell you what this government is doing for us, and we understand that from our relationship and from the way in which we receive producers and farmers. So the government supports the primary sector at all times, taking a number of measures, such as a new tax scale for natural persons and professional farmers with rates of 9%, instead of 22%. Secondly, a reduction in the tax on agricultural enterprises from 28% which was and applied to the previous government at 22%, a reduction in the tax rate to 80% for legal persons and 55% for natural persons carrying out a rural activity, a suspension of the payment of the solidarity levy, a reduction of three percentage points for insurance contributions for agricultural workers, a reduction in the tax to 10% of the profits of collective agricultural schemes, with the exception of the obligation to pay a trade fee for farmers of a normal scheme. With a majority of the supplies and raw materials of agricultural production remaining at 13%, feed intended for animal production is subject to the over-reduced rate of 6%. It was announced in September by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and is in force. It is applicable to the refund of excise duty on petroleum for 2022 for the first time since 2016 for producers participating in producer groups, in the ‘Symbol agriculture’ programme, in cooperative schemes and for young farmers. From this measure will benefit about two hundred thousand farmers, over twenty-five thousand young farmers, about seventy thousand farmers who are members of producer and cooperative groups and about twenty-five thousand farmers who are members of 'Symbol agriculture'. The aid granted to the country's rural world totals EUR 204 million to deal with the effects of the pandemic. By the end of the year, 164 million euros have been allocated to date and another 40 million will be allocated to various categories of producers and affected sectors of the sector. To these 204 million, please add 258 million euros that have been made through repayable advances to farmers and producers. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. If you sum up all this money, it's half a billion. It's money that went to the producers. That is why I told you that we are being welcomed and spoken, because farmers know that this government really supports them and understands it in their accounts with the money that they get in there. I'll come back to give more evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u44	You'll tell the rest in your dentistry, Minister. Here, Mr Lambroulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u45	Look, we have now heard good announcements from the Minister on the issues of agricultural production and development or the responsibility of the Ministry. The question is specific. Even for livestock subsidies we have heard. We specifically asked about olive growers. I told you this, you've seen it in the question. What do olive growers want, because of their acarpage and their reduction in income from reduced olive production and by extension of olive oil? Support for their income, lost income. What did you do? We refer it back to the question, we read it again. We say - and we say it clearly, we are not hiding - that you gave EUR 30 per acre for those who are mainly professional farmers, yes or no? Yes, that is obviously the point, but to the main occupation of farmers. So what about the others? Others who are not primarily professional farmers, because they have an income from other activities or other work, which exceeds 50 % and something from their total annual income, are therefore not considered as farmers. I told you in the previous question. Are the children of a lower god these oil producers in this regard? The answer here must be clear, Mr President. The ministers cannot come here - I repeat - to announce what they are doing, the millions flying from here and there! Look at the olive growers, go to the apple growers in Agia, tell them to tell you what suffering they're getting into their fields and what debts they're chasing them from everywhere! And not only do they directly related to their production process, but they also have to deal with a tax raid that is currently in existence, not only in this period, but also in previous years, which follows on from their incomes from wild taxation and their carving, not as farmers because of a profession, but as family workers, as homes. These are issues that all of our society is facing, of course, the entire Greek people. So, here, we need concrete measures, we need to support the olive growers too. We're putting a number of requests that I told you before. Is the decision now going to be made? They told you also in Corfu the other day that you went to advertise the CFP and did not get turf for the price of olive oil, and the farmers, and not only in olive oil and olive oil, but in all products, and in apples, are constantly under the nails of predators, big-timers, various middlemen and saying. What is the state's guarantee against the farmer's guaranteed income so that he can live? I repeat it second and third times. He can live, stay at his place and produce. You're talking about oil. I told you before. You said a hundred and eighty thousand, I said two hundred thousand, you'll give them. So who again? To the main-professional farmers, to those who are in the cooperatives and go by saying. The other two hundred thousand? And we don't put it against each other. For you are serving in this direction, are you trying to apply this law, 'divide and rule', and have farmers collide with each other, for what? For 50 million. I told you this in the previous question, for 50 million crustaceans, even for oil, at the same time every year as I said to you, it is written in the previous question - which you give 370 million tax to reduce the VAT on oil to clinical, business and shipowners. And let me tell you the other thing, in 2015, which was also the farms, we had lower prices, all that we call 'production costs' was much less, oil did not have such a price, and farmers received 185 million. And now you throw them a 50 million-dollar crumb. I repeat, the Prime Minister in Larissa, in 2019 before the elections, was committed. This commitment is these crumbs. Let farmers draw their conclusions, let them define their position, and let you know that the next period of great struggles will be held by farmers. Their anger and indignation must be transformed into an organized struggle against and against the policy of the government and the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u46	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Let's get them a little bit. That is what the Vice-President said, too, money has been given to farmers. That's what he said. Let me remind you of the amounts that I mentioned a moment ago. I said that due to the aid, due to COVID, because of the restrictive measures, which are administrative measures, EUR 164 million has been allocated so far and another 40 will be provided by the end of the year. So 40 is the announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u48	But, Minister, the question is not about...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u49	I've got three minutes. Well, also...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u50	The Minister is going to drive us crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u51	I said in...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u52	The question is not about oilseeds. We will either answer a specific question or say that we cannot answer it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u53	The Minister heard that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u54	I have three minutes, don't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u55	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. So, I'm saying again to understand, so we don't get confused. A total of 164 million has been allocated because of COVID so far, they have been credited to the accounts of producers and farmers. Another 40 million will be credited by the end of the year, or 204 million. The announcement is for 40 million. A further EUR 258 million has therefore been provided through the repayable advances. Aggregate, and that's why we're reaching half a billion that we said before. The announcements you said aren't true. They are measures that have been legislated, they have been passed by the Greek Parliament and they apply in relation to the tax which I mentioned before. However, let's go now and see what has happened for the olive tree and for the olive growers throughout the country. Because you have invoked the Prime Minister twice. Mr. Mitsotakis is consistent with what he has announced and kept and puts us ministers, follow it literally and be precise with his words and announcements. So I'm telling you this. There is Measure 21 from the Rural Development Programme, the AAA, our Ministry, entitled 'Extreme temporary support to farmers in sectors particularly affected by the effects of the COVID -19' pandemic. Other money is these, separate colours are here, where for oil producers across the country they have been given - it is a measure of 2020-126 million euros. So add it. From the PAA 126m euros in 2020 for the country's producers. If you have any evidence, question it. I question the numbers you mentioned above. In addition, de minimis aid for table olives with OPEKEPE system code 2008/190 was granted by decision of May 2021, now EUR 1.5 million. In addition, a joint ministerial decision, decided at the end of 2020, in November 2020, to grant State aid to the table olives of the Kalamata variety, was given - a total budget of EUR 13,200,000. Recently it was decided by ministerial decision and given for the other varieties of table olive that were not covered by what I mentioned before EUR 11,125,000. I sum up again: EUR 126 million from PAA, EUR 9 million for table olive and others, EUR 13 million for Kalamon olive and EUR 11,125,000 for the other categories of olives, which are not included. If you make the sum - which numbers have also been recorded in the Minutes - it goes beyond the EUR 170 million allocated to the country as a whole to the olive growers from 2020 until today. And I am talking about the end of 2020. I am not talking about the beginning of 2020. So we're talking about that within a year we've given all this money. With this, then, the weapons and following the directions that the government decides and gives us personally by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, we see and face our farmers and producers in our eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. The next two questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Simos Kedicoglou. We move on to the third debate with number 182/15-11-2021 on the second time question by Mr Emmanuel Syntagakis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "The problems of small and medium-sized farmers in Crete". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, farmers in Crete are in racing mobilizations. This is a fair struggle supported by the JRC. It is a fight that must continue, but not with calicians and rags who make a fool of the fight for farmers, but a struggle that will have a purely conflicting front with the policies of the governments of your own, the European Union and also the commercial and industrial sectors. It is a struggle that needs to escalate until their demands are met, because the situation has reached the unprecedented. They cannot survive with your policy, a policy that favours a few big farmers, large livestock units, feed manufacturers and milk cartels. This is a systematic attack that evaporates their incomes with animal feed riots, with degrading prices for the producer in milk and other livestock products, with prices which cannot be guaranteed either at the cost of production, with payments to farmers who are made in line with the mountains of the major traders, with the open prices paid by the commercial industrialists, with unbearable costs of maritime transport, with increases in fuel, electricity, with excessive taxation, with excessive insurance contributions to the ECA, with damages to the weather and diseases of animals which are not compensated or covered, to a minimum and with the suspension of forestry maps on grassland which, instead of solving problems, created even more. It is incomprehensible to list the small- and medium-sized farmers and the farmers as a whole. As if that were not enough, the joint ministerial decision which drastically reduces subsidies, forestry aid and compensation for the distribution of pastures, with very heavy consequences for new farmers, has come. These reductions will be much greater in the retrospective implementation of this shameful joint ministerial decision on the distribution of pastures. Instead of strengthening small- and medium-sized farmers on the basis of their livestock capital without other formalities, by giving them some'refresh', the government imposes a wild 'check' which leads to their collection, the same as the previous governments and SYRIZA and PASOK have done before. Besides, the scope for declaring land only to get aid without showing livestock capital was given by SYRIZA and must not move the finger. In other words, you are literally applying the new common agricultural policy of the European Union, which can introduce clauses for aid of more than 100 thousand euros not to support small ones, but to ensure the uninterrupted supply of raw materials on behalf of industrialists. That is, in the final analysis, what you are favouring and not bio-population farmers. All of you are digging the farm farmers' pit, which is why they must have absolutely no confidence in you, nor in some self-confident peasant fathers who systematically try to co-operate the farm farmers' struggle to exploit their pain and anxiety, who, in association with your Government, try to make fun of this honest and fair struggle. So the reality is tough and it's not hiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u59	The rest in your dentistry. You have already exceeded time. Go to the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, thank you very much for the tolerance you have shown on such a subject, because the agricultural world in Crete is uprooted and awaits answers and solutions from the government. Will you take back the joint ministerial decision on pastures here and now and without any retroactive effect, without time-consuming and without 'yes', but will you, on the one hand, ensure that no one loses any small-scale rights and aid that he had and received so far and, on the other, has the necessary grazing areas, while, at the same time, linking up the aid scheme with production and livestock? Will you support small and medium-sized farmers with measures so that they can continue their productive activity to survive? Will you reduce production costs? Will you really support domestic production? Will minimum guaranteed prices be fixed on livestock products? Will you compensate them for all damages suffered by theories and diseases? Will you give them this exceptional aid of the four euros per animal because of a pandemic, as the farmers themselves demand? Will you cover them, with a state grant to the farmers themselves and not the shipowners, the cost of transporting their products? And finally, will you resolve as a government - why did you create it - the matter of forest maps without any financial burden and for the benefit of small and medium-sized farmers? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u61	A generalized question was asked, this timely question. Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I find it very interesting that you are complaining and being against the European Union, but European subsidies in the agricultural sector are very interested. As far as milk is concerned, you should be aware that this government, by combating illegal 'Greekisations' has brought up the price of milk for producers, and indeed is the highest price throughout the European Union. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to present a summary of the work carried out by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which is both outraged and concerned and has priority for the livestock sector and takes all the necessary measures to ensure its sustainability. I will reply to you and clarify the necessity of the joint ministerial decision, which attempts to restore a number of chronic distortions and circumventions in the way public land is distributed, always operating within the Community institutional framework and within the national choices made in previous years. The CRL forms a more equitable and objective framework in the allocation of aid to farmers who are now starting their farming activity, a framework that must, together with other interventions and controls, meet and comply with the obligations of the new CFP in each Member State - the European Union. The OHIM forecast benefits the consistent and productive young or new farmers starting their farming activity and is supported for it in order to be sustainable, productive, competitive and to increase the size of their holding by exploiting Community resources. The Ministry of Rural Development launched a comprehensive dialogue with farmers and farmers and detailed decisions on the payments of OPEKEPE were adopted in this respect and already announced last Monday on 13 November. In this dialogue - because we believe in the dialogue - you know that personally, together with the leadership of OPECE which is here, we have had parallel meetings with representatives of breeders from all the prefectures of Crete and already with this clarification decision - the announcement of the OPECE - to correct any omissions or errors made at the time of submission of applications, the OPEKEPE system of administrative acts has been reopened so that producers through their advisers can make corrective moves. When assessing OPECF, following the correction of the data by beneficiaries, those who are entitled to the most recent data will be included in the liquidation. That is why we urge the beneficiaries to immediately correct their data so that they are included in the next payment if they are, of course, entitled to it. I mean, the sooner they fix the sooner they get paid. Also, in relation to your question about the actions the government will take to ensure the necessary pasture areas, I would like to point out to you that this is precisely the aim of the Agency for pastures, namely to ensure areas of pasture for real producers, by preventing areas of pasture from being destroyed by non-beneficiaries, and by stressing that we are ensuring the correct and fair distribution of Union aid by introducing strict penalties where there is an unjustified reduction in livestock capital, i.e. a reduction without invoicing, without invoices, without any proof. Also relevant are decisions by the Court of Justice of the European Union, with which Greece won about seven and a half million acres of pasture on Greek territory. What you are asking of the ELGA's payment of compensation to the insurance companies and in accordance with the insurance regulation, is that the estimates of the livestock are carried out directly, while the compensation is paid to the insurers as compared to the past years, and the compensation is paid to 100%, as you ask in your question. I would refer you to the relevant ELGA document, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Simos Kedicoglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, for the producers of Crete, the aid through CIVID -19 (de minimis) and measures 2021 amounted to 2021 for 2020 and 2021 in the four regional units of Heraklion, Chania, Rethymnon, Lasithi at 47,255.00, according to the OPEKEPE data. The hottest problem, however, is feed. Our aim is - and it must be - and we have proceeded with planning at the Ministry, to increase national production...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have a second. Look at the watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u64	More, then, in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. I will give the floor to Mr Synergyakis, with the request of both you, Mr Synergyakis, and the Minister, in your dentistry, to be in time, because you have more than doubled the protology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President, in any case. Perhaps, Minister, the price of milk in Greece is very high - I don't know, you said it - but don't say half the truth, say it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u67	You can see the elements of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u68	There is the highest cost of production. And if the truth is half, it means it's the whole lie. What you said in relation to pastures, livestock, etc., are the results of your own policy and you are trying to make farmers accomplices. You are going to make them accomplices, as you have done in the past, all the parties in the oil producers, winegrowers and citrus fruits, all the products. Small and medium-sized farmers and farmers in Crete - and all over Greece, of course - feel on a daily basis the consequences of the common agricultural policy, which, in its revision, is becoming more and more reactionary. You talked about the feedstuffs. Prices in feedingstuffs account for almost 70% -80% of production costs. Why? Because in this way they ate the profits of monopolies that produce them and move them. I will tell you indicative prices that have been made, such as for corn. Within five months of 10.5 euros the bag went to 15 euros, 50% increase in five months. The soybean from 15 euros a purple sap went to 18, 19 euros. In other words, the cost, in order to keep a sheep all year round, is up to 100 euros. How, then, with the false subsidies, the farmer can run the test on his land, on his stanze, on his livestock. Prices imposed by commercial industrialists, but also by the state on farm products and supplies - we are talking about animal feed, medicines, agricultural current, oil, machinery, etc. - it's too, too high. If you add the carpets that fall like a hail, the pockets are empty and the farmer's literality. So far, Minister, over 100 thousand small and medium-sized farmers have been destroyed and abandoned over the last decade. They're out. This is the famous development. That's for the few at the expense of the many. What the farmers themselves are asking for is to get back, here and now, the KYA for pastures, without asterisks, without technocrats - because these are heard - without dialogues with the Ministry, with OPEKEPE to shake time, to frustrate and stop the struggles. That's your target. You don't want to take CIA. It is the European Union's duty to do so and make farmers' accomplices. To take immediate measures to reduce production costs, to grant exceptional subsidies for the purchase of feed, since prices are so high, to subsidise farmers and farmers for maritime transport and not to give the equivalent to shipowners and shipping companies. And correct the forest maps. I would like to say that there are a lot of questions, Mr President, because you have made a hint to prototype. However, these are also the demands made by farmers because they experience each day. The JRC calls on bio-palestial farmers and farmers to escalate their struggle with an organisation, with care for their struggle, in forms they choose themselves to be exemplary and effective and to lose their sleep by many, hitting at the heart of those responsible, who are the government, the European Union, the cartels and the commercial industrialists. If that doesn't happen, then they lose themselves and they have to touch with confidence in genuine folk fighters who...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u70	...and not to agents who survive public relations with ministers and governments. The contours that played you in your ministry's living room must be played on the race path and not in the living room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I also find it interesting to choose the word 'costs', that is to say we are making farmers and farmers complicit. Are you implying that something is illegally induced? We are doing and want to see farmers and farmers involved in development. I would like you to tell me a point in the ministerial decision you disagree with. I just want to tell you that the activation of grazing without animals was an option for Greece in 2015 and we are obliged to maintain it until the end of the current common agricultural policy. With regard to feedingstuffs, which is really the big problem, I would like to say that the problem is that we do not have national feed production. Greece is not self-sufficient in feed. What we are planning is to increase national production, because when transport costs are increased, feed prices are being launched. I imagine that this is an objective to which you will agree. In addition to this, we have made a working group in the Ministry of Rural Development specifically with this object, how we will increase national production and how we reduce feed costs. We've reduced VAT on feed already, from 13% to 6%. We're doing hundreds of checks on illegal speculation in the feed trade. At the same time, we are taking measures to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock facilities. Tomorrow, the Committee of Parliament comes to see the relevant bill: "Statutes to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock facilities". The aim is to modernise livestock facilities, to sustainability, to improve the business environment of farmers in general. As for the oil of farmers, I would say that it is estimated at a hundred and sixty thousand farmers who will benefit from the government's intervention in returning excise duty, and that it concerns young farmers and farmers members of cooperative schemes. The financial cost will be EUR 50 million for next year. We have a series of actions implemented by the Rural Development Programme to promote livestock farming. Time is not enough, but I should like to say to you: pig farming and poultry farming are eligible. We have support for new participations in quality systems, investments that improve the overall performance of the assets, start-up of business by young farmers, development of small farms, setting-up of producer groups and organisations. In the field of ovine and caprine animals by Ministerial Decision, the amount of aid per eligible animal was EUR 10,53. In ovine and caprine animals, a direct grant of EUR 30,155,000 was granted for the treatment of pandemic. The incompatibility and duty-free treatment of aid granted has been regulated. The deadlines for implementation of integrated private and public investment have been extended. The reduction or removal of the minimum percentage of the total authorised budget to be requested by the beneficiary in the first payment application. The increase in the number of requests for payment. The increase in the rate of payment of advances to beneficiaries to strengthen their liquidity. The possibility of completing the investment to a lesser extent than its authorised physical and economic object. The non-requirement of on-the-spot verification visits of the implementation of the physical and economic object during the interim stages. The audit will be carried out at the end of the day, at the end of implementation. The increase in the percentage of total overcompensation of the resources of the Rural Development Programme. Also in cattle the amount of aid per eligible animal is EUR 140.8. As regards your second question on forests, we should refer you to the document of the Directorate-General for Forests and Forest Environment of the Ministry for the Environment and Energy. Both the self-order and the request for the correction of manifest errors of forest maps, as well as a distinct procedure for the administrative recognition of property, have already been established. I submit the relevant document. [[At this point Mr Simos Kedicoglou, State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u73	Thank you too, Minister. I would like to announce that the second question by number 174/12-11-2021 of the SYRIZA MP, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: 'The payment of basic aid of 2021' and the first question under number 192/15-11-2021 of the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP, Mr Alexis Charissis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'The inaction of the Government to take support measures leads to a collapse of the income of thousands of Corinthian raisiners'. We continue and conclude with the last question for the day, the third with number 188/15-11-2021, a top-level question by Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Great problems are created by the Joint Ministerial Decision (CDE) of the last minute with retrospective power - major reductions in subsidies". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, contrary to what has been said before, we accuse you of not having been in dialogue before the decisions were adopted, but after a celebration, which has little substance. You have proceeded, instead of managing grants transparently, rules and justice in the previous situation, which since 2018 has imposed total opacity on how to distribute the stock and a number of other procedures. Thus, you have been in front of the deadlocks that you are trying to deal with by cross-cutting measures that reduce aid for all producers. With the CSR we are talking about - for the first time, it has retroactive effect of a CSM - except for the individual cases it includes, such as that the three lambs become one or the distribution of pastures, etc., we have for the single payment and the procedure for its performance a result of the advance that is very importantly negative: some ninety thousand producers have left out. The main reasons, as the farmers who, after your meeting, have called us to Heraklion and have informed us, are three: the retrospective introduction of the compulsory registration of the ATAK. The second reason is that there have been no areas of inheritance or transfers that have taken place lately. Producers with rentals not renewed and arable land located in or adjacent to them were excluded. All this, of course, together with the issue of forest maps, when the register is not complete, and of course the procedures for forest maps have not been completed. All of this at a time when we have increased production costs. Let's not talk in detail about the revaluations. It is well known. This decision will therefore have retroactive effect in a year even in 2022, which will be a reference to the new CAP. And on Monday you gave an opportunity to change that will not solve the problems, but will enable a small number of ninety thousand to correct. And that's why the last minute's retroactive power doesn't give them that possibility. They didn't know when they applied. So because we have at the same time with the great increases in the cost of energy and production of this aid cut, there is a problem for farmers and farmers. And we ask the following two things: if you intend before making the second payment and along with those who have not been paid in the first with those of the previous GAAP, that is, what was in force on the day when the producers submitted the application, rather than what you have subsequently amended? That is the one question which is also a request from producers. Secondly, are there compensatory measures to replace the income of producers, farmers and from what source? Is there any thought, intention or design from national resources or from de minimis? In addition, I tell you that right now, OPEKEPE is in occupation in Heraklion and not just, I think, in Chania. Yesterday, motorized movement took place and the request from farmers and farmers is to see the Prime Minister to explain the problem to him because they did not find a response from the Minister and did not allow their demands to be met by the meeting you had together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor, Mr Kedicoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u76	Mr Colleagues, I should just like to start telling you information. The difference in the advance - because we are talking about an advance - in Crete compared to last year is less than 10%. That is, in 2020, the advance payment was EUR 113 million and this year it was EUR 106 million. These 7 million of the difference will be reduced even further after the checks have been completed. I'll get one, one of your points. You say that retrospectively the compulsory identification of the property identification number of the ATAK was introduced. First of all, it is not ninety thousand cases, it is sixty-three thousand and sixteen cases where the control mainly had a partial impact. So the one who had five parcels and had a problem with one was not only paid for one. But he was paid for four. To see the real size, we are talking about a hundred thirteen thousand parcels re-examined in a total of 6.5 million. Make the account and you'll see it's a minimum percentage. And this, however, because the dialogue results, the entry of the ATAK is mandatory from a circle of 2018, and cross-checking of ownership had been announced, the prerequisite of which is the registration of the ATAK. It was announced by OPECE and was also announced by the Minister for Rural Development in Parliament on 19 February this year. However, in order to correct omissions or errors in the submission of applications, as requested by the farmers at the intermittent meetings we had at the Ministry, the OPEKEPE administration system was opened again last Monday, as I said before, so that producers can make corrective statements through their advisers. An estimate of OPECF following the correction of the data by beneficiaries will be included in the liquidation of those on the basis of the latest data. That is why, as I said before, they must rush to make the correction to be paid faster. Now the cases arising from the cross-check with the AIA, something else that the farmers have also asked us to do and we have moved on to this, are corrected by more than 95% of all Greece. The only cases that are not restored, as I will explain to you now, are the changes of ownership as you are well aware that it is our national obligation in the European Union to state the nationality and occupation by 31 May of each year. The OPEKEPE checks are cross-checked with the ADI records as they apply until 30 May and therefore no retrospective submission of ownership data can be made. Now for the alleged exclusion of producers with rentals that have not been renewed by active farmers energising rights in areas with private leases which, despite their will, the lessor does not follow the provisions of the Civil Code for four-year lease contracts - these are the monasteries, the municipalities - will be able to provide the relevant evidence to the OPECE in order to demonstrate the inability to renew the private lease and to request rights for activation in a public pasture. In order to exclude arable land situated within or adjacent to NATURA areas in the arable land adjacent to NATURA areas, these cases are already examined automatically by the OPECE and will be corrected and cleared immediately. And arable land within NATURA areas are normally paid. What is not allowed is the declaration of arable crops within NATURA areas because, as you know, in NATURA areas there are arable land, there are pastures and forest land. What you can't do is declare arable crops within grassland. I imagine you agree. The OPEKEPE computer system is already considering the necessary adjustments. The agency's estimate is that, at the end of this year's payment, the discrepancies will relate to less than 0.2% of the country's total areas. Please note that the beneficiaries of grants of declared areas in NATURA affected by cross-checking relate only to eight thousand fifty two cases in a total of five hundred ninety thousand beneficiaries of basic aid. In my dentistry, I'm going to go on with the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u78	Mr Minister, if you understood before, my colleague from the JRC said that the committee does not express the farmers because it belongs to the vast majority of you on your side and a game is played. I don't have the same point of view, but it seems that you're the ones who deceive them the worst. Indeed. But that has nothing to do with it. It may be partisanally 80% or 90% of this committee on your sidelines, but here are the problems that are being posed and you are questioning them. You question them directly. The process that you opened on Monday under the pressure of mobilisation - a press release on Sunday has come out - does not give the opportunity for substantial changes, because for substantial changes this CSR, which has emerged retrospectively and retrospectively, has caused the problems. Substantial changes are needed. In particular, the ATAK was not mandatory by any Ministerial Decision or OLAF. If you have it, please. Circulars, rumors, oral announcements don't count. Only the ministerial decision, the joint ministerial decision, the administrative decision, or something that will be specific, counts. Obviously they would be prepared and they would have made the process of ensuring that farmers themselves, but in two days or in a month's time that is not done. You know that very well. And, in any case, the rules should have been laid down on the day they make the application. You didn't define them. You've made them apply and retrospectively make the rules. You can't do that. In a favoured state that doesn't exist. But why did you have to do it? Because the management, as I told you, was such that it led to a dead end and you had to cut. And instead of actually cutting off, based on evidence that is available and keeping in mind of area trespasses by farmers who do not have animals, focus on controls on livestock farmers. This is a contradiction. You need to see her. So you say that the European Union does not plan to change ownership. Really? So, if the other one dies, the heirs don't have rights?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u79	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u80	There's this. It's a big problem. It's a significant percentage. Heirs should be able to receive the subsidy. But that's not true. It's an important parameter for the sixty-three thousand you said. Let's go to the arables. In arables, therefore, the system that has been opened gives the right to exempt them. But it must not be just this. It must be corrected, given the right not to exclude it, to rectify the mistake by mistake, that is, the declaration in the pastures, as you have rightly said, of an arable area. This is inadvertently because it was not clear in their choices. So the system must now be able not to exclude it and lose the subsidy, but to change its character. It is a pasture or is adequacy outside of a pasture. If it's with another code, of course. I say this, for example, to see that there are solutions and the solution is first of all to apply the criteria that applied to the time that producers made the applications. This is the solution for this year. And the OSH will not be abolished, but will change the date of entry into force of this Regulation, so that it will apply in its entirety in 2022. To have the time to adapt the farmers to it. We do not deny the rules, but the rules that enter and leave the margin of adjustment. Those who cover them will, of course, stay out, but this is not what this is all about. It's not that they don't cover the rules. You do not give them time to adapt to the rules that you are quite right to apply. I mean that, as a government, you choose certain rules, which must of course be in line with the general rule. In that sense, I would say that is the solution for this year. Of course, farmers must be able to correct. The second proposal for a solution is for OPEKEPE to adapt the possibility of making substantial changes, such as the ones I have told you. Apart from ATAK, which is actually typical if you don't have it. Because if the E9 is declared, the matching with the ATAK is typical. And if you go to the tax office for a case of them, you'll see that it's not very easy to get things straight. To give this opportunity for substantial changes, and of course, to see the overall issue of production costs, as was the case with other issues. But you must also convey to the Prime Minister - and I would ask you to do so - that the farmers of Crete consider themselves wronged for two reasons...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u81	Close, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u82	I'm hanging up. Firstly, they accept the menstruation of the farmers in the rest of the regions because they have targeted themselves, as it were, to the effect that they are causing the problem. The second is that they do not find a response, not from you - they say it directly - but from Mr Lebanese, the Minister for Rural Development and they ask for an appointment. OPEKEKEPE can't remain occupied for an appointment that the Prime Minister has to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u83	Minister, you have the floor to conclude today's process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to have the Community and the obligation of the farmers to demonstrate that an area is predominant and occupied by 31 May. As far as the Certificates are concerned, up to ten years back, it is sufficient that they have been accepted and accepted. After 31 May you understand that this cannot be done. It is also forbidden to change the cultivation in retrospect. It can't be done. Are we going to say that by mistake it was another crop or instead of cultivation we're going to put animals? But to see the good faith of the government, recognizing that someone may be unable to cope with the conditions of the agricultural profession and since he decided to transfer his rights, he does not ask for his aid to be repaid. But the rights received are returned to the national reserve money to be exploited by young and new farmers. I would also refer you to the OPEKEPE website, where there is a communication. But, Mr President, I am sure that through the improvements provided by the possibility of modifying and correcting the data submitted in a wide range, where, as I have said, only the ownership cannot be changed, the OPECE assessment is that after the correction of the data by the beneficiaries will be included in the liquidation of those who are entitled to it, which concerns the vast majority of the people who have been received. And that is why we urge, as I said, the beneficiaries to hurry to make the changes so that they can be paid as quickly as possible. They have the possibility by 31 January, but the sooner they fix it, the sooner they get paid. And you will see in the December payment that it will be minimal the percentage that will not be satisfied. Irrespective of the possibility of correcting the beneficiaries for the single payment, but also the actions which OPECE will take on its own initiative, I should like to point out to you that producers who are part of rural development measures within NATURA will normally receive their aid. But I think, Mr President - and that is where we have to fight the great deal - that the major issue is the cost of feedingstuffs. There, we need a new national strategy, and that is what we are building now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-17-S1-commons.u86	With the consent of the House at 12.53p. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 18 November 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
