ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of Civil Protection: 1) ‘Determination of the Protocol between the Governments of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia implementing the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’. 2) ‘Determination of the Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Montenegro on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’. 3) 'Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the establishment and operation of a centre for police and customs cooperation'. 4) "Following the Memorandum of Understanding" between the Ministry of Citizen Protection of the Hellenic Republic and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) for hosting a Frontex Officer in the Hellenic Republic". The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these conventions for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes, provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. The vote on all four conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately in the order of debate. There is a flexibility in the application of Article 108. We are giving the floor to the Members of Parliament as well. So I think I have the unanimous agreement on a point of order. Then we start with those who had declared reservation or objection, and then we will go to the New Democracy and the Change Movement that they had voted in favour. So for contracts 1 and 2 by SYRIZA Mrs Kafantaris will be given the floor for both contracts 3 and 4 by Mr Kalamatianos. It has each one of five minutes with a small tolerance. When the process is completed, I will give the Minister the floor, with a relative comfort of time, because they will have to answer to everyone. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot really close our eyes. Reality is tough and very difficult. I don't want to say much. I shall mention briefly the elements which exist for the pandemic, which it is looting. It seems that the government and the Prime Minister personally have not understood the size of this story. There is no small number of five or a hundred people who lost their lives yesterday, when now in large public hospitals in the country there are no meth beds. For example, I refer to the Atticon Hospital, the largest university hospital, which on Saturdays had sixty a ranch, subsidiary beds, as the government calls them to sound more beautiful and not to use a small hospital, "Agia Barbara", with fifty two beds that cannot function, because it has no staff to serve. The situation is too difficult, too, on the forefront of accuracy. He was mentioned yesterday by Alexis Tsipras and the timely question tabled and spoken by all political leaders. Only Mr. Mitsotakis does not see reality. And that seemed from yesterday's position. Of course, polls show something different. People are reacting. 54% in a recent survey is not satisfied with the management of the pandemic, while about 66% is talking about rising prices, saying that ultimately it is the big problem and the government has not done much. Apart from the fact that Mr Mitsotakis and his Government are out of reality, I fear that they are outside international law and that they are managed by immigration and refugee. It is a global issue, a pan-European issue. Indeed, the causes are many, beyond wars, conflicts, climate change that many are talking about, as are our green Prime Minister, also exacerbates migration and refugee flows, something that the UN is saying internationally and internationally. But when we come to this, we close our eyes and face it, I am very sorry, in a way that does not comply with the international principles of law. Our country is implementing a policy that is contrary to international conventions, values, I dare say, solidarity and humanity. Of course, we are undermining the strategy of proportional accountability of the countries of the European Union for immigration. Because you know it is a European issue that we are living and facing from our country, which geographically happens to be at this point and to accept these flows from Turkey, across the street. Of course, the problem of immigration's work, which we are experiencing, we are also experiencing at the Polish - Belarus border today, and we are experiencing it much more strongly before and now on the Erdogan side of our islands, is an issue that is very important and only with international principles and compliance with international law. Our country's negotiating weapon is to implement the rules of international law and not to work. Refugee, gentlemen of the Government, the establishment of an independent mechanism for monitoring the border procedure. At the moment we have disappearances of people, refugees, immigrants, one is here, one is there, no answers. We're keeping people, I'd say, under conditions that are inconsistent with international law. And unfortunately, the government is gradually plunging into xenophobic perceptions and compiling with the respective xenophobic forces of Europe. These protocols, which we are voting on today with our vote here concerning the Hellenic Republic and the Governments of Montenegro and Serbia for readmission of persons residing without authorisation, were signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007. The readmission of a country's nationals is an obligation under international customs law. With the ratification of these protocols, steps are being taken to address the major issue of irregular immigration. Especially in recent years, in recent years, irregular immigration has increased. The ratification of the other protocols, together with technical details for their implementation, is an important means of preventing and addressing the phenomenon. In addition, it will also be a deterrent to traffic circuits, helping, on the other hand, voluntary return of irregular immigrants. It is right to ratify the protocols and may form a basis for further cooperation between States Parties by safeguarding the interests of the country. This penalty will save time for expulsions as, through readmission, a specific procedure is followed for the implementation of the expulsion ordered by the transfer of the person concerned to the State of origin or origin and also by a fair movement of citizens. The United Nations's sixth objective of sustainable development is to ratify the protocols: Peace, justice and strong institutions, which are found in Agenda 2030, dedicated to promoting peaceful and inclusive societies. We will be positive, Mr President. Thank you for this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. On behalf of SYRIZA Mr Kalamatiano has the floor for the third and fourth ratifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, unfortunately, we had again a hundred five or a hundred dead, again a hundred victims. We hoped we wouldn't live that again. Unfortunately, we are reliving this again and it seems that the positions and positions of the Prime Minister and government are not being fulfilled that we are going through the last mile and that we are done with the pandemic, which both the Prime Minister and the government have said on several occasions. Unfortunately, pandemic is present and every day we mourn the loss of hundreds of our fellow people. An entire village, almost, is lost every day. People must not be turned into numbers. We must always think of these people who are lost and do what we need to do in order to finally have an effective way of dealing with pandemic. I will not go any further, because time is limited. We had the statements made yesterday by the Prime Minister in fact. The reaction of the representatives of consumers, businesses and households shows that these measures are in no way sufficient. It is too little to curb the huge wave of precision that is affecting businesses and households and, unfortunately, winter is ahead and increases in electricity, raw materials, food, the supermarket's account will be afflicting households for a long time. Unfortunately, the recovery expected by the government and the self-regulation of the market does not seem to come or be effective. I now come to two sanctions. Regarding the first ratification of the memorandum with FRONTEX, I also told the committee that Greece is relying on the absolute application of international law to claim and safeguard its rights both with regard to Turkey and, more generally, with regard to Turkey. Therefore, both the Greek Government and the European Union and its agencies, such as FRONTEX, must comply with international law. In any case, they must immediately examine, with the care and interest needed, any complaints about illegal re-propelled people to the sea and on land. With regard to the memorandum with Albania and the establishment of the Centre for the Management of Crime and Customs Violations, I said that it was in a positive direction, but not just such agreements. Other actions and other activities are needed to deal with crime and, above all, serious crime. The basic prerequisite and the treaty for a democratically operating state is the security of citizens. To achieve this, police and overall security bodies are required to serve society and protect the citizens and the Constitution. As long as the New Democracy was in the opposition, it was in favour of and support the account in the determination and effectiveness of achieving public security. Election by the ruling party and the government as a whole shows that it does not give the emphasis to where it needs to be. Organised crime acts undisturbed, we have daily execution of death contracts. Protection, smuggling, brutal murders make up a wild daily life. Parts of the Greek Police, which are involved in prosecuting and fighting crime, are subordinated. You have seen it, Minister, with your visits to the local police stations. At the same time, police officers, who could offer to deal with crime, are engaged in other services. It is clear that the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Government as a whole have other priorities. It is clear that the famous "law and order" has nothing to do with the true security of citizens. It is obvious that the government places emphasis on the repression, the exercise of social violence against young people, students, strikers and protesters, hires thousands of special guards with special procedures, except for pan-Hellenic exams and ASAPs, to serve mainly in new and existing services that deal with the repression, constantly strengthen suppression bodies such as DIAH teams, DIAHS teams, and establish university police, while at the same time citizens find that crime on the streets and neighborhoods is growing. Contrary to all this, where we believe that emphasis needs to be placed, our orientation and aim is for the police to be committed to its institutional mission, to civil security, to dealing with crime, to defend the Constitution and democracy, to address modern social issues. How are we going to achieve this? Emphasizing the prevention of crime, the treatment of social, economic and psychological conditions that give rise to crime, the creation of new structures and the reinforcement of specialist scientists - sociologists, social workers, lawyers, IT and others - to deal with crimes that are now happening very often, such as gypsies, racial violence, domestic violence, turfing children, women and refugees, paedophiles, electronic crime. Police are required with more specialist scientists, more specific training is required, modern means and structures are required to be integrated into the operational structure of the police. These objectives can be achieved by substantially upgrading and specialising police training, by exploiting qualified and qualified staff, in order to provide specific services, such as the Directorate of Economic Police, the E-Crime Adviser, Informatics, the Departments of Domestic Violence, the Criminal Investigation and others by continuing education and post-training, training and specialisation of police members. A functional, effective and democratic police needs the upgrading of logistical equipment and the adequacy of operational means, the strengthening of the system of psychological support for executives and the creation of an institution of the police officer, by upgrading and fully restoring the computer systems, the introduction of an automated, worthwhile and objective system of evaluation of executives based on the principle of suitability...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Callammaine, that's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, this centre is being built to deal with crime and customs violations. I am referring to how we can deal with crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u7	In your time, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we need an institutional police armour. We believe that they do not work against crime and that there should not be such bodies dealing with repression alone and, of course, there is a need for major and intense interventions to tackle the crime. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u9	We now go to the Communist Party of Greece, where we have two special speakers here, Mrs Maria Konnakas, who will talk about the first and second agreements and then Mr Nikolaos Papastasis, who will speak about the third and fourth agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. The JRC shall vote against the two readmission agreements at the outset. These are agreements signed by the European Union with Serbia and Montenegro in 2007, i.e. just a few years after Yugoslavia's blood-moving and partitioning with its own leading role, of course, along with NATO's assistance. The two agreements come in the form of a protocol on the technical aspects of their implementation between Greece and these two countries. Of course, the timing of the vote is not random. Their signature is presented as an unfinished one, but it actually comes at a time when developments in the Balkans and the wider region are rapid, at a time when the refugee, immigration is at the heart of the debate in the European Union after the developments in Afghanistan, but also the tragic ones that have been taking place in Belarus's border, where thousands of desperate people from Iraq, Afghanistan, Serbia, the Middle East, Africa, among them small children, have been caught up in the same competitions that have been rooted out of their homelands. And all this following the collapse of such an unacceptable agreement to rethink the refugees of the European Union with Belarus, as is evidently the case when people are turned into negotiating tools and while the whole debate is about preparing an even more brutal repression against those who have been challenging the retreats in the name of extraordinary conditions and the hybrid threats, with new scary, huge fences and modern means of monitoring and control, while of course FRONTEX is being strengthened and acting uncontrolled at the Greek border. Moreover, the continued statements made by the Government leave no margin of misinterpretation. We are hearing about a strict but fair policy on immigration, about an unambiguous message that our borders are being protected to prevent illegal flows, as you say. The hypocrisy of all of you, now that the exacerbation of imperialist antagonisms and interventions is growing and will bring new waves of camps, is escalating daily. In any case, your understanding of the implementation of the European Union's anti-immigration policy is characteristic despite the crisp appeals to respect for international law. The most outrageous thing is, of course, that the protagonists in the imperialist contours - all these governments and bloodless organisations involved in one way or another in competitive geopolitical games and our own government, unexcluded - while they know, tolerate or encourage people's traffickers, are today being accused of working for migrants and hybrids. As innocent of blood they do not know that the despair of millions of people around the world, the barbaric and multi-formal capitalist exploitation are pushing them to leave their countries in every way by risking even their lives. Of course they do. That is why they are taking measures to tackle the threat, as they say, of the millions of outdated people who cynically estimate that they will increase in the coming years because of the imperialist antagonisms that are exacerbated at every corner of the map, but also of the poverty of climate change and others. So such agreements are then part of the bazaar between the imperialist states, which, after the interventions of millions of people from their countries, then haggle how many and whom will they get, as required for cheap labour. We have seen this happen in Germany too, where its sensitivity to Syrian refugees has been exhausted once it has met the needs of its industries. Of course, this same selective policy applies with other flexibility when it comes to attracting or giving residence permits and special visas to rich real estate investors and not only. So as you call them an irregular, illegal, etc. Immigrants are not changing the nature of the issue, because the cause of immigration is the same as the cause of refugee. He who bombs himself builds the slaves, drowns refugees at sea, creates the unemployed, reduces the losses, moves the drugs, trades women, builds the bombers, and his name is common and known, capitalism is. That is why they do not prevent or stop the phenomenon, but only increase the impoverishment and barbarity for the uprooted, but also increase the caging and dissatisfaction of the people of our country. It is no coincidence, moreover, that the newly promoted pact on immigration and asylum contains as a basic direction such agreements, agreements which require the conversion of our country into a concentration camp, a prison of the European Union, in order to serve the selective and deeply classic immigration policy of the European Union against the outdated, keeping them away from the possibility of reaching the countries of their real destination. As long as the repression, caging, uncontrolled action by FRONTEX at the border and the retreats continue, so the desperate people will fall into the fingernails of the traffickers' circuits and so much we would measure shipwrecks in the Aegean Sea and traffic near the land borders, such as the recent tragic far-reaching accident in Egnatia with seven more immigrants. That is why we will, of course, vote against both agreements. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u11	Mr Papanastassis Nikolaos has the floor for the third and fourth agreement on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Our position on the Greek-Albania agreement under discussion on the establishment of the Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation in Cakavia is summarized that this is part of the overall Euro-Union repressive climate that is spread across the Union based on the directions of the European Union. In our view, the aim is to control the working class and popular movements of all peoples. Invoking the general condition of the security of the two countries is in compliance with the European Union's reactionary policy to combat the current security challenges and threats, in which our neighbour has joined with her in joining the naval and Euro-Union mechanisms. We do not overlook the real problems that exist across borders, such as organised crime, which is supposed to be faced with the establishment of the contact centre. However, individual areas of cooperation, such as immigration, extremism and radicalisation, always with the content of these concepts by the bourgeois classes, but also the assumption made in the preamble to the agreement on the definition of the common framework and the standards of cooperation in line with the requirements and rules of the European Union clearly confirms Albania's intention to integrate into the repressive framework of the European Union. The informal functioning of the centre, as it will not have legal personality, in accordance with Article 4, the exchange of information on public order and security threats and cooperation with other police and customs incorporation centres in accordance with Article 5, the exchange of information on emergencies or situations affecting the conduct of border control, Article 6, namely strikes and other manifestations of workers and the people, oral requests for information and answers in exceptional cases, in accordance with Article 7, shall demonstrate beyond doubt that this is an agreement establishing an integrated repressive mechanism that will apply the rules of the police methodology without any effective political control. In other words, the inclusion in the agreement on the protection of personal data in the exchange of information referred to in Article 12 plays no role but to throw ash in the eyes, in popular terms, and not because there is the intention to safeguard popular rights. As far as the memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Civil Protection and FRONTEX is concerned, the hospitality of an liaison officer in Greece is concerned, it is clear that the presence and action of the repressive euro-union reaction agency in Greece is even stronger. For the Communist Party of Greece, the assignment of part of our border guard to the mechanisms of the lupus alliance is an unacceptable event and a source of danger. This is evident from the first moment of action by FRONTEX in Greece, especially after the signing of the shameful EU-Turkey agreement on refugee, when the Greek governments themselves called FRONTEX as a supposed shield in Turkish aggression and a guarantor of the so-called 'Europe' borders'. His role is purely undermining. It presents the relaunches of migrants and refugees, which it itself coordinates, or in which it participates, as a result of the alleged security on the maritime border between Greece and Turkey. In addition, it adopts the natonic terminology for 'disputed maritime zones', which the Turkish coastguard exploits and develops so-called research and rescue with its own territorial boundaries. However, FRONTEX does not only act as a monitor for the control of the caging of refugees in Greece. It also pursues wider operational action. It also plays a successor role in Turkey's disputes against the Greek borders, and this is happening without actually referring to our country, but only to the European Union. The development and action of FRONTEX as a police agency for the pursuit and repression of refugees and migrants desperately attempting to approach Europe - a fortress has led thousands of refugees to the wet tomb of the Mediterranean. The new FONTEX operational regulation, in its broader implementation framework, which includes the memorandum of understanding being adopted, does not aim to put its operational actions under control or to stop the re-propulsions, the so-called "push backs", which lifted the cry of Europe's peoples. The aim is to extend even more jurisdictions. It assumes responsibility for unilateral action and for organising undertakings, falsely invoking the 'European borders', bypassing the Member State at whose borders these undertakings will take place. Nor will it, of course, give an account of issues relating to the sovereignty of the countries of the European Union, such as the Aegean. This is exactly the direction in which the Memorandum of Understanding for the Host of the Frontex Police Liaison in Greece, which the Government has brought for ratification. Even through the technical provisions of the memorandum, the profound reactionary nature of FRONTEX is demonstrated as a mechanism for suppressing the interests of the European Union, which in no way correspond to the interests of the people and our country, but also to the other peoples of the region. On the basis of this position, we are voting against the proposed bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u13	The reason for all four agreements will be the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Antonios Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin I should like to ask you a question and if you can answer it to us. What about this reform in the Greek police that you announced? We would like to hear what stage it is immediately after the bloody episode in Perama. Because what we need to keep in mind is that the Greek Police are a living organization that wants proper organization, proper education and commands that will be given to be simple and effective, understandable. Now you understand what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen, since previous Members have said about the pandemic, the pandemic is on the verge. And I would like to say, Minister, and to convey it to the Government and the Ministry of Health, that the 'truths' that he has been saying so far must be stopped. It must begin, even late - it has nothing to do with the recruitment of health workers, trained for what they want. That's the first. Secondly, primary health care must be done first in the minds of the Ministry of Health. We must start from there, because we are too far behind. Thirdly, no longer a monkey's METH. Let's leave the fairy tales, because so far it has been shown that from a thousand hundred, a thousand two hundred, a thousand three hundred ICUs - as each special official said and not - at the end of the five hundred were "a monkey". So we lost people from such things. If you want, listen to our opinion. These sanitaries, the heroes of the first few months, who are suspended and are experts in too many cases for COVID, must come back on rapid test every day. That's what I think they can solve. Another thing I want to say is this. I was really ashamed this morning of the incredible statements by Metropolitan Dodon, who said: "The instruments of Satan the invasive priests." 'They want to hang.' ‘Where no speech is leaking, a rod is piercing’. It's things a hierarch can't say. Make us a favor to speak only to doctors. Some who come to take two - three minutes of publicity say their brains. I now go through four sanctions. The first two are sanctions for protocols between Greece - Serbia and Greece - Montenegro for the readmission of citizens who do not have a licence in their countries. The readmission agreement between the European Community and Serbia, Minister, entered into force as from 2007, i.e. immediately after the division of the former Yugoslavia. We all understand what that meant. But it is now being updated. The European Union agreement, which you signed, gentlemen of SYRIZA, said Greece should be a country of readmission of all citizens of third countries, all illegal immigrants, that is, what Mrs Tasia Christodoulou said in 2015, that they come and are melted or fleeing. How many are there? Are they hundreds of thousands? Is it one, one and a half, two million? How many people have crossed our country and left, either in the Balkan countries or in the Visegrad countries or in the countries of Central and Northern Europe? So these people cannot return to our homeland. With this protocol, we are re-entering all those who illegally crossed our country, that is to say, as illegal immigrants. We remember what was going on at the Skopje border. We remember what happened when they left to Northern and Central Europe and now those who do not want to return to us. I think no reasonable man can vote for such bills. Those who left will stay there or return to their countries. We have trouble with our own people. The same is for Montenegro. Not, therefore, in both these sanctions of agreements, namely between Greece - Serbia and Greece - Montenegro for readmission of citizens from third countries. We now go to the two other sanctions, the ratification of an agreement between Greece and the Council of Ministers of Albania on the establishment and operation of a centre for police and customs cooperation signed in Cakavia in January 2021. First of all, as a simple reading, one would say that it is in the right direction. A border guard, a centre, which will have Greek and Albanian experts, customs, tax and administrative officials, who will mainly control what we have said many times, terrorism, the fight against organised crime, illegal immigration, drug trafficking. But here the Albanian authorities, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, cannot cooperate with the Greeks. They can't cooperate with each other either. We've seen Katsifa case. So Albanian justice can work with Greek justice on issues involving Albanian citizens or Greek citizens who will have a problem, a small or large crime, does it not matter in Albania? Can't we see our brothers' behavior with the Northcontinents? Don't we see the confiscation of their property? Aren't we not seeing all the things that are happening that allow for the pit that Albanians come into the villages of Zagori in the villages of Ioannina, Prevezi, are they plundering and getting up and going and going again to hide in Albanian territory? Now about this office. Article 10 - and we need to see this, because other things the Minister told us - says that Greece will arrange for the centre's office equipment, while operating costs, maintenance, power, heating etc. will be covered by Albania. Here, when you read the report of the State General Accounting Office in paragraph 4b, you will see that 150,000 euros will be required for office equipment and paragraph 4a 70,000 euros for the purpose of dealing with the costs of renovation, both internal and external, where the centre will be housed. So what's the matter? Is it true that we and the Albanians will have the other, or will we have everything, pay everything, and the Albanians will come here to do what they want to do? And in this ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and Albania on this centre for police and customs cooperation, the Greek Solution is voting negatively. I would like to say about Albania, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that last week in Athens in Tirana, for the Albanian President, who went to a report on the alleged genocide of the Chemistes. In the report there were maps, photographic material and even talking about supposed occupation of Albanian territories by Greece. These maps and photos have been posted outside the presidential palace. If there is some cooperation with those who govern there in Albania, I think that only you can see this thing. Finally, with regard to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Citizen Protection and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (FRONTEX) for hosting an Liaison Officer in the Hellenic Republic, it is indeed an international obligation of our country stemming from Article 31 of Regulation 1896/2019 of the European Union, which has immediate effect in the Member States of the European Union such as Greece. First of all, we have to say that Greece, Mr Minister, and you know it very well, is the only country where the rapid intervention units of the European Union's police force, FRONTEX, have come in, and so far they have not done what is expected. We have never seen the leader of FRONTEX here tell the reality that happens either in the Aegean Sea or in our north-eastern border with Turkey, in the Castanes and across the Evros river, but also in Bulgaria and Skopje, because that is where we have flows down from north to south. So, so far, the presence of FRONTEX here in Greece has almost gone unnoticed. They're coming, they're sitting, they're putting on the sunglasses, they're taking their pickets and they think they're guarding the border. If there were no Greek Coast Guard and the Greek Armed Forces, the Border Guard would have saved nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u15	Finish, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u16	Sure. I shall conclude, Mr President. The European Union has not imposed any sanctions on Turkey according to what FRONTEX is supposed to say. So what you want to bring, an officer, who will enter the ministries, will control, have the entire governance of FRONTEX, I think he must find us all opposing. And in this agreement the Greek Solution says no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u17	We are closing with Mrs Fotini Bakadima from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have four conventions that the Ministry of Civil Protection with Serbia, Montenegro, Albania and FRONTEX bring to ratification. I must begin by pointing out that the agreements with Serbia and Montenegro are two identical agreements and are an addition to the many similar readmission agreements that the European Union has concluded with neighbouring countries to build Europe fortress. The inhuman tactics used at the Union's borders, as well as the prevention transfer strategy in our neighbouring countries, are on a daily basis, not only from us, not just from the anti-population parties, but from every thinking democrat who understands and sees that, unfortunately, humanism tends to disappear from today's European Union. Unfortunately, the deterrent policy is no longer confined to the drastic measures aimed at stopping irregular arrivals. Immigrants and refugees are illegally expelled from Bulgaria, Greece and Spain without access to asylum procedures and often in ways that put them seriously at risk. They are abused and many countries are using the threat of prolonged detention as a deterrent for those who were thinking of coming to Europe. At the same time, this policy of deterrent is intended to create a deceased zone. In addition, this is the purpose of this type of agreement. The European Union and its Member States have financed reception and detention centres for immigrants and refugees in countries where serious concerns arise daily about the access of detainees to asylum procedures, such as Turkey and Ukraine. As Mera25, we have often been placed against these practices that serve no purpose other than the need for the New Democracy to touch its back together and collaboratively and with love and tenderness a audience considers to be missing and a serious electoral tank of it. As in all other times, we will now stand against the practices that are causing our country to adopt a non-humanist tactic, which is why we will vote against it. I'm going through the deal with Albania fast. It is an agreement on the establishment and functioning of a centre for police and customs cooperation and is made up of eighteen articles aimed at dealing with cross-border crime, illegal immigration, illicit drug trafficking, organised crime and other criminal activities. The specific centre will be set up, organised and operated on Greek territory at the border crossing of Kakavia. The staff will come from both countries. No one doubts the need to tackle cross-border, particularly organised crime or other forms of criminal activity. Furthermore, there are little cases where we learn and learn about synergies and joint action by criminal organisations in both countries. However, it is at least problematic to include them in these activities of vague and generalised illegal immigration. Furthermore, we consider that there is an important issue of personal data protection, which does not seem to be guaranteed without an asterisk within the Convention. That is why we shall vote'representations' in this particular case. I close with the fourth agreement, the one with FRONTEX, which consists of fifteen articles and concerns the hosting of an officer's association with FRONTEX in the Hellenic Republic. In fact, it is the application of the unacceptable and illegal European Union-Turkey Agreement that the then government of SYRIZA agreed in 2016, with which Turkey was "safe country" and turned Greece, our country, into a so-called shield of Europe, but in practice in a vast store of souls. Merra25's consistent position is the denouncement of this appalling agreement and the announcement of veto to the EU budget, until the Union agrees to the equal distribution of asylum seekers and the opening of borders within the EU. As a PARTA25, we have also proposed a series of measures concerning integration, but also the equal distribution and management of the refugee issue, which is, in fact, a flammable issue of our time. Of all my posts, my own and fellow Members of Mera25 all this time in and out of Parliament, it is reasonable and expected that our attitude and the vote against the fourth agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u19	Now we'll move backwards. From Mera25 there's no one here. From the Greek Solution the same. Mr Papapastasis spoke from the Communist Party. Mr. Kamines is here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u20	He was here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u21	If he wants, he will speak to Mr. Scandalides. Mr. Papaliou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief and will make just a few comments, firstly, on the general situation in the country today and, secondly, on the agreements that are being ratified which, as our rapporteurs have said, we will vote on. It is a fact that the country is experiencing a health crisis today, which is also an international one. However, the health situation in our country is constantly deteriorating and the government is responsible for not taking advantage of its time, firstly in order to shield the national health system and, secondly, to strengthen - perhaps even reshape - the primary health care which is a wall for the entry of patients with COVID into hospitals, which are now overcrowded and do not exist. And, as has been said by official lips - medically I mean, but not only - many ICUs have been set without specifications in a way that is not a ICU, so that we also have an increase in the number of deaths, the number of intact off-ICUs and the number of cases, and in particular a chaotic situation in hospitals, which, unfortunately, the government has turned into hospitals for a disease, so that the other diseases that have not been eradicated, are not treated and so the number of deaths is increased and, more generally, a situation which, in addition, strengthens the health sector is the orientation of the ND. But there is also the economic crisis. And yesterday, with the discussion at the level of party leaders, it was mainly the fact that the accuracy is the one that is affecting the large social majority. And the accuracy is that which does not have the international dimension you wanted to give, but has the policy pursued by the government and which, as the Prime Minister's speech has shown, is not dealt with, but is left, as you always say, on the market. In other words, a situation is left to the mercy of the market which creates huge problems, a problem of survival for households and businesses. Now, with regard to the agreements being ratified, I would like to say that, without doubt, cross-border crime, especially in the form of organised crime, must be dealt with. That is why international cooperation is needed, especially with neighbouring countries, and this is something that is included - regardless of details - in the agreements that are being ratified with Albania, Serbia and Montenegro. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The other dimension, which is linked to the refugee - migration flows, needs special attention, because it is essential to respect international rules and, above all, to respect human rights, which must be respected without delay and respected by the Greek state, which is not always done. In any case, I would say that human rights and respect for international law are the flag of the Greek state against Turkey's aggressive policy. That is why we must be very careful about this. And one last thing. Turkey's work on migration and refugee flows is the one which has been condemned to words, I would say, from the European Union's point of view, because we see two standards. The working of such flows by Belarus has implications for Belarus. Unfortunately, this is not the case with Turkey. On the other hand, we must stress that the European Union is not and should not be regarded as something different from us. Greece participates in the European Union with all the rights granted to it by the Treaties. Therefore, our country must negotiate with those who in the European Union are trying to impose their policies, defending its own national interests. So the Greek Government and the Greek state must go along with this, so that the refugee - immigration issue, which is a zealot issue for Greece, but also for other countries of the European Union, can be dealt with successfully, despite the fact that it is a matter linked to attacks that have even been carried out by European countries in third countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Papaliou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President. In addition, I would like to say that - and I think this is more important - the refugee - migration flows are not going to stop. After all, the history of humanity is a history of population movement. And the climate crisis, but other reasons, i.e. poverty, etc. They lead to such flows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u25	Mr Theocharis Theocharis from the New Democracy has the floor. The debate will then be taken by the Minister and the debate will be concluded. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although I am sad that in such a ratification as today, of course, I would say, we are forced by the parliamentary representatives to speak, we have to listen to rapporteurs who disagree. I cannot understand that, at least, in the way we in the New Democracy understand politics. Increasingly, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there are no ideological directions left or right in this Parliament in this parliamentary term. It seems to me that the moral conviction of moral responsibility is mixed. It seems that, on the one hand, we have an Opposition, which is sure of everything, has answers for everything and that justifies all kinds of criticism, failure everywhere, for example - or when SYRIZA was ruling to be successful everywhere, even though the policy was done with political buttocks - and, on the other, we seem to have a government, which recognises that we are in front of a world that is changing potential, where crises are coming by waves, which almost nobody just gets tired of mentioning. Talk about geostrategics? Talk about immigration? Talk about pandemic? Talk about an economic crisis, about the revaluations? You don't even have time to think about how to deal with them. And in each of these crises, the government's recipe is one. She recognizes her nature. It speaks to experts who can analyse and unravel out how to deal with and recognise that the situation is dynamic, which means that these measures are both dynamic and evolving, depending on how the various waves appear in each of these crises. Of course, we also hear the criticism that this dynamism is a lack of plan, that is to say to add or remove measures depending on whether the tide lifts the water or lowers it, this is considered a lack of plan. It's backwards. It is acknowledging the size of each of these crises and it is acknowledging that we need to change the methodology of dealing with this point, the specific phase that we have to face. We have today in front of us, for example, four agreements, two on readmission, one on FRONTEX and one on the Office for Cooperation with Albania. It is not the only cooperation office that we are working with. We have bilateral, as with Bulgaria and tripartite, which are already in operation. And now, this office of cooperation is very important. First of all, these agreements are agreements brought by the Ministry of Citizen Protection, precisely because it considers that we need to have a police that is operational, close to the citizen and extrovert, working together, getting information, giving information, not fearing cooperation and moving forward. At the same time, the government is implementing an immigration strategy, on the one hand - which is why we have a national migration strategy for the first time - and with a human face on the other. We cannot hear criticism, gentlemen, of the Greek Solution, that readmission agreements are agreements that make migration difficult. It doesn't mean you'll be able to return people back to the country they came from if you don't have read-out agreements. Both hands should be voted on and your vote on these two agreements should be double, at least. Immigration with a human face has specific implementation steps. First, prevent. And deterrence is done by reducing deaths, with a human face. Remember in 2015, when we left everything freely and where there were no sea borders, where the deaths were even a visual matter? Do we have this situation today? No, because the way we deal with it reduces death and reduces victims, reduces misery. As far as cooperation with FRONTEX is concerned, the government is not afraid of cooperation with him. This is not the case for all European countries. We have noticed - I think - everyone we know. We can read. The answer to unfounded accusations of push - backs and everything else is precisely cooperation with FRONTEX, because FRONTEX is also a guarantor of our country's right, good practice. Human structures. Those who eventually come and arrive in our country must have human treatment. And that's what's happened. This must also be done at the same time without much pressure on the municipalities. The municipalities are the ones who face and with funding - correctly - and without this pressure, being compressed into a municipality too many immigrants. We also have a speed in asylum to get the answers these people need in a human manner, with respect. If they are entitled to asylum, to take it and take it quickly. Not that the request for asylum is dragged out and cannot be released, so that people who have been given asylum can move in the right direction. And, of course, for the last part, for those who are not entitled to asylum, we must have the readmission procedures to return to their countries. I therefore do not understand the attitude of those who do not vote for the readmission agreement. With this strategy, our country has succeeded in making Greek borders European and European Union not hostage. Do not be a hostage to the traffickers and not be a hostage to those who use the traffickers. And that's a national success.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u27	Has the European Union understood that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u28	We hope, Mr President, that he understands it and understands it. Hopefully. We can't apologize for the behavior of others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u29	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u30	Sure. You're right. And the efforts of the government - and at European level - to make it clear that the success of our country is continuous and will continue at all moments and with all our forces. I shall close in a few words, because the wider issues of pandemic first have been mentioned. The government measures, ladies and gentlemen, are measures with dynamism, as I have said, and with responsibility and will begin and succeed. The world has been reinoculated to be vaccinated. This is very important. I just heard the day before yesterday, if I am not mistaken, the German Minister for Health, Mr Gens Spanna, say that we actually only have three options: either we are vaccinated or we are recovering or we are dying. This was a tough statement, which made a sense in Germany too. I think it would be good to think about it all of us when we have someone in our surroundings who is potentially afraid of a vaccine, of hug him, of helping him take this step. And let us all think about it, because not everyone has this clear, clear attitude, like the government, which has the New Democracy, in favour of vaccination. We must not continue to use the arguments of the anti-invasives. And unfortunately, we continue to listen to them in this Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u31	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u32	I shall close, Mr President, with one phrase in fact. Yesterday, we saw the Prime Minister announcing measures. On the one hand, we hear that the government does not understand the accuracy and, on the other, when it announces measures it is not enough. If we had a bag of dollars, which the old movie was saying, we could make and share. The government from the outset has kept the balance so that it has the budgetary power to support the citizens, whatever problem they may come. Remind you of the forward steps that we had to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Goddess, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u34	I'm hanging up. May I remind you, then, of the forward measures? Oh, no. The government, therefore, for an international phenomenon such as the accuracy - although our country is the third best in Europe, although it could and would be justified to reassure, triumph, do not do so - takes steps before the problem comes and adapts the measures - already three times the PPC adjustment has been made - and implements them. Why? Because she has a PPC that works and is her ally and not her opponent. That is, if you like, the difference in moral responsibility from the moral conviction that we hear from the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Mylonakis, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u37	For two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u38	The Minister must speak and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u39	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Mylonakis, you normally don't have the floor at all. Will you answer the parliamentary representative? Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u41	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u42	Here, speak for thirty seconds. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u43	I'm confused, Mr. President. I do not know whether Mr Theocharis is a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy or of SYRIZA. I don't understand that, and that's what he says...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u44	Look, Mr. Mylonakis. You don't have the floor anymore. No relationship. You won't say that now. What you're saying is personal reproach.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u45	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u46	These are not written in the Minutes. Have a seat. Minister, you'll take five minutes for the deal. That's enough. You'll take another five minutes because you'll probably have to answer, with one tolerance. Because it happened and I heard you yesterday, I want you to tell the people again through the National Representation about the course of the vaccination programme in the Greek Police, so that the various irresponsible people can stop going back to the channels and say their long and short, because what you said yesterday has nothing to do with what I was listening to until the day before yesterday. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the generous provision of time that will enable me to develop everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u48	I gave the others time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to the questions relating to the ratification of the agreements, I would like to refer to three issues which have already been discussed here by previous speakers and which certainly concern public opinion. Firstly, when it comes to reforming the Greek police, it is being implemented at a rapid pace, my dear fellow Member you have asked. Our main objective is for citizens to be and feel safe all, without discrimination, everywhere, throughout the country. In these days, a thousand policemen have already moved to the police station of Attica, where 70% of the crime is located, but unfortunately only 30% of the Greek police force. It has also been acted from November 2nd that from 10 every night until 6 a.m. a hundred extras fully staffed patrols of the Greek Police are moving across the Attica basin to protect citizens and to enable people to be safe and calm in their homes. Thirdly, we have strengthened the immediate action after the tragic incident of the Perama. Twenty additional police have moved to the Communications Service, at 100, so that when he calls a civilian in need of the police, he gets an answer immediately and there is a rapid response to what he needs. From Monday, there is the retraining of the entire forces of the Greek Police, starting with the group "DIA", which is the head of the spear of the Direct Action, and is the image and face of the Greek Police today, with important lessons that would help to make the work of our policemen very complete. We are pushing the project rapidly to implement in 2022 the provision of cameras for police officers operating in the field and for police patrols of the Direct Action, so that there is no possibility of injustice either of the police and of the civilians and of being aware of the reality. The digitalisation of the services of the Greek Police is taking place in order to free forces and commit themselves to their police work. One of these measures was announced by the Prime Minister himself yesterday. Now all citizens can do so through gov.gr, so you don't have to go to the police stations, which, as of 1 January, abolish all such communication with citizens with a physical presence in the police stations. I'd like to make something clear. I am the last to put the problems under the carpet and the last to bless our beards. That's the job we're doing, and we have to do it. We haven't solved all the problems. Of course, there are criminal matters. Here we are. We're all living. However, we are making a continuous and stable effort which is designed, controlled and monitored, and which is why all the forces of the Greek Police are working in a very friendly and substantial way. That is why I would like to ask my colleagues in the Staff Regulations not to resort either to lies or to excesses. Here it was said a moment ago that daily death contracts are carried out. Does he confirm that? The reality is here, everyone sees it, and we are all judged on how we deal with it. We will continue our efforts and I ask everyone to help in this effort so that there can be security for everyone everywhere. The second issue. On the issue of the vaccination of our police officers, the reality is as follows: the proportion of Greek police officers, about fifty-six thousand who are serving in the country, who have not been vaccinated and have not been ill is 20%. Over the last seventy-five days - I am talking about this period because it is the time that I have taken on the very responsible and important tasks of the Minister for Civil Protection - 9% of the police have been vaccinated. What does that mean? That the effort being made by all of us, by the whole government - I will accept that most of the political forces have helped positively to get the population vaccinated - the systematic effort being made within the Greek Police to discuss with police officers who have not yet been vaccinated to overcome fears, other views, other perceptions, misunderstandings - all this is human - has the effect. So we will continue on the path of persuasion. At the same time, everyone knows that the Greek police are at the forefront of the controls, has carried out over 90% of the controls throughout the entire period, has been instrumental in social cohesion in the country and there is no way a Greek police officer will not take all the appropriate steps to do his work with complete security for the citizens and for the police themselves. You will not find police officers to control civilians and not to wear a mask, not to take all the necessary measures and therefore no one should feel insecurity. I would like here to call on the Civic Opposition to avoid a very superficial temptation to use these issues to make a micro-participatory policy. Let the Greek police do their job. Let us continue along the path of unity, plan and solidarity in the difficult effort we have to face the horn pandemic. Thirdly, as far as pandemic itself is concerned, the whole of Europe is in such a pandemic wave. It is not only Greece that faces all these problems. I've never seen alternatives sound. The government fights in terms of unity, solidarity, social cohesion, supports citizens. Forty-two billion euros fell into the economy last time by the government, 8.5 billion went to private sector workers for the quarantine period. Don't underestimate these, ladies and gentlemen. It is money that each worker and every family needed to cope with the crisis. Yesterday, the Prime Minister in this Chamber from this Step announced new support for the health staff of the country, the low pensioners and the disabled. Do you agree or disagree with this support? Is there a good-for-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. I don't think there's anyone, and we all have to do this effort together to get out. Of course, it is unpleasant that human lives are lost. There is a very serious effort to be vaccinated and the rest of the population, to take all appropriate measures. Every day eight thousand men and women of the Greek Police are there and organise a very serious task of controlling the implementation of these measures. If we continue this effort together, I believe it will be much better and very useful for the whole society and the political system. As a government, ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly concerned about the fulfilment of the country's international obligations, the conclusion of agreements that shield national interests and promote bilateral regional and multilateral cooperation with neighbouring states, countries in the wider region, members of wider alliances. Today we are dominating the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Citizen Protection of the Hellenic Republic and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, FRONTEX, as we used to call it, for the hosting of an liaison officer in the country. We have certainly proved that we can defend the country's borders and security. We can defend them, and we are doing so to an absolute extent. It is our national duty that we will never stop implementing. The role of Europe, however, especially at a time when migration flows and related security challenges are intensified is important. Our borders are European borders. The intensity of the migratory phenomenon is reinforced by the major social and political developments in the countries of Asia and Africa, which, together with the fact of what is the geographical location of Greece, which extensive coastline we have and the number of our islands, make the issue extremely complex. This data underlines the need both for the establishment of the first FRONTEX operational office in Piraeus and the placement of a liaison officer of this organisation in our country. I would point out that this liaison officer will always work in full cooperation with the Greek authorities and access to information and facilities is the responsibility and responsibility of the Greek side and that I think it should be clear. This regulation is of great importance because it strengthens our cooperation with FRONTEX and allows us to manage migration flows more effectively. At a time when Turkey is again threatening to work unhappy people, with various factors trying to slander Greece, it is crucial that we have the presence of European officials, who are undisputed witnesses of reality, our attempt to save lives and at the same time protect our borders that are common European borders, always with respect to the principles of international law. We move on to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the establishment and operation of a common contact centre in Cakavia at our place for police and customs cooperation. It is an agreement that is important because it contributes to establishing good relations between the two countries and to strengthening our already existing cooperation with a view to tackling and combating the current security challenges and threats that exist for both countries. The functioning of joint contact points is widespread in Europe, as they are best practice for the direct exchange of information between the law enforcement authorities in the fight against all forms of organised crime, drugs, illegal immigration, extremism, etc., substantially assisting in the work of operational services. I would like to point out that this agreement and the subsequent establishment of a bilateral contact centre with Albania has certainly attracted the positive interest of many countries and will be the subject of an assessment of our country on the eve of the European Commission. We also ratify the Protocol between the Governments of Greek democracy and the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Serbia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, respectively, and the Agreement between Greek democracy and the Government of Montenegro, always in the context of our operation as a Member State - the European Union and the multidimensional foreign policy pursued by our Government. I therefore call on the National Representation to vote positively on the legislative provisions which fulfil the country's international obligations and serve our national interest absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u51	Mrs. Kafantari, it's not predictable. I abusively gave you the floor to the Parliamentary Representatives. Make a topical question to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u52	We did, but the Minister raised two issues here. That is what we want an answer to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u53	I'm sorry, and because he said, will we turn the contracts into a timely question? It can't be done, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u54	Okay, but not a minute to ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u55	Before he goes, ask him and tell you. You're gonna stay asking him. As far as I understand it, Mr Minister, the rate of the vaccination programme in the Greek Police is above the average of vaccination in the general population, much higher. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Civil Protection and their vote will be taken separately. We proceed to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection ‘Principle of the Protocol between the Governments of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u57	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u58	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘The Protocol between the Governments of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’, was accepted by a majority of the institutions of the European Community and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u59	We proceed to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the establishment and operation of a centre for police and customs cooperation". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u61	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u62	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the establishment and operation of a centre for police and customs cooperation’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u63	We proceed to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Citizens' Protection: ‘Definition of the Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Montenegro on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u65	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u66	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Definition of the Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Montenegro on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’, was accepted by a majority of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u67	We proceed to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Citizen Protection: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding" between the Ministry of Citizen Protection of the Hellenic Republic and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) for hosting a Frontex Officer in the Hellenic Republic". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u69	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u70	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Citizen Protection: ‘Following the Memorandum of Understanding (‘PRC’) between the Ministry of Citizen Protection of the Hellenic Republic and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) for hosting a Frontex Officer in the Hellenic Republic’ was accepted by a majority of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u72	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-23-S1-commons.u73	With the consent of the House at 11.53' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 24 November 2021, at 11.00, with the subject of an anniversary report: 'The European Day for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sex Abuse'.
