ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are now entering the debate on the FURTHER QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the following questions will be discussed today: The fourth under number 222/26-11-2021 is a topical question for the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection on the subject: "New Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection". It will be answered by the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, Mr Stylianides. The first under number 221/26-11-2021 topical question by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Stage Insurance for all - Constitutional obligation of the state”. It will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Michailidou. The second question under number 218/26-11-2021 of the Second Cycle of the Member of State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Electronic wiring in the medieval villages of Chios". It will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Amyras. The seventh question under number 225/26-11-2021 of the Second Cycle of Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Removing the producer attestation for the installation of a five-story wind farm in the Municipal Unit of Stavros Municipality of Karystos’. It will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Amyras. The fifth under number 231/29-11-2021 topical question for the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "PO: New port of cruise in Piera, lasting environmental pollution from broken cement box". It will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Amyras. The third under number 232/29-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Ikaria and Forens: A hundred and fifty wind turbines are threatening the natural ecosystem with dissolution". It will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Amyras. The fifth question under number 664/25-10-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The rough announcement by the Government of the transfer of forest services to the RIS does not go any further and create problems for forest employees", pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. It will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Amyras. The third question under number 652/25-10-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Pappas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Colyssire and acceptance of the positions of the contractor by Mr Karamanlis, stopped the flooding work in the Municipality of Nice, Ag. Ioannis, Moschato-Tavrou, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karagiannis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for Development and Investment, Economic, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection and State, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Interior tabled a draft law on December 3, 2021: "Fair Development Going and regulating more specific issues of liberation". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The following questions will not be discussed after consultation: The first under number 213/22-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In despair the citizens of western Athens, due to serious shortages in primary health care structures (PVO)". The fifth question, under number 223/26-11-2021, of the second question of the Messinia MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros (Alexis) A gift to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘The inertia of the Government to take support measures leads to the collapse of the income of thousands of Corinthian grape producers’. The sixth under number 224/26-11-2021 topical question by Mr Georgios Born to the Minister of Health, on "Renew immediately fixed-term contracts for workers in the cleanliness, feeding and preservation of the health structures of the ESS". The ninth under number 230/29-11-2021 topical question of the second question of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In spite of declarations, no progress in the rights and health coverage of people living with HIV". We will not discuss the tenth question under number 234/29-11-2021 in the Second Cycle of MP I East Attica of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Spirtzi, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "Direct action to protect public health and prevent the dispersion of COVID-19 from complying with the rules on social dismissal by invasive policemen". We will not discuss the fourth question with number 660/25-10-2021 of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Florinas of the Radical Left Coalition (Fetis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Problem regarding the government's planning for special and local town planning projects". The eighth question will not be discussed under number 229/29-11-2021 in the context of the second-round question by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Sultanna (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on ‘New data after Commissioner Schmitt's answer to strengthen “Energean Oil & Gas”. We will not discuss the second question by number 227/29-11-2021, first question by the Member of Parliament, Atolokarnania, of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Direct payment of aid to producers in Itolokarnania". We will not discuss the first question with number 364/15-10-2021 of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP B1' North Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Taking risks from flooding phenomena will be discussed. The second question under number 452/17/19-10-2021 will not be discussed and an application for the submission of documents of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP B1' North Athens Department of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Action for the implementation of anti-military and anti-corruption works". The third, with number 228/29-11-2021, timely question for the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Enlargement instead of solving the problems of the earthquake affected in Arkalochori" and the fourth question under number 219/26-11-2021, the first question of the Greek Parliamentary State of Solution Mr. Vassiliou Viliardou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Special liquidation of “LARCO” and its value assessment, will not be discussed in consultation, because the Minister is at Eurogroup. We will begin with the third with the number 652/25-10-2021 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Papas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Colycirection and acceptance of positions of the contractor by Mr Karamanlis have stopped the flooding work in the Municipality of Nice, Aghios. Ioannis, Moschato - Tavros". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karayannis. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Karayannis, I'm sure you know about the project. But here we have one case in which I do not know whether or not interests were favoured, the essence is that the project has been stopped and we have no indication of what you intend to do, whether you will ask the region to reopen it, whether you will get it on you or not. Here, what concerns us very much is that it was an ongoing contractor, we are talking about the anti-military work of the municipalities of Nice, Rentis and Moschatos - Tavros, in which the contractor applied for a break-up in 1920, while he had started and worked since 19 on the administration of Durus in the region. It has begun, signed the contract and implemented the project. It shall make a request for termination of work, reject its request both from the region and from the relevant Council of the Ministry of Infrastructure, reintroduce a request for suspension of the contract. It delays the Ministry to answer and Mr Karamanlis comes afterward to adopt almost as a photocopy of the contractor's claims, in other words to allow him not to become lesser, delays in answering and enables him to make use of the time limits beyond which the contractor is declared finalized and finalized anyway. So here we have one case in which - you know the region, I am sure - we have not only the great anti-military that the Attica Region has frozen it, which goes from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to Kifissos, the big channel, so that people and buses are almost drowned into submarines, but we also have this work, which has been frozen. Allow me to derogate, Madam President, to say a word about the delays in the EN65 and the cessation of payments from the ESDP and the Public Investment Programme. All the technical world is in despair right now. I understand that it is not the subject of the question, Minister, but the news is running and there are issues that really are burning. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Pappa, first of all, I wish you many years for your nominal holiday. I would like to say very sincerely that the style of the question you have tabled was very different with your current position. But I must confess to you that, when I read the contents of your question, I also felt wondered and thoughtful. I wondered why I saw your first-first name and we all recognise that you were a leading member of the SYRIZA government, who had the fate of the country for the past five years, as well as because thirty-two Members signed up to me, which makes it seem to me that they did not know the real facts concerning a very large degree and your government, which had the responsibility of the country in the past few years, but also a concern about the behaviour and logic of Officerial Response on the important infrastructure projects that in any case - we recognize and we would like to believe - all together in the Greek Parliament should want to be implemented. In principle, let me make two comments. It is clear that at the moment there is a confusion with regard to the procedures, as well as the composition of the Public Works Council, as well as those relating to public works contracts. And the second - you rightly mentioned it, but let me stress it - is that the project is being carried out exclusively by the Region of Attica and that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, did not have any involvement in the implementation or management of the project. Now, in the written text of your question, you refer to methods by the Ministry that led to the closure of work and the dismantling of the contract. It is obvious - and I do not give any credit to this - that because of the incorrect information you have provided you with, a misconception of what has been mediated and why the project has been unable to carry out. Two words will allow me to tell you only about the history of the work, so that everyone can understand what we are talking about in this Chamber. The project was launched in 2018 by the Region of Attica. It was compromised in 2019 by Mrs. Duru, a few days before the elections. This means, Mr Pappa, that the maturity of the work, the auction and the signature of the contract took place throughout the days of the Douro administration. Here we should all conclude that as good management and anyone who is in the administration and the contracting authority, the intrinsic weaknesses, the structural weaknesses that Mrs Duro's administration has failed to resolve before the tender of the project, are difficult to overcome and with mathematical accuracy they result in the inability to complete the project and create conditions for the Greek State to pay compensation. During the performance of the project, Mr Pappas, all the above failures appeared and there were particular difficulties and delays in its implementation due not only to one issue, but to a great deal. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Allow me, Madam President, one more minute. These are due to the issues of expropriation, the displacement of OKO networks, the archaeology, but mainly to the shortcomings or omissions of the studies with which the project was auctioned. You mentioned the history and you have it in your question, and I think it is of no importance to repeat it. At this point I would just like to tell you that when the contractor objected to the decision of the Attica Region, it came to the Public Works Council, it was examined - the Public Works Council should also recognize that it is a high prestige council - and its decision was brought to a balance, four-four. Because that's the reality. So the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, has based what is stated in the opinion and adopted a decision, accompanied by the decision of the Legal Board of State, always having a unique view, in the public interest. Why, let me tell you, in public works, should not hide the problems under the carpet, because the next person will find them. Because either on one occasion or on the other, Mr Pappas, the Greek taxpayer will pay the compensation, with the only difference to guarantee that we would in one case lead to long-term legal disputes and prevent your interest and yours in the flooding of the region. If this is reproached for you by the Minister, for us it is a strategic option. It is a choice of responsibility and seriousness to be responsible where they belong rather than to go to easy convictions that would lead - and be sure of that - to multiple burdens for the public in the future. So, Mr Pappas, the questions you ask us - and it is good that you ask, for clear answers to be given - should have put them first to Mrs Durou, who was the District Administrator of Attica, to answer whether she had completed studies and the necessary permissions to auction the project and she also had a misconception and whether she had completed the necessary expropriations. In order not to abuse your time, however, Madam President, for all the other answers I shall return to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I think that everyone who is following political things should not have been surprised by your reply, Mr Karayannis. It's Dure's fault. In other words, Duru designed the project, started the contractor, did not raise any objections when she started implementing it, and when you and the administration of Patoli apparently saw light and entered. And well, the Durus didn't plan it well, as you claim. Didn't the contractor see these or is Duru so capable and convinced that the relevant board of the Ministry of Infrastructure would reject the objections to a grade one? Watch what you say, Mr. Karayannis. The Minister adopted the minority positions and also enabled the contractor to pass the time, to extend the deadlines, and justly to terminate the contract. And let's say, here we can sit and fight, it's just about what happened or not. Will you tell us what you intend to do now? Is the project going to be done? Don't tell us now that it's a strategic choice what you're doing. Acts that mean making claims on the Contractor's side. He pays the public. It was not the guarantee of the gentleman who said he had objections to the studies, the public utility networks, with expropriations. However, this was rejected by both the regional services and the relevant council of the Ministry, Mr Karayannis. Do not come here to assimilate and reproduce his arguments, which the competent authorities rejected. And I repeat, we are an Opposition accelerating public works. We want to see public works done. Thank God for five billion direct assignments you have given as a government. We will not spoil the world if you take the appropriate measures so that these critical projects can go ahead and be implemented. On the contrary, the inhabitants of southern Athens make their cross without a new waterproof. So there I would like very clear answers. And I ask you very much, do not miss - it may not be your Ministry's competence - to tell us about the issue of the ESRB and the PPC, which have completely stopped payments to all projects and contracts have been solved, precisely because there are no anticipated payments, but also on the major issue of the E65, where we would expect a talk from you, because the counties, both Central Greece and Thessaly, are anxiously waiting to see this project being implemented. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u7	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Poppa, I'm sure if you had the full details of the project available, you would agree with what I mentioned in my prototype. It is understandable, I imagine, that this project belongs to the Attica Region, that the Attica Region implements it and not the Ministry of Infrastructure. But I would also like to know you another thing that might escape you and did not mention it, but we as government are here to remind you of it. This project is being implemented for the first time in Greece the Integrity Pact with funding from the Directorate-General for Regional Policy and Urban Development of the European Union. The Integrity Pact is an agreement signed between the International Transparency of Greece, the contracting authority and the economic operators offering tenders for the purpose of a single: strengthening transparency, as well as promoting access to information. Mr Pappa, I would like to ask you this: Have you read the reports of the Independent Observer? I shall therefore put it before you and your colleagues to read it and then, if you will, we can come back. However, I am particularly surprised that such an important initiative that has been implemented in cooperation with an independent institution to monitor an important project for southern Athens is extinguished on your part, although you mention so many details, so many detailed references to the project history in your question. I can't believe you ignored them. I think they didn't give you that clue. But because I submit it to the Minutes, Mr. Pappa, please read it. And what he says confirms the rhetoric and the opinion - drawn up with him by the Minister - the Legal Council of the State. Because Costas Karamanlis was drafted with the view of the Legal Council of the State. And I suggest to all Members that they read it. That's the reality, Mr. Pappa. Unfortunately, it exposes you. I'm guessing it's more about your partners than about you, but you can't in this room, directly, do the white-black. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, let me tell you that together with Kostas Karamanlis we are not planning works of abstract art. They mature with systematic and methodical work, with realistic timetables, breathing projects that change all of this environment. It is an important work that you mentioned. And that is why we are in contact with the periphery, to see how this whole project will go ahead. Because the region also realized how immature it was when it auctioned it. Will the money be lost? The Attica Region has informed us that the project has not responded and will join the next programming period. But you know what else they answered us? That even added an expropriation sub-project that is carried out in collaboration with OKO, to move the networks and - rightly you mentioned it a little while ago - to be able to auction the project so that the people of southern Athens have a project that they need. But that, Mr Pappa, should have taken place before 2018. It would be inconceivable for me to claim that such work by anyone who sought to continue, in this way, would not be an economic haemorrhage for the Greek public. I do not want to come back because I think that the figures we have submitted to you, together with the decision of the Public Works Council, will be available to you to read them, so that you will understand what has happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. Subsequent to the first with number 221/26-11-2021, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "House security for all - Constitutional obligation of the state". The question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Security, Mr Domna Michailidou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the lack of housing is a real problem, which exposes the state, because it is a profound humanitarian problem affecting the values of the modern rule of law. The more the homeless in our country, the less the rule of law we have. On this point I would like to thank the Greens who have raised this issue and contributed to its emergence, but also to the resolution of this particular issue of homelessness. Madam Minister, we raise four issues with the question. First, for the first time an attempt was made to register the homeless in 2018. So we ask the government: This effort continues and how? Is this going to continue trying to record the homeless? Secondly, what is homeless access to health services and work? And to remind us that unfortunately there was a symptom interpretation in the law in 2020 compared to 2012 of who is considered homeless, so that a lot of people are not considered homeless. For homeless, Minister, it is not only the one who sleeps in the street, but the one who - is the so-called hidden constellation - stays in accommodation without electricity in a clipboard accommodation. Thirdly, how are public buildings being used to satisfy housing needs? Fourthly, do we expect you to tell us what the specific actions, from the NSRF, from the Recovery and Resilience Fund, which will be channelled to cover living and housing needs? And if from the national poverty plan, which we expect you to tell us where it is, there are actions specific to the fight against homelessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u11	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we are a government which, Mr Kokalis, two and a half years now, I think, can be summed up in three main axes: the protection of the most vulnerable in the pandemic, but at the same time, an increased emphasis on child protection and at the same time the strengthening of the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable. Inside the most vulnerable are, of course, the homeless. You referred to four questions. I think I'll manage to answer all fours. Maybe it'll take some time from denology. For the co-financed programme, which has two axes, firstly, the recording of the homeless and, secondly, synergies between central government, local government and individual bodies in order to properly deal with the constellation, a pilot project was indeed carried out in 2018. The continuation of this pilot project in only some cities in Greece, where registration was made with a university that was then used, continues in March 2022. The General Secretariat of Social Solidarity and Combating Poverty continues this effort in March 2022, as well as methodologically within the pandemic. But we all realize that recording in itself is not the main tool. Recording is a legitimate, essential mechanism, a mechanism that it needs, but which does not itself constitute the support of the homeless. The homeless are supported by policies, with very targeted aids. First of all, it is interconnected through the online platform, so that individual entities, local administration, in which sleeping rooms, in which homeless structures there are places, so that there are no automatically overlap and a homeless person, but also the social services of the municipality, can know the information about who can be hosted where, but also in the morning, in the day, in a center of the day. In the same way, there has been substantial action and substantial aid from that government. I am talking about aid for both the amount of aid, that is to say, the whole amount of funding, but also the part of the recipients' tank. What do I mean in particular? Increasing the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income by 15% for this year in two hundred and sixty thousand households and families. Increase in housing allowance in two hundred and seventy thousand households by 34% this year. And after very specific, targeted aid with benefits, such as the minimum double-dose guaranteed in December, as the Prime Minister himself requested. But - and I'm closing with it - we specifically corrected a very great injustice, Mr. Kokalis, and that is an injustice that I found here and to be you and to be absolutely honest I didn't think there could be. By 2020, when this Parliament voted on it, little guaranteed income was not taken homeless and abused women living in hospitality. We have now broadened the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income and incorporated these most vulnerable people. Who? The homeless ones you testified for and your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u13	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u14	Madam Minister, I will partly agree that recording is not the main tool. But I will disagree with what you may have omitted, and you may agree with me in your dentistry, that it is the first tool. If we don't record the homeless, how will the benefit beneficiaries then be recorded? You said in your prototype that in March 2022 the homeless logging program that was launched in 2018 pilots will continue. We'll wait for it, we'll see. Secondly, you know, now that bankruptcy law is actually being implemented, Minister, there will be people who will lose their homes. There's no first home protection. I would like to ask if your Government intends to adopt the model in force in many European countries of social housing by making use of buildings, public property and by making use of unknown property from the register. Of course, this is not about the present. We have pointed it out several times with questions that they may contribute the unknown property of the Stock Exchange to social housing, because housing needs will increase very much. But I am waiting for you, Minister, to tell us whether there are and whether you have planned concrete actions from the Recovery Fund to combat homelessness and whether the national poverty plan includes or provides for actions specific to the fight against homelessness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u16	Madam President, Mr Kokalis, of course, let us also inform you and the National Representation of the resources that have been guaranteed, both from the state budget and from European funds, such as the Recovery Fund. I would like to remind you that in the same law, under Law 4756/2020, which this Parliament voted in favour, in addition to the integration of the homeless into the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, what we have done is that we have also established the Housing and Work programme as a permanent public programme, in which the state gives 10 million euros to municipalities, so as to ensure social inclusion of homeless people, whether they are individuals or in households. What is our "House and Work" program doing? He does three very important things. Firstly, it ensures wage and non-wage costs for a year for people who are integrated and run by the municipalities. Secondly, it ensures that these people have been rented for two years, so that if they do not continue the same job in the first year, since they will now have come out of the labour market not financed by the State, they can have aid and not leave state support directly. And thirdly, along with the rents of these people, as a state, we come and support their TECs, their bills and the cost of their buildings. So, a full approach and full help from the state, so that we can help these vulnerable people in the part of social reintegration, as well as reintegration or integration into the labour market. Now, as you asked me about social housing and what resources we have secured from the Recovery Fund, I would like to say that we have set up the "Creation of a Social and Financial Residence Network" programme with over 1.5m euros from the Recovery Fund, so that we can do this: Starting from two cities, starting from Athens and Thessaloniki, we offer three things. We offer a renovation, if you like, to homes that are privately owned and are in such conditions that they need some help, so that our economically vulnerable fellow citizens can stay there. We offer money to the municipalities so that they do the recording of these houses, so that there is a record where someone can find what is going on. And thirdly, we are motivating homeowners to put them in the register of vulnerable social housing and to know that they have secured their rent, the low rent, which the state will be able to give the owner the security that he will pay, but of course also tax incentives, so that the owner of the house can join this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u17	And I thank you very much for being consistent in your time. We move on to the second with number 218/26-11-2021, a topical question from the Member of the State of Change of Georgios Kamine to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Electronic cording in the medieval villages of Chios". The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Amyras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, there's a rotation of the roles. You've been asking me questions before on the city council, now I'm addressing you. Undersecretary, about a month ago, I was in my special homeland in Chios, and I met there with the presidents of the local communities of southern Chios in the region of Mastichohoria, where there were many traditional settlements of great historical and cultural value in the Byzantine period. The residents want to stay there, but they want the settlements to be alive all year long. They want to be real live, local cells. There is the problem that anyone who goes to renovate their home or buys a new home is obliged to proceed with substituting the cables. And unfortunately, this cost of subjugation is passed on to the owners, and this costs too much, and not only will people be subjected to costs, but also subjugation be fragmented and delayed. In the past, there have been proposals to integrate cables into European programmes, in the ESDP. I wonder if there is a corresponding proposal now, especially for the Recovery Fund. If there's no, I'd like to know if there's anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr Kamin, yes, in fact, a few years ago, I asked you questions on the municipal council and you've always answered me documented and practically ever since, and I can say that I have not had an unnoticed interest not only in Athens, but also in other regions of Greece, how much more for Chios and its medieval villages, which are signs of cultural and historical high interest not only for Greece but also worldwide. I imagine you have a lot of experience from Chios, just like us to some extent. Anyone who walks to Pirgi, Mesta, Olympus, the other wonderful medieval villages, Kalamati, Armolia, realises that we are talking about live museums of history and Greekity and an exceptional architectural particularity. First of all, we must say that the Greek state over time - and that we must recognise - has shown interest in the traditional villages in Chios. By two Presidential Decrees, the first and second in 1988, the villages were termed 'traditional settlements'. These two decrees therefore set out the conditions and conditions for all the technical work to be done if one has a home there, but mainly for the infrastructure of general interest. First of all, to say that the medieval settlements of Chios were powered by PPC in the 1960s and even to its honor, PPC proceeded with subjugation of the cables. I guess you don't talk about air cables that exist today or you have to choose. It's a different patent for PPC, I'll report it right after. However, PPC had moved on to the suburbs since the 1960s, long before traditional settlements were determined. How, then, is the electricity that you are asking me a few questions about today? So, insulated cables were used, which were placed on the walls of the houses along with power distribution boxes in the shades of the masonry, special structures were required using stone and other building materials, and thus the state protected the landscape and the architectural heritage of the medieval villages. What are residents and owners doing? They raise an issue of their financial burden in the case of new electricity or modifications of existing electricity. Because, as I told you, during the 1960s, the cables have been on the ground and the insulated wires are on the wall for each house. So if a owner wants to rebuild, or if he wants to make some changes there, it's actually a burden on the basement. However, TEDDEE is obliged for every project on the electricity grid to prepare a technical study that sends it to the relevant Byzantine Antiquities Ombudsman to be approved. If the Antiquities Committee approves this technical parameter and this technical project, i.e. substituting for new connections or amending existing ones, then the TEDDAH is asking for financial participation - as you quite rightly said - by the citizen concerned and only then does the work begin. In my dentistry, I will tell you exactly what we are all about and what programmes are running - I say it now and I shall analyse it in my dentistry - the Recovery Fund. We have put the cost of substituting, so that we can also remove that burden from the citizens. But I would point out that we are talking about new connections or modifications to existing ones. The rest of the work had been done in the past few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I have here and I am presenting in the minutes the request from the resident of Kalamati, dated 1 March 2018, where TEDDAH answers to him, the Department of Chios Region, and in fact informs the citizen that the cost of this link is 3,600 euros. [[At this point Mr Georgios Kaminis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You will, I believe, agree with me that it is a very large amount that the citizen is asked to pay together with all the costs incurred by the renovation of his residence. And you know that in the very cases of preserved buildings and monuments these costs are excessive because there are special conditions. So, finally, the cost of electrifying someone under the conditions you mentioned amounts to what can be reached, from what I was informed by the presidents of local communities, even at 5,000 euros. I said in my prototype that it is absolutely essential that these settlements remain alive throughout the year and not just depend on tourism revenue. The pandemic has come to an end, it is enough for national crises to take place with the neighbouring country to see how fragile an economy is when it is based solely on tourism. I therefore expect to hear whether the state will help reduce the burden on the inhabitants of these regions on electricity. Just for the record to mention that the subjugation of the cables had announced it for study and integration in the NSRF of the period 2021 - 2027 the former Mayor of Chios, Mr Michael Vournos. I would therefore like us to know whether the Ministry has finally completed a study either by the municipality or by other means, whether there will also be European or other resources, in order to solve this major problem which is agitating the southern villages of Chios and, in particular, traditional settlements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Kamin, the full subordination and concealment of the cables of the electricity distribution network in the medieval villages indeed presents many technical requirements and difficulties. There are roads with great narrowness that are geometrical. There are corrosive or dispersed surfaces of large stone walls. There are other technical problems relating to the over-year construction of these buildings. All this, therefore, is causing difficulties and unresolved issues in particular to residents who want to renovate their homes, to do some technical work, and therefore, under law, the cooperation of the owners is overreliable. Nevertheless, the government, having been fully aware and conscious of the particular problems and high costs faced by residents in the medieval villages, has been intrinsically integrated through the DEDDIE to the Recovery Fund for the grounding of parts of the low-voltage network we are talking about at Mesta, Pirgi, Olympus, Kalamati and Anavatos, and we are willing to incorporate more. For the NRF that you asked me, Mr Kamin, of course, I would like you to urge the presidents of local communities, with whom you are speaking and have taken these issues - I imagine you yourself in your visits to Chios will have seen them - to show, to give interest to those responsible in the rest of the municipalities, so that they can submit NRF programmes for relapsing these medieval villages and the TEDDEE undertakes - it is committed, we have contacted him, we have it in writing - 50% of the cost of substituting. So I told you how many villages we've put into the Recovery Fund in the basement. Citizens will pay nothing there. And for the rest of the villages, the municipalities must move a little more drastically, who will submit the corresponding programmes to the NSRF and 50% of the costs will be borne by TEDDA. So the citizens won't pay anything. So we need a joint effort. We, of course, stand by the inhabitants of the medieval villages. We respect their cultural heritage, their special architecture and, of course, the sensitivity and weakness of many of the owners to participate in the subordination costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too, Minister. Next, the fifth under number 231/29-11-2021 is a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "PRO: New port of cruise in Piera, lasting environmental pollution from broken cement box". The Minister for the Environment and Energy will also answer Mr Amyras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, this is a lasting crime that's happening in the PPA. There's a strong movement over there, which keeps revealing the violations. Nevertheless, crime continues. Specifically now we are talking about a cement box, which has been submerged. It's made a decision from the court that they don't go ahead with the works until it's up. The authorities were notified that he was up and went to the movement and found with sounding that he's in there. On 27 November 2020, he was transferred to the maritime area of the Passenger Port Cruise the second celled cedar with CI-14 distinctively. In the next few days photographic and video footage of the Pieraic Observatory revealed that there was a blur. If the movement did not highlight it, no question would have arisen. Everything would be fine, even though it had become this huge environmental crime in there. Insurance measures were submitted on December 9, 2020, on December 10, following a trifle dismantling of land blocks of about twenty thousand tonnes next to the burial monument of Themistoklis. On 16 December 2020, the Piraeus Court of First Instance gives the provisional order for interim interim interim measures, where, in substance, the removal in accordance with the laws and scientific methods of the case, which took place on 28-11-2020 in the marine area of the project carried out by the cruise port in Piera is conditional. On July 11, 2021, the Department of the Environment of Attica carried out an autopsy and found the dispersal of bazaars and sinks during the filling of cinnamon boxes. Despite repeated complaints by the Petroleum Observatory about material leakage, work has not been stopped over there. The Piraeus Observatory has also done research through soundproofers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Since the broken case is active waste and according to the existing legislation it had to be removed within three to five months and the technical company that has undertaken the project began to break the contract with a gravitational sphere without having submitted a technical environmental study, the Ministry questioned how and how the methods were investigated and found on the legal and scientific basis the complete removal of the case into the marine space where the works are carried out. The Ministry also asked what information the Ministry was about that the case had been removed on 13 October and gave the "green light" for the continuation of the project, while the Piraeus Observatory has further certified with brick-mechanical investigations that by 31 October, half a month later, there were still residues of the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Arseni. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr Arsenis, at the heart of our government policy, the policy of the Mitsotakis Government is very clearly the protection of the environment, much more of the aquatic environment, which also takes over the largest geographical area of the country. I remind you of a commitment that the Prime Minister announced from the Marseille Conference and the work of the IUCN, saying that our aim is to put 30% of the Greek seas under protection, one third of which will be completely protected, which means that no one can fish or do other activities on these points. And we believe very much in protecting the aquatic world, we believe very much in the 'blue economy' with sustainability, which is why we are in complete communication and cooperation first and foremost with fishermen, with fishermen, with people living in the sea. Now let's go see your very specific work and theme. For this purpose, the project of the PPA for the operation of the port of Piraeus and the construction and operation of its improvement and expansion projects, including the southern extension of the passenger port to create a cruise centre, applies the environmental conditions of the decision that the Ministry of the Environment, the Department of Environmental Licensing, had adopted on 11 December 2020. For the record, the decision is 94701/5991. This Decision, which is fully justified, includes all necessary measures to prevent and deal with marine pollution. It is worth mentioning that the environmental conditions of this decision do not include an obligation to submit a technical environmental study to break and remove the cement cracked box. It is therefore clear that any project is being or still has to comply with the environmental conditions that have been mentioned in the decision I have given you. The Department of Environmental Licensing of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which has received repeated complaints, has acted within the framework of its competences. So we have done, that is, the services, self-consciousness from April 2021 to October 2021, in order to find out what works are going to be done with the use of a hammer, and we have in every way pointed out that all the operations in question must be complied with. Let me point out, of course, that the service of our Ministry of the Environment, Madam President, does not have any responsibility for supervising, implementing and implementing technical projects, nor even for monitoring and monitoring technical control in the process of carrying out it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] It is therefore not competent to approve the continuation or interruption, non-approval of the project and has not been notified to it of any such decision by any competent authority. In my dentistry, however, I will tell you about the autopsy we have done, the administrative fines imposed and the rest of the control mesh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you mean to say that you've searched the ground with a hammer and found that there was no pocket? I really want you to document the scientific basis of this measure. I'm still going to point out to you what the responsibility is for the Ministry. The decision of the Court of First Instance of Piraeus on 16-12-2020 on a provisional order for interim interim measures allows the contingencies to continue under four conditions, the first of which is to be removed according to the legal and scientific methods of the canteens erupted on 28-11-2020 in the marine area of the work carried out. How did you certify that this jar has been removed? What are the guarantees you have that she came out of the sea? How do you explain that the citizens, the Piraeus Observatory, have sent photographic and video material confirming that on November 3, 2021, the attachment to the position where the crash was present began and continued until November 6, 2021, and has it sent you the evidence that the axe is still there? That is why I come back and ask in what approved way, by what method you have investigated and found on a legal and scientific basis the complete removal of the jaw to give the "green light" to continue the work, which is ongoing, and the jaw is in there, on the bottom.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I repeat, therefore, that the Department of Environmental Licensing does not have the power to approve the continuation or termination of the work. We are not, in other words, the supervising authority in the project. However, following the autopsy on 5 October by the PPA, we have asked for data on the timetable for the launching work, as well as documentation of the disposal of cleaning materials, i.e. where they went. The company "TEKAL S.A." informed our service that on October 13, 2021 the removal of a broken jam was completed. At the end of the work, the relevant data for the launching and removal of the cement box were submitted to the PPA, for the supervision of the project and for the independent mechanic. To date, the information we have requested has not been communicated to us. We, of course, mean the Environmental Licensing Directorate, after being informed by the monitoring services, will take the necessary steps and the port authority has already taken the complaints that have come to its knowledge and specifically informed the competent audit authorities and the public prosecutors and submitted to the Prosecutors' Office any material it has in order to be assessed by the public prosecutors. Now for the non-compliance with the environmental conditions in the work on extending the passenger port, by our Ministry, the Directorate-General of the College of Auditors has forwarded to the Department of the Environment of the Regional Unit of Piraeus and the Islands documents, complaints and complaints, in order to investigate them, in particular, the complaints of the Peirian Observatory. That's what we did. We got the complaints from the Piraeus Observatory, we forwarded them to the Environment Department of the Piraeus Regional Unit for non-compliance - that was the title of our document - environmental conditions in this work. The Department of the Environment of the Regional Unit of Piraeus and the Islands carried out its own self-consciousness in the region and has even proceeded with administrative sanctions. In any case, then, we in the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, through the Ministry of Environmental Licensing itself, are monitoring what is happening. As soon as we have the public prosecutors' response to the information we have given them and the complaints we have forwarded to them, we will be appropriately treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too, Minister. In the third under number 232/29-11-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Ikaria and Forens: A hundred and fifty wind turbines are threatening the natural ecosystem" will also be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Amyras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, it is truly shocking to think that 50 wind turbines can be placed on the island of Ikaria, next to the Fourns, which is a backbone, dissolving everything, reaching a height of over a thousand meters on the ridge, in Mount Athera. It is no longer shocking that all of this is placed in protected areas, despite our country's condemnation of the European Court of Justice in December, despite the warning letters and additional complaints against us on these issues and even though we are in the precursor of the European Court of Justice and because we are not making a proper assessment, which would lead us to reject all windfalls in NATURA. It also threatens the ancient forest ecosystem, the Ranti forest, a unique forest ecosystem, which, beyond its significant physical value, has a paleolithic, neolithic historical and cultural value. It also threatens the paths in Ikaria that run across Athera, the famous stone barriers, sources and so on. That is, Minister, a hundred ten wind turbines go all the way across the ridge and on the plateaus of Ikaria, from the Rahes and above, flooding everything in all directions and with the roads, with the nets not going to stay there, quite simply. Think only of the tons of cement that will fall on each base from these wind turbines. We want you to explain how the producer's licence, which was given in line with our compliance with the European Court of Justice's recent conviction that we are enslaving actions and projects into NATURA without having management studies and telling us, with the information you have so far, what will really be left of the Ikaria and Fortress mountain range when this project is implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arsenis, we have often spoken here in this Chamber in response to your questions about renewable energy sources. Well, I've answered you thoroughly, too many times. You constantly denounce the possible installation of renewable energy sources at every corner of the country, and I honestly ask myself, in good faith, if there is, in your analysis, thinking and processing with your party, even one area in Greece where wind turbines could and should be introduced. If you propose to me a single area of this kind and the legal procedure is followed and, at some point, it may be licensed, we will go together and see how the wind turbines operate. Because until then you have been constantly petrifying wind turbines and renewable energy sources. You behave as another negative of clean and green energy or as a newly illuminated negative of the country's liberation. I don't think you're thinking like this, but is it good to get it clear and see practically: Do we want the wind turbines? Do we want clean energy, always with respect to the environment, always with our absolute attention to ecosystems and habitats, how much more sensitive? That is the crucial question I would like to hear you answer. However, we already have the answers to our government. So the Mitsotakis Government feels proud to have prepared Greece and we are working in this area very hard and dynamic, so that in a few years Greece will only meet its energy needs from the sun, air and water. Now, in relation to the issue of Ikaria, I have said it too many times, but too many times. When the Energy Regulatory Authority gives a producer certificate, it does not mean that the project will also be done. After you, Mr. Apostle, who will ask me about Evia, follows a timely question. I will also say to him, of course, since he is close to you and is interested in the matter, that in order to initiate the environmental licensing procedure, which may be positive or may be negative - 90% of the cases are negative - the manufacturer of the RAE needs to be certified. So it doesn't mean, because in Ikaria, any company got a producer's certificate, that the wind turbines will be made there. Because, as you have said, it is like right now that the drills have been opened and the bases are built to get the wind turbines in or the roads open. No way. And I remind you that the Mitsotakis Government there has shown rapid reflexes and increased environmental sensitivity. I would remind you of two projects which did not go any further, because we thought the landscapes where they were to be put on the basis of environmental permits should not be that area. I'm talking to you about the nymph in Florina, which is a brown bear habitat, and I'm talking to you, for example, about the Agraphs, which had become huge talk. So I will continue with my denture, to become much more specific about this project and to give you the information you have asked me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, he really wants more bold - not to say courageous - to tell us as the government's work that the winds were cancelled in the Agraphs and Nymphs. They were people who proposed their breasts and body to protect these mountains there, when you arrested priests, children, young people, to promote and advance the work that you had approved. Do you remember the nymph? Do you remember those trees were cut off? What phase did you cancel? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u39	Not approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u40	There was a project going on in the blockade zone of the bear, which was in the Commission's guidelines for this area. But you say to us: "But, you know, RAE gives a producer's certificate. It does not mean that the work will be done.’ What does your 2020 law say about the conditions to give the producer certificate? Compliance with the spatial planning conditions for renewable energy sources. This spatial planning that the European Commission has decided to illegally and has asked you for so many years since 2014, by letter to change, because it is inconsistent with European directives, which you have told us so many times that you will change it, that your predecessor, Mr. Economou, had, and replied to me in this Chamber, and said that you will change it by the end of 2021 and we expect it, such as so many other things, such as the Prime Minister's statements that they will not become wind turbulently more than a thousand metres, that the AIA's spatial planning will bring limitations to the level to which wind turbines will enter. Even the PDRs are waiting for you to implement, which you have announced again and again, the road-free areas, so in this case, in Ikaria, once again, these authorities are being violated, the few restrictions that have been placed on spatial planning, which is so without any restriction that the European Commission says is in breach of the Habitats Directive. You're going to tell us now: What country are we where you're giving illegal permits, you're breaking your own legislation over and over again? Did the RAE's licence have to respect the limitations of the landfill of the RES or not? Does he respect them or not? What are you doing here? Can you move our finger? As far as the wind position is concerned, I've answered you again and again. You are using climate change - do not surprise yourself, we have discussed it here - to serve interests as a government. It's the decade for the restoration of the natural environment, according to the UN. The most important thing to protect the planet against climate collapse is to protect what we have left of nature. That's what the UN says. That's what scientists say in all countries, except your government and perhaps the previous one. If you want to do something about climate collapse, do what the European Commission says from 2019. Give money from the Recovery Fund for photovoltaics on the rooftops and roofs of people, go and become each self-producer and take the income to the families, away from the natural environment. 33% of the energy consumed we would produce. You don't do it because you want as a government to serve five, three.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I am going through what Mr Arsenis has said, that we are serving interests for wind turbines, etc., because inversely I will also tell him that he and his party serve interests and indeed the dirty interests of lignite, the old, the fossil fuel. So let us be a little careful in here, because neither you - I want to believe - can serve interests nor we, of course, nor anyone else. I repeat to understand that the crisis of the RAE, the Energy Regulatory Authority, on whether or not the project is located in any area under no circumstances binds the environmental authority, which is then responsible for giving a final and binding decision. It's not the RAE that decides where the wind turbines come in. This shall be decided by the national and Union networks, the framework for the placement and assessment of the environmental impact of such projects in each region of the country, the necessary rules and conditions to ensure that there is full respect for the environment and at the same time balanced investment development. So read the article. You're asking me which law says that. Therefore, take into account the Special Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development Framework for RES, Article 5, which states that for the placement of wind installations the national site on the basis of its potential capacity and particular spatial and environmental characteristics is distinguished in the following major categories. First, in the mainland, including Evia. I say this because we will then meet in the debate, Mr Apostleu. Secondly, in Attica, which is a special category of the mainland because of its metropolitan character. Third, in the inhabited islands of Ionian and Aegean Pelagos, including Crete. Fourth, offshore marine space and uninhabited islands. So let's go to Ikaria. It belongs to the third category I just read. Considering the elements of RAE's geo-informatics map, it appears that here we have a producer certificate given for an wind power plant of 330 megawatts of the investment entity called "SOFRANO S.A.". It should be noted that with Law 4685 and Article 11, the non-exceeding capacity of this OTA at a time - here we are talking about Ikaria and the Forens - is a condition for the issue of the producer certificate. If this criterion is met, the RAE gives the producer attestation, but from the moment and time when the RAE gives the producer attestation until we reach the approval of environmental licensing there is a 'cluster' and a scale of controls and different requirements, and so I say again that 90% of RAE's producer certificates do not end up in wind turbines. They're rejected. Here I will say that our directorate, the Department of Environmental Licensing of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, has made no decision on this project. Also, it has not been transmitted to our Ministry's Spatial Planning Department for an opinion on the environmental impact study. So wait. To have confidence in the services of the Greek state, in the powerful National and Union law, which we of course observe and respect unregulated. Referring to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, to which you refer, we have to say that a complaint is pending in the current period for an incorrect application of the provisions of Directive 43/1992, as amended by Directive 105/2006 of the European Communities later on for the conservation of natural habitats, of wild fauna and flora. The opening of this case took place in 2015. The first judgment of the European Court of Justice was delivered on 17 December 2020 and does not include a fine. The complaint today is at the stage of the letter of compliance. Our Ministry has informed the European Commission of all the measures we are taking - and that we are also going to establish more - to comply with the judgment and we are in complete contact with bodies of central and regional administration and local government to coordinate all of us in this direction. In conclusion, because you also write to me in the question how many jobs are expected to be created if this work is done in Ikaria. But is it possible to ask me right now? We still didn't take him out, Yannis. Did we baptize him? No one knows yet whether this investment will thrive. No way. First, I told you we'd pass through the stairs and the cliffs of control under our Union and national law. So when there is an environmental impact study, it will be assessed by us, by our services, and you can be sure that we will make all the information public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Also, the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Amyras, will respond to the seventh under No 225/26-11-2021 topical question of the second cycle of MP Evia from the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Removing the producer's certificate for the installation of a five-story wind park in the municipality of Stavros Municipality of Karystos". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u44	Minister, the problem is the functioning of the RAE. The Energy Regulatory Authority has evolved for Evia to a network of urban permits without complying with the minimum requirements laid down in the legislation in force. Such a case is the approval of the installation of a complex of five wind stations in the area of the Municipal Unit of the Municipality of Karystos. Minister, South-Central Evia and, in particular, Karysia has covered its contribution to the national objective of wind energy. Already four hundred thirteen wind turbines operate in the area and are licensed to set up another hundred sixty-three, so far five hundred seventy-sixteen. The debate we are having today is about the next hundred and twenty-four producer licences that have been issued and another hundred forty-seven which are being evaluated, and others that will be presented, to overcome the thousands of wind turbines which are the objective of RAE. That's where we get the particulars. So these are the intentions of the RAE which, according to its chairman - I have heard you today - to agree on what projects will be installed and on what points it is a matter that depends on the new spatial planning of the RES. But there's no spatial planning. And you know that, Minister, the Secretary-General for Spatial Planning also recently confirmed this in the Committee on the Environment. You don't have a special spatial plan. At the same time, of course, the message of the President of the RAE, which is your message a moment ago, is that only a small part - the president of the RAE called it 10%-20% - of the producer licences issued will be implemented. You know, this is sloppy, Minister, and you are also insulting local communities that are resisting. I mention to you the great mobilisations of the residents, the unanimous decisions of all the self-government entities of Karystia, as well as the unanimous decision of the Regional Council of Central Greece, with which not only does it give a negative opinion on this project, but - look at it, Minister - and expressed the desire to be negative in expressing an opinion on environmental impact studies until essential competences have come to the regional council and not only of an advisory nature. In addition, at the same time, Evia Antiquities Evia reports by letter on the planned development area in this project that it finds visible antiquities now after the fire that burned the area, on the hill of Agios Nikolaos and on the hill of Niboros. That is why he has already submitted a request for the resetting of the archaeological site in the area, aiming at better protection and promotion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Colleague, you have to ask your question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Madam President. It should be noted that the file on the proclamation of the single archaeological site has been promoted in advance of the promotion of the environmental impact study of the project, as well as the environmental impact study of the project bears a date of preparation in July 2021, i.e. that it was prepared in a time prior to the ecological disaster on the island in August. In my denture I will tell you more about the operation of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Colleague, you did not ask your question. You set up, you didn't ask a question. Your question we didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u48	That's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u49	She knows my question, not to repeat myself. I'm sure I'll repeat it in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u50	I think you should have told her, Mr Colleague, to hear the question in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u51	She's already been written and if she answers, I don't have to repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Madam President. For the parliamentary order, the question asked to me by Mr Apostleus, my dear colleague, is this: why does the service not withdraw, the Ministry, the specific permit, the one he spoke about - the producer's licence and not the right to set up you mentioned, Mr Apostle - since, as Mr Apostle says, all the necessary conditions are met for a legitimate placement and, at the same time, it is accompanied by an environmental impact study which is undisturbed after the destructive summer fire in the region. That's the question, and I'm answering it. There's a second one. I imagine, in his denture, the dear Mr. Apostleu will tell us. First of all, let's say something. The RAE did not grant any installation permits. Producer's assurance was that, as I said before, it is the first step, the first step from a long ladder that goes far away with controls, both from national and Union law, and ending in environmental or non-authorisation by the relevant ministries. Of course, and there is an institutional framework. Who said that there is not today the Special Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development Framework for RES? Does he need an improvement? Sure. Does he want renewal? Sure. Are we in this phase now? Of course we are. We're working with the Ministry of the Environment, through his relevant ministers, and we're doing this work, and we'll soon be presenting it. Is there a nr.3468/2006? Of course, there is. Are there any conditions for the carrying capacity of the areas? Of course there are. So don't say whoever wants, where he wants, puts on wind turbines. After all, you yourself said that through the debate in the Committee on the Environment, it was shown that 95% of licences were rejected. So now let me tell you two things that matter and, of course, I will also speak about this project. Every Member State of the European Union must achieve at least 32% of the final consumption of its citizens and their establishments from clean sources of energy, from the sun, from the wave, from the air, from geothermality. So, in Greece, thanks to the directive and the mandate given to us by the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we have put this direction first, and that is why we are running liberation with the thousands and that is why we are also running with great speed the increase in energy production from clean sources, not that by 2030 to 32%, but by reviewing our target in the national energy and climate plan and we have gone to 35%. Greece, "small Greece" is ambitious and is taking the lead in environmental protection and the use of green energy. I would like to know, of course, my dear Mr Apostleu, you - in your party, not you personally - are you in favour of or against liberation? Are you in favour or against the Greek plan for a fair transition to the lignite regions that the European Union finances? So I come to say the specific questions about this work. First of all, to talk about the Styra, what's the procedure? The procedure says that thanks to Law 4685 we simplified the procedure and made it even more transparent for environmental licensing. The manufacturer's certificate previously called "production license" and therefore there was a confusion in people's minds - tells you whether RAE granted production permits, means they go and put the wind turbines on the mountain, no - results in the process of the new Electronic Power Register from RES and High Performance Heat Generation. The placement - I will say again, although I have said to Mr Arsenis - which is the crucial and of interest to all of us, is foreseen through the specific framework of spatial planning. On what criteria, though? Firstly, very few distances from areas of environmental interest, very few distances from areas of cultural heritage. And there are identified exclusion clauses and incompatibility zones. So there are strict conditions. In my dentistry, I'm going to be much more specific about this project in Styra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u55	Minister, first of all, do not talk about promoting renewable energy sources, especially for Evia, when your Prime Minister came down to Karystos and opened certain wind stations when you took over. Secondly, for this project since I asked the question a great deal has been done. First of all, the EGC of Antiquities has intervened in the Central Archaeological Council and we see a process which has too many illegalities. So that's what we want to show you. Because when you already have a regional council that has delivered an opinion, when there is already the precedent of the negative opinion from the Regional Council of Central Greece on the installation in Agrafia - and something similar is happening in the case of Evia, how much more so when - I repeat - 40% of renewable energy production from wind parks produces it from Evia and you know it from it - then we have a pressure. However, when we have the EGC there, which insists that a demarcation should be made. And, of course, the process of going further ahead with the CSCE is something that runs counter to the legislation, that is, Article 12 and Article 13 of the archaeological law of 3028/2002. So when you get to the point where the Ministry of Culture starts asking questions, if we remove one or two wind turbines something we can do, these things are unacceptable. So the questions that have been raised and on the basis of what has been done in the last few days are the following and I repeat them. Why do you allow the examination by the Central Archaeological Council of the environmental impact study of wind parks in Styra before they were declared archaeological site, as stated in the relevant law that I told you before? And, secondly, will you reject the environmental licensing of the project, accepting the negative opinion of the Central Greek Regional Council, as was done a few days ago by studying the environmental impacts for the installation of certain wind parks, just as was the signature for rejection with the Agravia? And finally, don't you see these mobilizations? I honestly confess to you, because I know that you have something to do with Evia, that if you go on a flight trip to Thessaloniki tomorrow, you will see wind turbines that have the form of missile systems. Finally! We can't take it anymore!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. I shall begin directly with the issue of the Central Archaeological Board which has given its opinion. Law 3028/2002 provides and allows the Central Archaeological Board, which is the highest advisory body on the protection, management and promotion of antiquities, to deliver an opinion after transmission of the environmental impact study or not. The time that the Central Archaeological Council, or more broadly the Ministry of Culture through its independent bodies, will be assigned shall be determined by no one but the institution itself. Also, the proclamation of an area as archaeological or not and the time of preaching is purely a matter of the Ministry of Culture, it is not a matter of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. So now, to close one or two questions, withdraw the producer's certificate or not? Fortunately, I'm going to tell you these decisions, we're not getting them out of the cabinet. Fortunately, the state is favoured, everything is judged by the law by the services responsible for licensing controls. In the wind parks and the Styra, of course, especially in what we are talking about now, the ability of local government bodies to bear in mind, i.e. the maximum number of typical wind turbines that may be installed in a space section with the least possible impact on the space, the landscape and the environment, is being taken into account. In this respect, therefore, the project in Strea of the Municipality of Karystos, according to PAE, which is available on the Internet, shows that 43.08% of the authorised capacity is covered. From the geo-information map, it is an wind power plant of 175MW of the investment entity called "SOFRANO S.A.", which has received the production certificate from the PAE, but has of course not received any license yet. Where's the file? The file is located at our Ministry of Environmental Licensing, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, for the construction and operation of a complex of five wind power stations in five areas, including the Municipality of Karystos. So the process is under way. Alas, if anyone who holds the position of Minister or State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment raised the phone to tell the Director of Environmental Licensing, Mr. Diopoulos, who is excellent, a brilliant official of public administration, honest, clean and transparent in his actions, "a, you know something, Mr. Director, cut this project for one or the other." No, we are a favoured, European country and we, as I have said earlier, are ready to make public all the information about any investment that would result in or does not result in authorisation. The rest in the next question I'm sure Mr. Apostle will testify to us and we'll be happy to answer him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the fifth question under number 664/25-10-2021 from the petitions and questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The rough announcement by the Government of the transport of forest services to the RIS does not go any further and create problems for forest employees". The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Amyras. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Secretary, this question has been tabled on 25 October and it has not been answered as required, so we have come with a very big question to make this debate. It is true that this summer was the worst year in terms of the size of forest fires, with very disastrous results for the natural environment, for forest ecosystems, for human property, but unfortunately also for human lives. More than a million acres have been incinerated and with very large fires, i.e. with an increase in the average size of the last decade by 500%, while the government in the budget has committed itself to reducing the percentage of burnt areas. The lack of preparation and the impossibility of the government has unfortunately yielded disastrous results. In order to cover this weakness, Mr Mitsotakis is coming to announce, of course, the transport of forest services from decentralised to the Ministry of Environment and Energy with an act of legislation in August. I note that the verticalisation of forest services was provided for in the forestry strategy drawn up by the SYRIZA government, but it was combined with staff, with resources and a change in the presidential decrees. On the other hand, the government, without a plan, without knowledge, without proper preparation and without recruitment, proceeded with a piece of legislation which, as far as we can see, was not implemented. The provisions of the Act of Legislative content provided that, by 13 September, the decentralised administrations will be accredited and a ministerial decision of the Ministers for the Interior, Economic and Financial Affairs and the Environment on the payroll, the operation of the staff and all the corresponding provisions for the transport of services. Finally, as it turns out, you didn't even have a picture of the situation. A project management team is therefore set up on 24 August. Nor is she able to do so and on 7 October is a contractor with EUR 36 000 obviously assigned to the contractor to design what you announced, without practically having the slightest preparation. So you didn't even have the basics. Thus, the forest officials on 6 October denounce this fact. The Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior freezes the procedure and recognizes it in a document - which we also have in our hands - the many problems that you have created with an announcement without any plan: Impossible to submit requests for retirements, transfers, transfers and licences. And the Association of Public Officials' Forestry also by letter dated 11 October tells you that in practice you have made it a new "Arta Bridge". It proved, then, that you had no preparation and no knowledge of what you were saying of course. You flew a firework, so society can forget that you have unfortunately had a negative lead in Europe and the Mediterranean in fires this year. So when will the vertical organisation and subordination of forest services be completed at the Ministry of the Environment? When will this notorious ministerial decision be issued that should have come out in mid-September? In the end, have you, as the Prime Minister said, received the delivery of the project management team or, as the Prime Minister said, are you a Turloon government?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would call on my dear colleague to tell us whether or not he agrees with the vertical application of forestry services to the Ministry of the Environment. You say you agree, because you anticipated it too - you say - in your strategic planning, but, oh, in the miracle, you still did not have time. All the good things we're doing now and running, oh of miracles, you had it somewhere in your mind, somewhere you planned, but you didn't catch it. We are, however, in a hurry and we are moving forward rapidly, with careful steps, because the transfer and transition of an organisation which has been subject to another organisation since 1998 to come to the vertical subsidence of the Ministry of the Environment, needs to be careful, careful steps. We will take as much time as we need, but running fast as we can to make the transition right. Because the protection of forest wealth is the highest environmental priority of the Mitsotakis Government. Our forests are the invaluable natural wealth of Greece. And we are sure that the managers of forest services, who will be going with us tomorrow, who are worthy, skilled, left to their fate, without resources, without resources, without any encouragement, will come by us to walk together on this path of protecting the natural environment. So let's go see how we're not at all stationary, as you say. First of all, all the decentralised administrations of the country have adopted the legislative acts of August 2021, which define all the members of the agencies of the decentralised administrations transferred to the Ministry of the Environment. Secondly, this accreditation act includes all personnel serving in forestry services covering organic and personal positions with any employment relationship, permanent, private law of indefinite duration. These include non-foresters, i.e. managers holding an organic or personal position in the decentralised administration and serving in the forestry services of each decentralised. Soon - yes, soon - we will also issue the act referred to in paragraph 3 of the third article of the Legislative Act by us, by the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which will rank the transported officials in equal numbers of posts in our Ministry's services. Subsequently, in accordance with paragraph 5 of the MDP of August, we proceed with the adoption of the Joint Ministerial Decision to regulate critical issues, such as administrative details, the issues of the service situation, transfers, all kinds of staff movements, payroll, housing services and matters for the exercise of their responsibilities. It requires careful and thorough study, so that it does not include certain things and leaves some other fields unregulated. Why did the government legislate by an act of law, you ask me one of your ten questions. It is, of course, said in Article 44(1) of the Constitution that in cases of emergency, emergency situation, the government can legislate in this way. We are all aware that last summer's fires were a natural disaster without precedent and, of course, they justified the extremely urgent and unforeseen situations which led us to the act of legislation. For the project team you're asking me about. I will tell you to the project management team - for the transfer, Madam President, I will say in my dentext and answer the other questions - what he has done, how far he has gone ahead with the work and how ready we are to make this great reform. Because this is a big reform. As for the staff you said and the non-recruitment, I would remind you that the last intake that took place in the Forest Service was officially seventeen years ago, in 2004. We are committed and the Ministry of Interior has taken off the list of permanent placements of the year through ASP and three hundred office posts of forest officials. And finally, the bureaucratic procedures are being completed to get eight hundred employees, foresters, forestists and managers with eight-month contracts, with funding from the Social Cohesion Fund, to strengthen forestry services, let alone this transition is now taking place. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u62	Me too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. You see, Mr Amyras made the mistake of closing his first answer with what is the great mistake of the Mitsotakis Government. The New Democracy Government as soon as it took over the government - because you asked what we were doing - froze five hundred recruits scheduled by the SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u64	No funding!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u65	So you froze them, and the two of them were permanent posts of civil servants within the budget, and the other three hundred had resources from the Public Investment Programme and were three years old and not eight months that you are now doing. So you've frozen the recruitments and dare to ask what we're doing for forestry services. But you did not even implement the forestry strategy. You have now remembered it in the legislative act. So, two years, and you remembered it now, after a great disaster. And you ask what we did. We made it the forest strategy with the forest officials, those who are now protesting because you cannot implement Mr Mitsotakis' announcement of fireworks. You're talking about careful steps. I wonder: When you drafted the act of legislation, did you not know that careful steps were needed? Then why did you say in a month that a ministerial decision would come and now you're going for four and we're watching? In fact, the protection of forest wealth has not been achieved. Unfortunately, you did a negative first for Greece. At least the administrative announcements can be implemented? Because we know that there is no agreement from the relevant ministries. And tell you how. Madam President, we have a document from the General Accounting Office of the State, signed by Mr Skylakakis, who says that he has consulted the RIS that the budget be kept in the decentralised, because they will not proceed to the ministerial decision as quickly as it seems and that the resources must be left to pay workers to decentralised administrations, that is to say, the Ministry of the Interior. So I wonder: When the Prime Minister announced it, he knew all these problems and the carefully taken steps? Did you make fun of him or did the Prime Minister make fun of Greek citizens and forest employees? You have to answer that. We read that the budget is smaller for some forestry services too. That is, Madam President, in Attica with this tragic print, the budget for the forest services of 2022 has less resources than it had last year. Good for you! You did it! In the circular you published in November, you admit that not only have the Ministerial Decision been adopted, but you admit that you are creating problems because of this negligence and administrative failure - and the Secretary-General writes it - on issues such as spouses' co-service, travel of officials, a solution to a staff relationship due to retirement, appointment of a relative, examination of forest officials for the service councils. So the Mitsotakis government has created problems and obviously the firework has not implemented it. Mr. Amyras, don't be in a hurry, don't read a text you've been given. I already said in my first speech that the transport of forest services to the Ministry of the Environment was in the forestry strategy. And they're finally served by decentralised administrations. And I wonder, have you told Mr. Screka? Because Mr Screkas came here on 11 November in a meeting with the Environment Commissioner, Mr Sinkevicius, and said: 'We proceeded with a huge administrative reform and it seems that the coordination of the Forest Service is much faster and more efficient'. But didn't you tell him it hasn't happened yet? Mr. Skakakis says not to transfer the resources. The Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior says that there are administrative problems and they remain and Mr. Skrekas comes to Parliament and says you did it? So, what did you do? Nor forest fire prevention, a negative result on the forest ecosystem, have you stuck your own announcement and told us that the Forest Service has become faster? But the rest of the ministers say he stayed behind! You have to tell us a little bit when you're telling the truth. Unfortunately, there are no other issues solved. Because I'll ask you the last one. The Director-General of the Directorate-General for Forestry at a meeting in the Committee on the Environment - together with Mrs Kafantari - said on 25 October that you were working with the Ministry of Project to draw up additional legislation. So neither the credentials nor the ministerial decision nor the task force are enough, and are you preparing legislative regulations? So I very much ask you: What are these arrangements? Tell us how your Government will not cause any more problems for employees, because you are already creating too many problems in the ecosystem of Greece, very great risks for the forests of Greece. Because the main problem, Mr Amyras, is to strengthen the Forest Service with staff and with resources, as planned by us and absent from the 2022 budget. Because the Mitsotakis Government and the strategy have frozen both recruitment and funding, and unfortunately implements an anti-African policy. At least the announcement can after five months be implemented by that one month? Do you even have that adequacy? It's a question about the history of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u66	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your adequacy is summarized in a saying of the Greek people: "Manolis, with words, builds above and below." Tell me what code you had set up and committed money for the alleged recruitment of forest workers on your day? Tell me the code, and I'll be apologising here. We're full of ideas. We are interested in substance, action and moving forward. That's what the Mitsotakis government does, in absolute contrast to the Tsipra government. So let's see the evidence one by one. What does the Treasury and the State General Accounting Office say? It says quite the opposite of what you mentioned a moment ago. It shall state the costs of the spatial jurisdiction forestry services of the decentralised administrations after their transfer to the RIS of pre-empting and pre-empting the validity of the last subparagraph of paragraph 5 of the third Article of the Act of Legislative Enforcement, i.e. all administrative acts of those services, shall be adopted in accordance with the applicable provisions and the remuneration of the personnel of the forestry services shall be covered by decentralised services. What does that mean? It means that the administrative acts adopted since 13 August will normally remain valid. So you are wrongly accusing us of creating serious problems for forest workers. That is why, with this interpretation and in this legislative direction, in full cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the General Accounting Office of the State, we are resolving any disharmony that has been brought to the attention of the spouses, with movements of officials within and outside the prefecture, with the solution of a retirement relationship, with the appointment of a relative on account of death, with the examination of issues of forest officials from the service councils, with the exercise of hereditary duties. You referred to the project management team. On 24 August 2021 we adopted a decision of the Minister for the Environment setting up the project management team. What's he doing and what's this project management team? It is composed of remarkable executives, of experienced service actors. It was formed at high levels with the head of the Ministry's Secretary, Mr. Michalopoulou, who is a - I would say - man of excellent knowledge and competence in relation to public administration. And he immediately collected all the data from the decentralised organisational structure, staff, costs, payroll, buildings, vehicles, IT infrastructure, processed all the data and sent for approval and further, if necessary, draft legislation on which to deal with individual issues. Now, what you're saying about entrusting a company outside the Ministry to support the project management team only impressions and even blurred impressions attempts to cause nothing more. This practice of public services to be assisted by specialised private sector companies is common in any case. Therefore, do not throw blurred waters, because the sole responsibility lies solely with the full control of the work in the public service. To stay a little back in the Ministry's financial services. Our financial services from the first moment have systematically, methodically and in detail approached the task of integrating the expanded structure of the decentralised administration into the Ministry, and that is why we have uninterrupted communication - and do not try to break the gaps - with the Ministry of Finance, with Mr. Skylakakis, with the Ministry of Interior, to have adequate credits for any issue of economic nature. We have already gathered from the decentralised administrations all the necessary elements and have prepared a unified payroll system, while we have also made provision for the management of the files paid at a decentralised level to ensure that the staff to be retired can be sent on time to the competent offices in the ECA. So all that I have told you and more, which I do not have the time to tell you now, shows that we care about reforms. Yes, reforms require time, they require careful steps. Work needs to be done properly and with design in its last detail. By studying, we are taking steps forward with targeted action. We're not stationary. We're moving forward. We are not ignoring any problems in the process, but we are immediately finding a solution, which is exactly the opposite to what the SYRIZA Government has done, which has found a problem for every solution. We do exactly the opposite. We find a solution to every problem. And whether they like or not forest services will come with vertical control over the Ministry of the Environment, to make a forest policy the way we want it, as we have organised it in collaboration with the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection. We go hand in hand, we do a wide range of cooperation at all levels, so that we can protect our forest ecosystems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the fourth with number 222/26-11-2021 topical question of the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "New Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection". The Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection will answer Mr Stylianides. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u69	Minister, good evening. I am pleased that, after about forty days from the first statement of the topical and urgent question, we are here, in Parliament, to discuss the major issue of civil protection, which, especially today in the climate crisis, is very serious both with regard to prevention policies, but also with regard to the resilience of systems. Minister, we are getting out of an anti-nuclear period particularly injured with 1.4 million acres of land burned in the anti-nuclear period, and all of this has shown, if you wish, the inadequacy, the void communication, I would say, the Mitsotakis Government and your predecessor State Secretary for Civil Protection regarding civil protection and crisis management. Unfortunately, however, this spirit of your predecessor in dealing with forest fires with the consequences that I have actually mentioned is still continuing today and continues now. Of course, the consequences of this policy have also had the floods, and all that we are experiencing. However, the logic of the evacuations was followed very much in the anti-nuclear period and in the forest fires. He had specific results. But we see that this logic continues and appeared both in the fire of Tinos and in the floods in Elias, etc. Even the handling of "Balos" in Attica with that logic just brought results and shows that something is not working properly. Is there an account of the anti-missile period, Minister? The Mitsotakis government two years ago, including last year's anti-nuclear and this year, did not present a publicly account of the anti-nuclear period. Also, 1.4 acres that were burnt are not just as is the consequences of the "Janu", "Medea", "Balos" etc. Of course, there are no victims. I would like to say, of course, that human life is always above all, but this logic that you have followed has resulted in the loss of biodiversity and even the forest area has been burned with two boars. We also noticed a deterioration of the Fire Corps. It's all done by Civil Protection, by the Ministry. In fact, in the past, we have history of the action of the Fire Corps for so many decades, in difficult conditions, without means, to achieve great results. Also, your predecessor used a term in the middle of a fire, the term 'basic anti-missile period' - this is not scientifically documented, of course - and he had announced us in a timely question I had tabled here and for media orders, for helicopters, for tractors, etc. The results, however, showed other things. The last reform created the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection with Presidential Decree 70. Responsibility of the Fire Corps is transferred from the Ministry of Civil Protection. The services of the Ministry of Environment and Energy are also being transferred to the new Ministry, breaking down the single policy that the climate needs and of course some competences from the Ministry of Transport. Workers of the Ministry of Environment and Energy will facilitate, work in both Ministries, as reported, by the end of 2022. You had passed a law - not you, the Mitsotakis Government - on civil protection that would solve all the problems, Mr.4662/2020. But it was inertial. The anti-nuclear period followed by laws of "XENOURATORY" and, on the other hand, selectively used some articles, Article 25 and Article 26, concerning the emergency and special mobilisation of civil protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u70	Your Honor, you have to close down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u71	I shall conclude, Madam President. Thank you very much. Basically, with the situation of special mobilisation, in some areas - eighteen, which then became twenty-three contractors, did works, etc. I ask you: have the works been received from the relevant departments of your Ministry, which were the projects carried out? Is there, on the basis of Article 42, the Risk Assessment Committee provided by law? My questions are three. First of all, if you change the legislative framework and what legislative changes you will make to the law to deal with the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u72	Your Honor, you know the question is two minutes. Why are you having trouble with me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u73	I shall end, Madam President, and thank you very much. What is the Ministry's establishment plan, really? How many do they serve, distracted and not? Of course, if there are seconded for a long time by other public services, if they are charged with the Ministry's budget and if the legislation is respected in this regard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Can I get the mask off the desktops?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u76	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, during my second presence in the Greek Parliament today, I will avoid a reason for dispute - I was a parliamentarian in two parliaments, in the European and in the Cypriots - because, as I said in my first appearance, I do not think it serves the public interest and the purposes of a national dialogue. I firmly believe that this major issue, the major challenge, the global challenge of the climate crisis, which is directly and specifically related to civil protection issues, should be addressed by all of us with a more consensual climate, and I as Minister I must insist on this climate, because it is the only one that will create the basis for a real national dialogue leading to a national strategy. Allow me, however, to insist on some basic elements of attitude and perception that I have put forward in my previous presence in the House and which refer to how we approach this crucial issue of the climate crisis in conjunction with civil protection, risk management. As I said last time, these are the elements that have led to the creation of the new ministry. I believe that the Prime Minister, fully aware of these increased demands imposed by the climate crisis, has been in line with the new major challenges and has made this innovative and bold decision. A little parentheses. Last week I was in Portugal where the international forum was held on the issues of Disaster Risk Management with the entire international community there and the United Nations and I confess to you that at the heart of the debate it was this bold decision that Greece made to create this ministry. I return by saying why this decision is internationally recognised as a sound and innovative decision: because it is perhaps the only way and the only way to deal effectively with the climate crisis and its consequences, now, is to save lives and property, infrastructural countries and at the same time the environment. In my opinion, it is very important to understand from all of us that this concept is beyond traditional ideological differences and we must, with this common conviction, act together so that we can become as beneficial as possible to citizens. And that is precisely why, in order to lead to this necessary consensus and consensus, we launched this national dialogue aimed at a common national strategy. We've already had a meeting with Mrs. Kafantari. It was a very constructive meeting. Thank you very much, because with its own contribution and the contribution of all the parties we will indeed be able to achieve the best possible result, which of course you realise that in climate crisis conditions where everything changes every day we will have to adapt it based on the logic of adaptation and on the logic of limiting the effects of climate change. What, though, is the innovation that this new Ministry brings? It is precisely that for the first time in Greece, but also in other countries - which is why it is being discussed - it is trying to bring together two critical pillars, which, while they seem to be moving at the same time, are entirely linked, and it is the linking of civil protection with the climate crisis. Allow me here, without any complacentness, because I have also experienced it at European and global level, to mention many of my own experiences that it is so necessary to think about crisis management in which prevention, preparation, preparedness and resilience must be associated with repression, which, if not in a creative way, will unfortunately speak only theoretically and will not have practical effect. Specifically, if you see the European Union's own policy, what powers the current crisis commissioner has - the President, as a Member, has seen many such political initiatives within the European Parliament - you will see that there has always been this anxiety about how we will become more effective in the logic of repression through civil protection. And the crucial issue is not how to act at the critical moment, but how to act before the critical moment, how to prepare and how to prevent, to limit evil, not have all these consequences that result in victims and infrastructure dismantling. This attempts to implement the new Ministry based on these three main words, but they are very important. As I said before: Prevention, preparation, preparedness, response and durability. You say, why is this Ministry created, since there is the Ministry of the Environment and Energy? There is no doubt that, as in all governments in all political systems, the Ministries operate on the basis of mutual complementarity. The Ministry of Energy and the Environment in Greece, as well as in all European countries and other developed countries, has the responsibility of helping us reach climate neutrality by addressing the problems of CO2 emissions, it has the responsibility of managing all the elements relating to the environment in the well-known traditional way. But at the same time, when we have something similar to the "Blue" you mentioned before, who will manage it at that time? What scientific staff will follow the rapid phenomenon? What scientific staff will it know where the level of rivers and streams lies, where the overall system of the country can respond, even if there are so many diseases present in the national system? It needs something else that can scientifically respond to this critical need and make the right decisions. I explained to you at the meeting, I will say it now: we have worked with crisis management models in the case of "Blue" and we have reached this position that fortunately did not confirm the meteorological data, because the management model was, unfortunately, driving in the worst case scenario to very painful consequences. This cannot be done within the Ministry of Energy and the Environment as it is structured in Greece and other countries and it needs the establishment of this new Ministry. I'm stopping here and I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u78	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u79	Minister, I imagine in your dilemma that you answer the questions I asked you about legislative initiatives, about the Ministry, about the issues of the establishment plan which a new ministry must have for its staff. But first of all, I will tell you that it is right for the national dialogue to be held in the major climate crisis and civil protection, but there is also a basis. We're not starting at zero, Minister. Adapting to climate change. It is one of the first countries in Europe after the Paris Agreement and since 2016 it has had plans to adapt to climate change and regional plans. So there is a basis that we can continue the dialogue and, anyway, we can take action. That's the point. Secondly, you referred, I think, to Lisbon and Brussels where you went and made some statements. First of all for the AEGEAN programme, which is what the Prime Minister has also tabled here in plenary, and which concerns civil protection equipment 2020 - 2028, orders of new engineering instruments, issues of air means, technology equipment and all of this. All of this is good, but also the human factor and, anyway, the substantial upgrading of the Fire Corps, which we consider to be downgraded after the last fires, is a serious issue. I'll be more specific here. At the moment you mentioned your statements that we will bring firefighters from Northern Europe to Greece when we have fires and similar Greek firefighters will go. Am I right? And that, of course, will not happen through the European mechanism, because you know well that the European mechanism is primarily about air instruments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u80	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u81	Okay, but is this going to be done through the European mechanism? But is that not so far the case, or am I wrong, and is it something new?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u82	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u83	But whatever it is, Minister, why do you not train any more in the new technologies? Why don't you give a solution to a series of employees in the Fire Corps so that they can also have employment on a 12-month basis? And now to the other thing you referred to about "Blue" and you say that you want to make new structures, there are statements of your own on meteorological services in Civil Protection, etc., why do you underestimate the public sector so much, the country's research institutions, the universities? There is an important basis on which we can move forward. At the moment I will mention EMI, which has a series of meteorological and geophysical stations which can be exploited. I will refer to the Athens National Observatory which has specific programmes which have not been used in the anti-nuclear period, for example the "AEGEAN" programme, which also provides specific data on the spread of a fire, etc. Why are you underestimating - let me speak - the public sector and going to create new structures? After all, there is also an article in Law 4662 which talks about the creation of a scientific body or committee to say it better, in which they will be involved by educational institutions, experts, etc. Are you going to do that? So, is the point of creating new structures or making use of and upgrading already public structures, institutions, science as I have said, universities, scientific bodies, and using knowledge of the major we want? I'm afraid that somewhere else... If I have understood correctly, the creation of new structures, as you mentioned, in your statements, etc., are likely to create a new situation, new institutions, possibly new recruitments, 'excellent' positions and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u85	You will allow me, my colleague, because I understand that there are some misunderstandings, to tell you that under no circumstances do I deny that there is an exceptional human potential in this country and that it has produced very important scientific knowledge. That's why I talk to the Meteorological Service every day. Ask Mr. Kolydas to tell you how many times a day we speak and how many times a day we try to improve matters through EMI. At the same time, I've met. I started from the University of Athens, the Polytechnic and the Observatory with Mr. Ploonis and I'm just trying to create and use this knowledge as much as anything else. Inside "AEGEAN" there is a special fund just to exploit the scientific community and all the programs will go through our universities. I have repeatedly said that the human potential in this country is amazing. What I'm saying is there's a problem in the system. That is where I will focus so that I can just create this coordination of all these people who are excellent. That means that we are not different in this regard. There's been some misunderstanding. We're forgetting about it. As far as the Fire Corps is concerned, and here we are talking about heroic people. I'm in contact with them. This issue with the seasonals you mention has nothing to do with the so-called 'Pilot Project' to be done by the European Union. I have met three times with the new Commissioner, Mr Lenartsic, and the European Commission has decided to fund the programme that will be coming in the summer because we have not yet served this forestry staff. The peasants, than they explained to me, who know better than I do, cannot be a peasant before they become firefighters, which means I won't have them in the summer. In the summer I have to make use of some from abroad, and the money will give all of it to the European mechanism, because it is the so-called 'Pilot Project'. That is why the mechanism will be financed to see, as it always does in my own period, good and bad and will be able to assess whether it will continue in the next phase. This means that this programme is firstly financed in full and has nothing to do with the recruitment of seasonal fire extinguishers or not. It's a whole different thing. We want in the summer, especially July and August, when we will need to, if we manage to get to a hundred, a hundred and twenty forest firefighters through the existing firefighting personnel, to have these three hundred and fifty of the European forces, so that we can complete and be more effective. Until we build our own forestry body, you realise that it will not need or be on another basis on the basis of European solidarity. But I would like to say what you have asked me about the staff. The staff of the Ministry, the officials, but also those who serve with an indefinite amount of time are unfortunately only fifty. Accordingly, the permanent and the secondment of other entities is twenty-three. Officials serving with a fixed-term relationship are a total of three hundred nine and are currently mainly on tracking because of COVID. Like the twenty-three people I have said before, they are mainly concerned with issues relating to COVID. We have had this evil, and we should also manage it through the Civil Protection. I would stress that the officials of these categories serve, as I have said, the extraordinary needs arising from the pandemic and it is undoubtedly important that this contribution be made, as is the contribution of the Ministry to this great challenge that we all have before us. As far as the Fire Corps is concerned, its total organic force is of thirteen thousand two hundred and fifty-seven executives. Of these, the eleven thousand three hundred eighty-two serve as an official fire personnel and a thousand five hundred nine as organic firefighters with an organic position and nine hundred four as firefighters five years with a personal position. From 1 May to 1 October 2021, two thousand four hundred seven hundred seasonal firefighters had been recruited with a fixed-term employment relationship and with the possibility of re-entry up to five consecutive anti-nuclear periods. It is important that we return to the high level and mindfulness of the firefighting personnel. I believe and have found in the Fire Corps people I did not expect, people of exceptional potential and we will insist precisely on upgrading them more and above all giving them prestige and recognition. It takes the whole society. All of us must give it to them, precisely because they are firing fires and not the politicians, not the mayors, not the regional leaders. These are the heroes. We're just there to help them at the hard time. I believe that the European project we say has nothing to do with what will happen to seasonal or five-year-olds. These are issues that we are discussing. My Undersecretary, who has responsibility for the Fire Corps, will make his first proposal in the next few days on this whole restructuring issue, and next time we will come to the House to inform you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, as the following Minutes of Thursday's sitting on Thursday 21-10-2021 of Friday 22-10-2021 are hereby ratified, the following Minutes of Monday 25-10-2021, the IH sitting on Monday 1-11-2021, the IF sitting on Tuesday 2-11-2021, the IF sitting on Wednesday 3-11-2021 and the IH sitting on Thursday 4-11-2021 are hereby confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u87	The minutes of Thursday 21-10-2021, of Friday 22-10-2021, of Monday 25-10-2021, of Monday 25-10-2021, of Monday 1-11-2021, of Tuesday I-2021, of Tuesday I-11-2021, of Wednesday I-11-2021, of Wednesday 3-2021 and of Thursday I-11-2021 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-06-S1-commons.u88	With the consent of the House at 19.23 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 8 December 2021, at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
