ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 2a-2b-2c]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request by the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. We are now entering the agenda for the sitting. LEGISLATIVE WORK Vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Protection of volunteering, strengthening of the civil society's action, tax incentives to strengthen the utilization of the O.K.P. and other provisions.’; A request has been made for a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment of 1170 and a special number 113 by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u2	I will not read the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote because of the specific conditions for the coronary. We believe that there is the figure required by the Rules of Procedure for it. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten minutes (10 minutes), in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment with a general number of 1170 and a special number of 113. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u4	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u5	Once you have finished, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of the roll-call vote on Amendment 1170/113. A total of 296 Members voted. In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 168 Members. On the amendment, i.e. 'Notice', 128 Members voted. 'The present' was adopted by no one. The Ministerial Amendment No 1170, and a special 113, therefore, has been accepted by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the President-in-Office of the Council. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u9	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u11	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u12	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u13	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u14	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u15	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u16	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u17	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u18	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u19	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u20	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u21	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Interior: "Protection of volunteering, strengthening the activities of the Civil Society, tax incentives to strengthen the benefit of the community. and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u22	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u23	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting for a few minutes, so that the debate on the budget for the financial year 2022 can then begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are now entering the debate on the budget, on the agenda of the legislative work. Only debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Statement of the State Budget for the financial year 2022". The debate on the budget of the State will be held in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure within five consecutive sessions. The speakers will be registered with the electronic system by the end of the speech of the sixth Secretary-General and a single list of speakers will be drawn up. The sequence of speakers will be defined in the context of the speakers' circles. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents on 9 December 2021, I propose that following the speeches by the general and special rapporteurs, which will be completed today, there should be a first circle of speakers with a number of speakers, one Member from each parliamentary group, six alternate Members. Then, in order to ensure that Parliamentary seats are represented by analogy, I propose that a single list of speakers should be drawn up, including all Members registered with the electronic system. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the The circles of speakers will be as follows: Each cycle will consist of twelve MPs, six of the New Democracy, three of the SYRIZA, one of the Change Movement, one of the Communist Party, the twelfth speaker will come from either the Greek Solution or the Mera25 alternating party, in order to ensure the presence of the two smaller groups in more circles. Also, if the two Independent Members are registered, they will be incorporated in some of these circles. It should be noted that this proportion will be maintained until the number of Members registered in each Party has been exhausted, which means that in the last few de facto cycles the rotation will be limited to the larger groups. Changes in the order of speaking should be made in exceptional cases with the approval of the Bureau and only with a document from the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group addressed to the Bureau and with the necessary condition of mutual change, until the end of the second sitting, i.e. until Wednesday at 15 December. We will make every effort this year, as is the case in recent years, so that all Members of this House can speak. This will be possible if we are all confined to the time we are entitled to, and if our meetings start at the time set by the agenda. All the next meetings, as decided at the Conference on 9 December 2021, will start at 9 a.m. and will last until night without interruption. The last Saturday sitting will start at 10:00 a.m. The time of the general rapporteurs will be twenty minutes, of the special rapporteurs 12 minutes, of the Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and Prime Minister 30 minutes, of the Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and of the Chief of Staff, thirty-minutes, of the Chairmans of the Parliamentary Groups of the Change Movement, of the Communist Party of Greece, of the Greek Solution and of Mera25 twenty-five minutes, of the responsible Minister of Finance twenty-five minutes, of the responsible Deputy Minister of Finance, 15 minutes, of the responsible Deputy Minister of Finance, ten minutes, of the Ministers of the other Ministries, eight minutes, of the Deputy Ministers of the other Ministries, seven minutes. Parliamentary representatives shall be entitled to speak for twelve, six and three minutes, subject to Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Finally, speaking time for priority speakers and speakers on the list will be seven minutes. The Saturday sitting, as I said before, will start at 10 a.m. and will be made available exclusively for a circle of parliamentary representatives at the beginning of the sitting and then for the speeches of the political leaders, in the reverse order of power of the parties. The vote of the state budget will be taken by electronics card. The vote on the budget for public investment, on the annexed budgets and on the budget for decentralised administrations will be taken by raising or restoring, in accordance with Rule 123(7) of the Rules of Procedure. We calculate the vote to start around 6 p.m. on Saturday afternoon. Finally, I propose that today's sitting should end, as I said before, with the speeches of the general rapporteurs and the special rapporteurs. We've estimated it for six hours, so between 12:30 and 01:00 a.m. after midnight. Is there any objection to this basic suggestion, first of all? [[Noise in the Chamber]] No, just a minute, to object to the basic suggestion. Other if you want to talk about something. There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u25	I would like the floor, Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u26	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. One issue is this. As I understand it, after the meeting of the Presidents there was a debate that the parliamentary representatives could speak on Saturday and not on the rapporteurs. All I would add to that, if you can, Mr President, is the distribution of the ministers in a serious way. In other words, we must not end up with a series of ministers which cannot be altered. If we can have a valid update when the Minister of Development, the Minister of Health, will speak and say so. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u28	On both issues that you raised and on information, you are right and have been relatively satisfactory last year and on the fact that not all the ministers are involved together. First of all, they were excluded, as you understood, on the last day. I will see to it that the President of this House is informed, and we are already being heard by the President of this House. I think it is two requests that can be launched and as smooth as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u30	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I obviously think that every effort should be made to talk to all Members and ministers by Friday evening. However, if this is not possible, I think that Saturday's working hours should include the concept of flexibility in our decision, because 18.00 p.m. is quite early. If, in other words, there are Members who have to prolong the procedure, some will be able to speak on Saturday and the political leaders will be able to start later, that is to say perhaps 19.00', 20.00' or 21.00'' in the budget vote. I do not think that we should enter 18.00 as a limit to close the possibility for some colleagues to speak. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... I am sure that the Bureau will do everything in its power to ensure that this does not happen, but that it is not taken as a given fact that until Friday night only the Members are speaking. I add this to the essence of the matter for an elastic interpretation of Saturday's working hours, if it is to happen. The House will probably see it on Friday or Thursday, but I would like it to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, as you and I will remember, it was a request that you made there as well. The majority rejected. However, he's the President here, he heard you. I believe that, as in the last year and also in your days, all Members will speak. If a more acute issue arises and 50 people have more, perhaps with an extraordinary Conference of Presidents to see it, but this evening we begin with the recommendation, based on the decision of the Conference of Presidents. I will give the floor to the rapporteur-General of the New Democracy, Mr Russoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u33	Mr. President, there was a matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Chakalato, what do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Russopoulou, give me a minute. I asked the previous President to speak for a minute on a serious social issue that I think will not split. But it's very important, and I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u36	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, the serious social issue that has arisen these days is about what is called'revenge pornography', the revenge of pornography. It's badly called that because it's not pornography. It's a feminine abuse, because anything without consent...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u38	What does that have to do with the budget?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u39	It's abuse. I think that all sides of this House can agree that we must be close to any victim of such abuse, that they have nothing to be ashamed of, that they have done nothing that is stubborn, and we must be on their side. The only ones to be ashamed of are the ones doing these postings, the ones who still think...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u40	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u41	Let me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u42	Yes, but please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u43	Only those who still think women's sexuality is a mess. All sides can agree on this, like all sides - and I am finishing it, it is my last phrase - can agree that in a country which is becoming a gypsy every month, which has again become a new gypsy, these issues must be taken very seriously and all together must be on the side of the victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u44	Mr Tsakalotos, there is no doubt that this is a matter where there will be a unanimous condemnation from Parliament, such as for such things. But you will allow me in the budget tonight not to raise this issue. We have the time after the budget, where perhaps this can be discussed and 100% will be 'three-zero'. Please open the registration system. Here, Mr. Russopoulou, you have the floor and I'm sorry for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I represent the majority on the budget at this step now, but I cannot fail to note that the social changes that have taken place in recent years, and in particular on the advent of social media, may lead our Parliament to some debates either in plenary or in relevant committees. I could not start another way, ladies and gentlemen, from the innovatory introduced by this year's budget, which many governments have tried in the past and is doing for the first time in our country's chronicles. For the first time, the performance budget is presented. In particular and in detail, those sums which go to every area of our policy, to every ministry, the classification of expenditure, so that one can know very well where what is going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who does not want to hear the party rapporteurs, please leave the Chamber, otherwise, as long as he lives in the Chamber, he will not speak to his side. Mr. Russopoulou, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, a few days ago I discovered a nice phrase from John Kennedy, which actually mentions the philosophy of budgets. Kennedy said: "The government is the people and the budget reflects their needs." This phrase contains the two main factors which the governor must bear in mind when drawing up the economic map of the State. The numerator enters the economic sizes and the denominator social needs. The denominator's specificity, ladies and gentlemen, as you remember from school, is that he can never be zero. So it is the social needs that define our policy. Today we are not in an election or analyzing general programme statements, to refer to arrogant lines to what we are thinking about. We have already travelled a significant route to our first government service, so it speaks the footprint of our political writing. The work of the last two and a half years speaks better than words and confirms the truth of what we promised. Ladies and gentlemen, our people have had difficult conditions and in some cases tragic. The contributors to the major economic crisis have been crushed for a decade by households and businesses. In the years that have been dramatically reduced GDP, taxes have increased too much - particularly in our prior government - social benefits have been reduced and the future of the country has been undermined, since a significant proportion of citizens have chosen to travel abroad and the place has been deprived of ideas, dynamism and important productive forces. The philosophy of the New Democracy - and this is reflected in the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis - was and is firmly geared to reducing tax burdens, creating conditions of extroversion of the Greek economy and thus attracting investment. Investment in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, the years of the crisis ranged from about half the European average and thus a significant investment gap of EUR 160 billion was inherited, with adverse consequences for the Greek economy, for businesses and households. The inability of this Greek economy to develop is undoubtedly translated into limited revenues for businesses, thus lower wages for workers and higher unemployment. Our policy mix balances between economic efficiency and social justice. Tax reliefs, storming reforms, which lead to a truly effective public administration mechanism, the high-speed transition to digital Greece, the improvement of the business environment, are the main axes of our policy. This is why a budget should reflect the wishes of a society, adapted to democratic achievements of social rights and seek the happiness of the citizens of this society. One budget more than any other law of the state is judged to be swiftly, because its results confirm or falsify a policy in a short period of time. In the results of the two previous budgets of the Mitsotakis Government, which we have tabled and implemented, it turns out that what we want can be done. Already in 2019, we have moved on to a series of reforms and tax concessions, which have led to the immediate improvement of the economic climate and the recovery of market confidence. The cost of borrowing for our country has been significantly reduced, and this is not solely due to the European Central Bank's intervention, as it says. Before the pandemic broke out in October 2019, we proceeded to a 10-year bond issue at a rate of 1.5%, while just a few months before the same year, in March, our country, the previous government borrowed from the markets for the same bond issue at a rate of 3.9%. Today we are lending at zeros or even at negative interest rates. This is yet another proof of the rapid gain in credibility of the ever-increasing deported national economy. The developmental orbit in which after the 2019 elections our country entered, and even dynamically our economy entered, has unfortunately ceased violently with the outbreak of the pandemic at the beginning of 2020. A global economic crisis, which has affected all economies, inevitably leading to a global recession. We couldn't, of course, have our own economy stayed unaffected. In order to support it, we have implemented and continue to implement, and in 2022 a large number of interventions totalling more than EUR 43 billion. At the same time, the cumulative growth of the Greek economy will rise to 11,7 % and so next year, not only will we recover the losses that have arisen because of the pandemic, but we will exceed the domestic product of 2019 by almost 2 points, 1,7 in fact. Comparison with economies of other countries demonstrates the great value of this success. Most of the world's countries, ladies and gentlemen, according to a recent report by the IMF, will take another two years, by 2024, in order to increase their GDP by 0.9%. We increase it to twice the number of years earlier, half a year, that is. The negative effects of the long economic crisis that we have experienced include the country's performance on unemployment. Moreover, the pandemic has added major problems to the already heavy work climate, but the country in recent years has shown signs of encouraging recovery. Unemployment in September 2020 was 16.5% and a year later decreased by 3.5 points and is 13%. At the same time, employment has increased and they have found another hundred and forty thousand of our fellow citizens. We're not celebrating. Our social view says that every unemployed person is 100% unemployed and that sizes associated with the value of life and the dignity of the citizen must make responsible for every government's constant effort. Another problem, which has taken place recently on the global economic map, is inflation. Since last June there has been a growing trend. In fact, the United States has reached a record of forty years since such inflation had to see from 1982. They are also followed by countries of Europe. The rise in inflation is linked to the international energy crisis, but also to the greatest demand, which came as a result of the relaunching of economies after the gradual lifting of restrictive measures worldwide. Moreover, the delays in the production and movement of products, the storage of products by companies responsible as a result of panic from the unprecedented pandemic treaty are the complementary factors that interpret the problem and I mention them in more detail, because such factors do not last long and are normalised quickly. In our assessment, then, we will gradually lead to a decline in inflation in the second quarter of 2022. Therefore, for the whole of next year, inflation is estimated at 0.8%. And in our country, as expected, inflation is recorded, but below the European average, according to EUROSTAT figures. Will you tell me, is it enough for you that we have a better performance than the others? Oh, no. But, in an invasion of accuracy worldwide, two factors are important: the first is comparison with others, and the second is the way and the policies with which each government is dealing with the problem. We are among the first two countries of the European Union to take measures to support society from the effects of the international crisis on energy. In the last three months alone, the household and business aid package has amounted to EUR 1.1 billion only for energy. As regards comparison with others now, I expect the Civic Opposition to speak about the MWh price today. He did it in committee too, and I hear executives say it in their public speech. It is true that the fluctuations in the map are large and do not lead to a safe and lasting conclusion. Today, for example, when Greece records the lowest price at EUR 197 per MWh while France today records EUR 329 per MWh a little while ago the market closed, we will be at EUR 222 tomorrow and France at EUR 346. They are the only tables I will table in the Minutes to prove what I have told you before. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Rousopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed with the revenue and expenditure which are the two main priorities of each budget. Based on the forecasts of the medium term, the revenues of 2021 will be about 0.5 billion euros over, while expenditure will be 777 million more and these are sums spent on dealing with the consequences of the pandemic. In 2022 the net revenue of the state budget on a budgetary basis, after tax drawbacks, is projected to be EUR 55,425,000, while the total expenditure at EUR 65,594,000,000, increased by EUR 2,6 billion compared to the forecast for the medium term. The main cause of an increase in expenditure remains the health crisis, and the increased physical receipts of equipment from the Ministry of National Defence are also added. I do not have to argue very much about the latter. The economic crisis has long hit the equipment programs. Our country - poorly - but that is what certain policy demands, and that is what history teaches, is forced to participate in a armaments race. Not by some kind of whispering of the governors, but because this is how we defend our laws more effectively against challenges that constantly violate international law. The new programmes of the Armed Forces are part of the fifteen-year full recovery of the problems of the crisis in recent years. On this, of course, the government's successful moves are being added to the international chess board, with a significant first agreement with the friend and ally France, whose size and value some people have unfortunately not understood or understood in this Chamber, as if foreign policy only concerns the government and not national law, so our sovereign rights. I return to the forecasts of next year's budget and because I feel sure that some of the opposition will try to falsify the tax revenues, I am also prepared to say, as the Prime Minister has said, that this revenue does not come from new taxes at all, but as a result of the dynamic relaunch of the economy. Unlike the previous government's policy, we believe that the tax relief of households and businesses, as well as the creation of a pro-investment climate, are essential components of strong growth. And after income and expenses, I come to the main factors that shape our domestic product. I am talking about private consumption, which we expect to increase by 3%, the investments that we expect to increase by 21.9% and the exports for which we also predict that they will increase by 21%. At this point, I would like to make a special reference to increasing deposits by EUR 28 billion during the pandemic period. It creates optimistic prospects, since the new money, which will soon enter the market, will have positive effects on both consumption and the creation of additional jobs. You will, of course, hear from the Opposition then talk about violent adaptation in 2022. We, ladies and gentlemen, anticipate a reduction in the deficit of 1.4% of GDP from 7% in 2021. However, this financial adjustment will not be achieved because austerity measures are provided for. On the contrary, it will come from recovery and economic growth and the gradual withdrawal of the extensive - I repeat - support measures in a way that ensures a smooth transition to normality. The support measures which obviously hit our country were a burden on the country's debt, were, of course, necessary to be implemented and implemented. However, it makes sense to withdraw - statically I repeat, in order not to falsify what I am saying - in an economy that recovers, as evidenced by the increase in deposits of households and businesses, the strengthening of the public's available income, the reintroduction of business turnover to the pre-familiar levels and the significant improvement in the macroeconomic indicators of the economy. We are in the 20th month of a coronary test, ladies and gentlemen. Let us turn our memory to March 2020, when Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and eight more leaders of the European Union sent a joint letter to the President of the Council, Mr Charles Michel, looking forward to that letter to the difficulties that would follow. They called for drastic decisions to raise capital for the benefit of all the partners in order to counter long-term damage to the economies of the pandemic. I will not go into the criticism the Prime Minister accepted at the time. It doesn't matter anymore. It is important that this initiative brought about a drastic change in European policies and was not a delusion at all as some other attempts of the past for Europe. The Recovery Fund was first created to provide EUR 750 billion for strengthening the European economy. Of this money, our country will collect, in proportion to its size, one of the largest pan-European financial packages and the largest that it has received over the last forty years as a member of the European family. Already included in the Recovery Fund forty-eight projects, EUR 2,760,000, environmental and climate crisis projects, such as the National Reafforestation Plan, energy projects such as the interconnection of Cyclades with mainland Greece, for public health, such as hospital equipment and new building infrastructure, for justice, such as the transfer of courts to Piraeus and, of course, for research and innovation, infrastructure, such as the northern road axis of Crete, as well as transport that will be strengthened by the purchase of two hundred twenty electric buses. The National Recovery Plan will be the main growth factor and will contribute 2.9 percentage points to the expected GDP growth for 2022. At the same time, the continued implementation of development measures, which were part of the government's programme before the outbreak of the economic crisis, will be a further favourable factor in achieving a high growth rate in 2022. We're reducing the corporate income tax rate, as you know, from 24% to 22%. We're motivating for compacts. Despite the criticism we have heard, the associations of small and medium-sized enterprises must be made, because this will help businesses themselves to become competitive with their counterparts in the rest of the European Union. We are introducing tax incentives for the use of electronic transactions, so that citizens and businesses are better served, but also for black money to be struck. In the policies that we are inheriting in 2022 are the abolition of the parental benefit tax up to 800,000, the increase in the minimum wage, to the extent of economic stagnation, the extension of the unemployment programme from 100 000 to 100 000 jobs, the reduction of the mobile telephony fee, the reduction of legal persons, VAT on farmers, the first sign to young people eighteen to twenty-nine years which will be financially supported for six months, so that every young person who will find a job, EUR 1,200, can then have a fixed job for these people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I close my speech I will make a special reference to health expenditure. I have been listening to the opposition for some time now to tell us that we are reducing them. I will not specifically mention the new infrastructure that has been built, such as the doubling of the IMIs, the thousands of new recruitments of nurses and medical staff, infrastructures and staff who will be staying in the ERC, but I will tell you that on the basis of the forecasts of the new budget, one of the three recruitments that will be made in 2022 in the public sector will be for the health sector. In other words, they are intended exclusively for health. The health ministry's expenditure for 2022 has been clearly increased since 2021 despite the opposite rhetoric of counter-population. In order to have a clear picture of the normal health expenditures of the Ministry of Health, I would like to put aside the extraordinary expenditure that has been incurred and which is due to be implemented next year as a result of pandemic and to make a more correct comparison with the period of governance of SYRIZA, during which there was no coronary. In this case, what do we see? We can see that for 2021 the health ministry's expenditure - apart from the emergency, I repeat - was 4.273 000 000 000 and 2022 4.521 000 000. How much was 2019 in the budget of SYRIZA? It was 3,884,000. In other words, by comparing the two budgets, apart from the temporary pandemic, we have an increase in the New Democracy Government by 637,000, 000 for 2022 without, I repeat, putting the emergency expenditure on the table. If we add them, then in 2021 the total expenditure is 5.217 000 000 and 2022 5.257 000. And since the opposition will rush to denounce that the sum of 766,000 000 of the extraordinary expenditure is not sufficient, I should like to note - and the relevant government officials have said so - that further issues relating to extraordinary expenditure will be formulated according to the needs and course of the pandemic. So if there is an extension of the phenomenon, I repeat that the government will take the additional measures. Mr President, I am finishing my speech, as at least the first two minutes were devoted to other issues. Ladies and gentlemen, closing down so as not to tire you, to say the following. The 2022 budget is a new beginning, a step from the resurgence of the pandemic towards recovery and normality, and it contradicts a number of poor anti-population forecasts. You were talking, ladies and gentlemen, about reducing growth, and we have had a spectacular increase. You were talking about new tax measures, and not only were they not taken, but a generous fiscal policy was implemented. At the beginning of my speech I referred to the numerator and denominator of a fraction, which shows the predictions of the budget of a socially sensitive political leadership that knows how to listen to the needs of the people and at the same time knows that market intervention is done in a way that leads to growth and the creation of new jobs. The budget under discussion combines social justice with economic competitiveness and growth. We protect the most vulnerable, provide incentives to healthy entrepreneurship, restore the economy to the international stage. I will not go into the voices that have been growing up and talking about the model of the Greek economy, because we are not buried, ladies and gentlemen, neither by the 'bravos' nor are our hearing satisfied with them. We know that the effort is lasting, but we also know that, despite the difficulties, we are already on the right track. Where previous government chose cut-offs for middle-class taxes, we choose reduced rates. Where obsessions encountered the utopia of changing all others other than ourselves, we insist with realism that we make the promise act and make the vision of a Greece model reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing my speech. Regardless of the criticism we will receive - naturally and necessary in our democracy - we are stepping on our feet. We will continue to work systematically next year so that in 2023 we can finally leave the pandemic deficits behind and achieve a head start, maintain the possibility of low-cost borrowing, irrespective of the decisions of the European Central Bank, by gaining an investment grade. We will achieve all this, as we have done in infinitely difficult conditions over the last two years. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group therefore expresses its confidence in the government and voted in favour of the 2022 development budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u48	Tolerance to rapporteurs and special speakers is permitted tonight, as is customary. Because the eighteen will talk, we may not finish at 0:30, but finish at 1:00. From tomorrow, however, starting with the Ministers and State Secretarys, but also to you, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office will be strict in keeping with the time, so that we do not get to Friday and Mr Voutsi's reasonable fears are justified. Not anyone who goes up today does not care what it means to the colleague who will speak the next day. Now, Mrs Ahtsoglou's colleague, Mrs. Ahtsoglou, is calling in Stepma on behalf of the SYRIZA Officer, Ms. Ahtsoglou. You have the floor, Mrs. Ahchioglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by taking the last place of the Minister of Finance in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to discuss the budget. Mr Stagiras said there - and what I shall say is a precise transfer of his words - that, unlike SYRIZA, who is firmly stuck in the illusions, lies, lack of perception of reality and hungerism, the New Democracy Government expresses the world of responsibility, seriousness, modesty, consistency, insight into and sincerity. Mr. Russopoulou, you don't call her a moderate position. So let us now try these statements by the Minister in a struggle with reality. I believe everyone will draw their conclusions. On the forehead of the pandemic. At the moment, our country is twice above the European average in the loss of human lives per million people. A hundred and thirty of our fellow citizens have lost their lives today. A thousand three hundred and eighteen fellow citizens who died in the first two weeks of December. A black record was recorded today. The vaccination program is deceiving. More than a hundred fifty patients are intubated outside the ICU. Regional hospitals have literally collapsed. A few days ago, a fourteen - year - old girl in Lamia lost his life waiting for four hours in waiting outside the ER to examine her. This is the reality with which you are interfering, gentlemen of the government. This situation in the National Health System is a disgrace to the Hellenic Republic. And now let's see the self-assessment he's doing. You're talking about seriousness and responsibility. If you are serious, the Prime Minister of the country would not say a while ago, that he has no indications that people who are being hospitalized outside the ICM are in a worse position than those who are being imprisoned in ICM. If you were honest, you would not claim with this situation that the National Health System has been adequately supported. If you were modest, you would not answer our complaints, Mr Stakoura, to the committee that 'to say that support for public health is criminally inadequate, so we accept that support for all other fronts is sufficient'. You wouldn't be in the mood for such strife if you were modest. Most importantly, if you were responsible and up-to-date, you would not reduce the public health budget, state funding for health expenditure and in 2022. Eight hundred and twenty million less than the state budget to the Ministry of Health for 2022 compared to what was spent this year, which I think any citizen on the basis of the situation I described at the outset would find them to be criminally inadequate. In fact, the financing of hospitals is falling, the financing of primary health is falling. What does the government say? He says there's this reduction. I present in the minutes the relevant list of the Ministry of Health. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I will also say about the asterisks that the Minister has often pointed out to me. So it says the government that there is this reduction that I am describing, but 600 million have been foreseen that have been put aside - let me say it - as a reserve in case of emergency, if necessary. What doesn't he say? It does not say that this year's extraordinary fund for the pandemic spent was 1.25 billion. While for 2022 it provides for these 600 million and other 136 million already allocated to the Ministry of Health. In other words, we compare 1.2 billion with 736 million. This comparison is made if we want to compare between similar things, between similar things. Comparison of the extraordinary costs for the pandemic. So the reduction here is really very serious. Whether we look at the exceptional allocations for COVID for 2022 and compare them to what has been spent this year, or do not take these into account and we only compare state funding between the year and the year to come, there is a dramatic decline. And again, the comparison is about what was spent this year, which we saw in terms of the level of protection of public health. It often does not invoke the government, possibly in the debate, the provision for 11.7 billion health expenditure. They are costs incurred by various operators who have own revenues. It has nothing to do with state funding. It's a much wider size. Therefore, it does not respond to what the State grants for public health and which reflects the government's final and political planning. But it's not just a reduction. It is also the whole conception, the philosophy of this government. It is precisely this 'if necessary' that is the problem. While our country is in the worst pandemic indices, while the World Health Organization is talking about the age of pandemics, the next pandemic will be very close, the government is looking out a window of opportunity to withdraw even this inadequate support it gave in 2021. To say it more folkly, as Mr Petsas said, "Don't throw money to the ICUs." The government also says that in 2022, 30% of its recruitment will be in public health. What doesn't he say? It does not say that 2020 and 2021 did not even make half the recruitments in the public sector of what it had to do on the basis of rule one by one, one by one. In other words, in 2022 it simply covers the gaps that it itself created with its own choices in previous years. I come to the forefront of accuracy: 4.8% record inflation in November 2021. It's a decade's record. It is here and the related diagram I table in the Minutes that shows exactly the record of the decade. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Dramatic increases in natural gas, electricity. There is a dramatic increase in food shortages and in primary food shortages. Workers, households, are being scanned just by this generalised wave of precision that is now about all the basic kinds of living. What does the government answer? The rapporteur for the New Democracy once again did so, but the ministers did so in the debate that we had in committee. The Minister said that we have the lowest inflation in Europe. Firstly, that is not the case. We do not have the lowest inflation in Europe. But we're low. We are below the European average. What doesn't the government say? It does not say that we have too strong growth trends in Greece in inflation. What doesn't he say? It does not say that other countries have taken essential protection measures from precision for society. I'll be back in a minute. What does it not say and does it not seem particularly concerned with it? That Greece is a country that came out some time ago from a deep 12-year crisis and society was already compressed before the pandemic. The growth in inflation therefore hits poor and medium-sized households very seriously. They are much more affected than in other countries that have a stable economy, a economy that has been running for years. And let us come to the real point, on the essential social issue. The social issue is how households, how workers will be able to respond to the new price level of all kinds of living, first-time species. That is the essential thing. The growing trend in inflation can sometime stop. The crucial is how workers and households respond to the new price level that has been established. There you say 'We have an increase in income of 7%'. Inflation is 4.8%, so citizens are a little too shielded. Firstly, the 7% increase relates only to the second quarter of 2021 compared to the second quarter of 2020. So, like the growth rate, comparison with a period of decline of incomes and a period of recession. Secondly, you said to the committee that we had the greatest increase in income in Europe. That's not true. It's not true. The increase in available income is placed in the middle of the European Union at the time of 2020, the second largest reduction in income across Europe. We're always talking about the second quarter. That picture you choose. The picture of this moment. I testify to her in the Minutes, too. The second largest reduction in income across Europe was in 2020. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thirdly, and if something were to be said about that argument, that we have an income increase in the second quarter, there is a problem of time. The outburst of accuracy, of this wave of dishonesty, is manifested from summer onwards. So, even if anyone was seeing this picture of the moment you're giving, it's not about the period that the wave of accuracy is actually erupting. Fourthly, the rises in individual types of primary need are more than double in inflation and are not covered by anything, not by the increase in income you call for, even if you wanted to believe that this will continue. Greater consumption and primary need goods have been revalued much more than average inflation, which is a much more burden on workers' incomes. The GSEE Institute of Labour says - I will shortly put forward the relevant document - that, with the increases in the basic kinds of living in November, the minimum wage loses 10% of its power. Fifth and most importantly, prices in basic types of living have been launched not only in comparison with 2020, but also in relation to 2019. And that is the answer to the Minister for Development, who was trying to compare it with 2020, to show that there is no such price increase that we are claiming. I am therefore tabling the relevant table showing the major increases in living and energy and in relation to 2019. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtsoglou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What's the conclusion? The conclusion is that you have chosen a reality that does not exist and you are trying to confirm it by digits of convenient elements. That's what you're doing! Every day, however, the reality that Greek society experiences is different and is much harder than the one you are trying to form. What measures are you trying to deal with? With incomprehensible inertia at first, almost depreciating, almost disappearing, and then with announcements of allowances of EUR 9 at first, 18 afterward, 39 which are then impossible to cope with this wave of appreciations and to respond to the problem, and all they actually confirm is a sloppy one. And in the budget of 2022 there is no protection from accuracy. In passing, you say about 1,1 billion protection measures from accuracy. Let's not be fooled. The 500 million you have in relation to benefits for energy costs is from renewable energy sources. It's not from the state budget. It is from the source of energy, renewable energy. The next measures announced by Mr Mitsotakis a short time ago relate, in fact, to the dividend given in December. So, are we going to consider this to be a measure of restoring accuracy the exceptional health benefit? Let's not be fooled. Do not add up things just to raise the amount and give the impression that you are doing something to protect the accuracy. We called on you to reduce excise duties on fuel. We also tabled an amendment to that effect, but you rejected it. What did Mr. Stavros say to the committee? He said the government's aid through these benefits is multiple, at least twenty-fold, he said, of the relief proposed by SYRIZA. Mr. Stavura, have you understood SYRIZA's intention? Have you seen what SYRIZA's proposal is? We are talking about excise duties on fuel! You're talking about the electricity allowance. Irrelevant things. SYRIZA has tabled an amendment to reduce excise duty on diesel, diesel, heating oil, gasoline. If you made this reduction that we are introducing at the European Union's thresholds, a household would pay less than 300 euros for heating oil per 1000 litres and a farmer would pay 2 000 euros less for medium farming. We are talking about another squeeze of relief, another of the 39 euros that you give to the household. Either you have not understood our proposal, as I have said, on fuel, or you are deliberately distorting it to cause impressions. Either way, this is not forgiven. But it is not just the excise duty on fuel. We insisted and insisted on the need to increase the minimum wage. In any event, the minimum wage would have to be increased, as the wage increased in 2019 on the rule of SYRIZA, when the disgraceful underpaid for young people was abolished. So it should be growing anyway. Especially now that there is this generalised wave of accuracy is necessary, it is necessary to increase it so that the minimum wage can have a minimum of elementary life-saving function. I mentioned to you before - and I am tabling it in the Minutes - that by the first half of November, the accuracy has reduced the purchasing power of the minimum wage by 10%. That is why I said before that it is not so important to remain at the rate of inflation, but to see how a worker, a worker, can respond with his income to the new prices that have been created. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So, what are you guys doing? You keep the minimum wage fixed, effectively praising the real income of the workers. Here there was an election commitment from the New Democracy to raise the minimum wage, twice the growth rate, a commitment that went to the ballot of unusables. What do you say, what did you say about that, that the government clearly deceived the people by its election commitment? You say, for instance, that the minimum wage should be increased as if you didn't know what had happened last year. We had a downturn of 9%. Where did you see these? What you say is not happening anywhere in the world. I quote from the Minister regarding the non-increase in the minimum wage. So let's see the reality. Nearly all the countries of the European Union - I will submit the relevant document in the Minutes - went towards an increase in the minimum wage in 2020 and 2021. And, as you know, all the countries of the European Union had a recession in 2020. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The only countries that did not increase the minimum wage were Greece and Estonia. The only countries! So what they say is happening anywhere in the world, or is it not happening anywhere? [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So take the cost of your ideas better and stop twisting reality. It was more honorable what Mr Tsakloglu did, who directly said that he disagreed with wage increases at the time when prices exploded. That was a cleaner placement. However, it is not just the issue of minimum wages that characterises your policy towards workers. We did not expect this to see what your policy is towards the workers. The 2022 budget is being built precisely in an already committed crash of labour rights: from the abolition of the term and unpaid overtime to the freezing of collective bargaining, the abolition of any barrier to unjustified redundancies and the recent blow in the statement of overworking which actually leads a worker to work for an additional hour per day, and it should not be declared, controlled and actually not paid. These measures are particularly hitting young workers who are the most insecure workers. Greece, our country, has long been first in the percentage of young people who lost their jobs during the pandemic period. Thirty percent arrived the young people who had a job and lost it during the pandemic period. This is the Eurofound research which demonstrates precisely the impact of pandemic on young people living in Europe. I testify to her in the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It seems that the communication tricks of Mr Mitsotakis with the free data and the EUR 100 per month programmes for young people do not respond to the basic problem facing young workers in our country. And all this was done in a year in which the government celebrates growth rates of 6.9%, who are obviously welcome, but to know what they are imprinting. They reflect change, reflect the result of comparison with last year's, a year of deep recession, the second biggest recession in Europe, the second biggest recession in the country over recent decades. And that's something that the government can hide. The main thing, however, is that this is a development which does not take into account, which leaves most of the Greek society outside. I have already referred to the workers. I'm coming to the retireds, too. You promised general increases in pensions and in the name of these increases you abolished the thirteenth pension, which was laid down as a permanent measure - you also voted for it, full pension for low-pensioners, percentage for the upper grades - and which was paid in 2019 and should have been paid since then. People would have been given it for the fourth time in the spring of 2022. You abolished it in the name of generalised increases. Finally, these increases proved to be a trick accountant, they were not actually for the majority of pensioners, the tenth pension was abolished and Mr Mitsotakis came to announce the day before yesterday, a manipulation, a gift to pensioners, for some of them, worth 200 million. Eliminate a quadruple and self-sufficient sum, because you only give the pensioners a gift of four times a day! And the challenges in terms of dividends are not over here. You're getting the special gift on health care, but you don't pay for their overtime. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You celebrate for a gift to people with disabilities, but you reduce the budget for benefits to people with disabilities by 50 million. You wish, in other words, to admire yourself for measures that come after many cuts, which you do. Is that exactly what policy the Minister of Finance told us at the beginning? Seriously? Responsibility? To honesty? Insight? Where is that classed as a political attitude? However, the question is not, in the end, a political moral or political one. The problem, above all, is a strategic problem that the government adopts. It is a strategy to compel low and medium-sized incomes and to increase social inequalities. And this strategy is reflected in the 2022 budget. It provides for a growth of 4.5% in 2022, but it has already discounted who will bear the burdens and who will be allocated the profits. It provides for a growth of 4.5%, but reduces state funding for the social state by 1.7 billion, for social welfare benefits, for health care at EEAS, for the support of the unemployed. These are clear choices to increase inequalities. It provides for an explosive increase in tax revenue. And here I would like to make it clear: you say that this increase in tax revenue, which is mainly from VAT, from indirect taxes, is a result of growth. But look. Growth is calculated on the basis of your estimates of 4.5% for time. The increase in tax revenues is of the order of 7.5%. It is not entirely justified by the growth rate at least. There is an asymmetry here, which should be explained and which seems to be precisely because there is investment in indirect taxes, that the people of low and medium-income will pay it. You are talking about growth, you are predicting growth, but you are almost withdrawing all support measures to workers, businesses and households. They remove 12.3 billion from the real economy. This, Mr Russopoulou, is not a gradual withdrawal. It is not a gradual withdrawal of what the government is doing. The government removes all the support measures within one year and makes a financial adjustment of 10 billion over a year. This is a very sharp, very violent fiscal adjustment. The worst part is that you committed yourself to making the biggest financial adjustment throughout Europe by 2024. First in fiscal adjustment, when the debate on where the new Stability Pact is going to be open. At the time that it has not yet been decided what the new economic environment will be after the pandemic, and all these discussions are open, our government has gone and promised that it will make the biggest financial adjustment throughout Europe! It's really worthy and outrageous because you made such a commitment, when you should claim the exact opposite, the much weaker, the much more gradual adaptation to the new circumstances. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, we have a duty to mention in relation to the 2022 budget that there are very serious risks and factors of uncertainty. Firstly, it is the question of private debt. You're saying you've reduced private debt. In fact, what has happened is that the private debt ratio has been reduced by the banks' balance sheets, but it has not been reduced by households' budgets. Still within the financial circuit, it has simply been transferred to debt management companies. In the case of HRAKLE, there is a risk that the guarantees for specific securitisations will be discounted or even worse for all the guarantees provided, for which EUROSTAT has left the guarantee open to the public debt to be measured. If that happens, it is a very serious matter. We asked you to place yourself and you haven't done it. If this happens and these oppressed guarantees of public debt are met, we will have a very serious problem, with enormous responsibility for the government of Mr Mitsotakis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude very quickly, Mr President. Secondly, on Thursday the European Central Bank is expected to take decisions on what will happen after the end of the PEPP programme. Given that our country does not have an investment grade, this decision is extremely critical to the level of public debt refinancing interest rates and private sector interest rates. Thirdly, it is the Recovery Fund, in which you invest in particular the growth potential of 2022. In 2021 it didn't go well. You had predicted expenditure last year, at this time, of 2.6 billion for 2021 and this year, as it turns out, there will be no 150 million expenditure on the Recovery Fund. It is a very serious problem, it is a very great risk for time too. I'm closing, Mr. President. There is a very important message, a very important lesson, I think, that we should take from the pandemic, which taught us something. And this lesson is that from doctors to distributors it was the work forces that stood up to them, when our societies were literally on the limit. We need to remember this and constantly ask ourselves whether our political system, if our institutional system stands to the extent of circumstances, stands at its height towards these people, to the world of work. It is obvious that a conservative, right-wing government, in many authoritarian, neither can nor does it want to stand up to the world of work. This could be done by a progressive majority, which could be expressed by SYRIZA, but even so we would constantly be involved in practice, we would be constantly interfering with the daily lives and problems of this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u50	The rapporteur from the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalidis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the most important piece of legislation of the year is starting to discuss today, and I think it is what ultimately identifies the steps that we will follow in the difficult days that come and we must always set our economy, our society, in a wider international context, because economic and social developments in the country are moving, joining and interacting with it and as this is shaped in the unprecedented conditions that we are experiencing. With the unexpected development of the pandemic, which has not been saying to cut off for two years, and the climate crisis has evolved with geometric progress, we are literally living in a period of revelation and uncertainty, a time of unforeseen turmoil and global change. An era that brings to the fore the major demand for the protection of life on the planet, restores to the political agenda the necessity of the interventionist social state, exaggerates the long-term problems of poverty, angility, illness, unfair disequivalent distribution of wealth, speeds up the proliferation of digital capitalism to broaden social inequalities, imperatively highlights the need for environmental and ecological equilibrium. In this uncertain and fluid environment, the European Union has been forced to take decisions that have taken it out of the past of a road that has not led anywhere, perhaps not in full response to the demands of the times, in which it has once again appeared relentless, but in its decisions it has given its members a breath in order to cope with the crisis even temporarily. Thus, our country and then its economy have been found and has long been on a course where its currency has two sides. One side writes the word "opportunity" and on the other side writes "revolving crises". The opportunity for our country remains alive, I would say, despite the honest efforts of the government to weaken it. Interest rates remain very low - not known for how long yet - the quantitative relaxation programmes to one point have stimulated markets for a long time, budgetary discipline has reached, at least by the end of 2022, providing the possibility of using a budget area that all countries have rushed to exploit. The European Union has taken the big step in lending itself and arming its members through the Recovery Fund and its complementary policies with a sufficient amount of resources to cope with the difficulties. It is another opportunity for the country to raise its economy, to recover development and to resolve fundamental injustices and acute social injustices. On the other side of the coin, however, there are the recycled crises marked by the continuing irreversible pandemic, the energy crisis, asymmetric threats, the dramatic burden on the climate. Today we are living in the combination of pandemic outburst and unaltered inflation, an explosive cocktail, with uncontrolled appreciations, with the lack of fuel and energy and the dependency of the European Union on gas, with the huge crisis in the supply chain and product markets. And the worst, in future, quantitative relaxation will obviously be reduced, interest rates will begin to rise and debt will become even more unbearable. The country has already had to prepare for this, but the government seems to have this need to go through with unbelievably lightness and difficult self-sufficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of these contradictory circumstances, the Greek society stands skeptical and insecure. The market is constantly restless and problematic. The vulnerable layers of the population, households, low incomes, the unemployed, the forces of the social margin, but also the vast majority of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, are led to a state of continuous degradation, poverty and poverty. A new social majority of non-preferentials is thus formed. Unfortunately, your government follows this dramatic development in time. You are trying to cover the lost ground with a policy of temporary benefits. You pray that the crisis is over once and not recycled, predicting its end and each time you disprove. You systematically ignore the need to design a productive and development model that can withstand new crises. You are baptising your emblematic political choices and refuse to cope better with the structural problems the economy has today. This lack of real vision, planning and necessary initiatives is illustrated in the state budget you submitted for the critical year ahead. Let us look at the structure of the budget. For years - especially in the last few years - our parliamentary experience confirms the view that the budgets have not been so aimed at adapting to the reality and the needs that this indicates. They are, unfortunately, adapted to the needs of the individual government account. It is true that developments, economic, political and social, are difficult to predict and that is why we are seeing almost always significant discrepancies between the accounts and the budgets of each year. They are often disproved because their authors confuse these assumptions with their desires and prejudices. In Greece we lived this with the creative accounting before 2009, which contributed decisively to the 10-year adventure that the country experienced because of the then government of New Democracy. We have also lived with the memorial budgets and the incomprehensible forecasts dictated by the troika. The same work goes on now. For us, a plan for substantial intervention begins before and above all with another type of budget, a budget with alternative scenarios and corresponding forecasts and, above all, with another structure and allocation of available resources. A modern state budget should have clearly defined and separate resources for regional, environmental and social dimensions. A separate budget is needed for a credible social state, which is not only a welfare state, but also a lever for growth contributing to wealth production and GDP growth. For example, we also discussed in committee and here if the funds for public health are some tens of millions more or less than 2021, and we should be talking about substantial excesses, while the hundreds of thirty people are now crying out and the miserable hospitals in the country, and it seems that the government's intentions are to sell out the National Health System. She doesn't care. There is no separate social budget that enables this system to move backwards. There should be substantial overrun and in a productive way. We don't think it's an overrun that gives them resources and throws them into an empty spoon. We are asking for real resources that produce, which have social usefulness and social recompense. The same should be put on the table and address the need for a credible environmental and green policy and for multiple resources to be made available to address the problems of civil protection. You were shouting about delaying damage from older governments, but today the same and greater delays exist in the new natural disasters that the country lives almost twice every month. And of course what is literally absent from your budget is an integrated regional planning that organises economic and business activity around development cities in each region. The Prime Minister's announcements at the beginning of his term of office are not depicted anywhere, as all resources are gathered in the so-called state of office and distributed by decision. And the Minister of Finance, each time counts benefits and individual aids, running behind the revolving crises, when Greece had to unite its productive forces in each region and develop in a completely different way and on the basis of the opportunity given to it today by the resources it possesses, another type of self-regulatory development, so that each region could acquire its own personality, its own identity. So, first of all, it is a state budget that does not respond to times. In the explanatory statement, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you clearly set out the central record that is the forefront of your proposal, which you support with a uniformity of communications instruments. That is, you say, a budget that is fully restored and restored to normality. The questions put and must be answered are three: How much does the total reinstatement journey cost in 2019 that you set as a target? Do all the Greeks come back on this trip? Is the status quo in which we return really normality and what kind of regularity? I would like to reply very specifically to all these three questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is taking on board the support package it has implemented so far and that it is the third largest in the euro area as a percentage of GDP and the fourth worldwide according to the report of the European Stability Mechanism. It does seem that way if we look at the evidence. According to the European Union's recent estimates, Greece has moved from the surplus 4.1% of 2019, far the largest in the European Union, to a primary deficit of 7.1%, the fourth highest in the European Union in 2020 and the primary deficit of 7.3%, the third highest in the European Union in 2021. An obvious question arises: Since 2020 we have had the second deepest recession in the European Union of the 'two-seven', why do we not have the second largest growth in 2021? It is recalled that 2020 has had long-standing measures to limit economic and social activity and a tourist season that has turned us back years. Should the lifting of the restrictions of 2021 not have been enough for a dynamic recovery in line with the base result, the famous 'V' of classical economists, the spring which dynamically ejects the economy from the bottom up and which enables the government today to view it as its exclusive and effective success? Having done such a big programme and spent the greatest financial distance from the 2019 surplus in the 2020 and 2021 deficits, should we not have an excellent performance in relation to our partners? Why, with much lower measures, Hungary, Estonia, Croatia has achieved greater performance for their economies and Slovenia, Romania, Italy, have achieved a performance that was close to us? Why, in the final analysis, did the majority of countries have a better GDP performance for each euro spent? We do not judge you because you have chosen an expansive fiscal policy, or why you have discovered the situation in the world, or why the Prime Minister has suddenly become a social democrat. On the contrary, as your additional measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, the low pensioners and the health workers announced and changed the data recorded in the budget, there is further room for additional financial space. The criticism we reasonably exercise is that your benefit policy nor macroeconomic efficiency ensures neither better targeting nor fair distribution includes. On the contrary, they came with a delay, as the greatest 2020 recession shows, horizontal without escalation and specialisation, are fragmentary, selective and timely and some had privileged access to some of them, especially to banking. All of this made your measures less efficient than those of our European partners and at the same time test the strengths of society and the economy. And, of course, the responsibility lies not only with the government's financial staff, but with all governmental failures in the management of the pandemic since the summer of 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst deficit in the state budget is that the total return does not concern all Greeks, not even the majority of Greeks. On the journey back to normality, some do not even go on board, while most of them are stacked on their reefs and few, having and possessors, travel in luxurious cabins, having access to the privileges offered to them. The government is proud that the European Central Bank's latest available data show that its gross available income has increased by 7.3% annually in the second quarter of 2021 and that the euro area's equivalent has just reached 4.8%. We are opposed to the classic but real and self-evident rejection of the method of comparing the averages, a comparison that puts small and large incomes in the same bag, which levels the real social inequalities, because the average is a magical number, because it involves social forces from the bottom to the top. But also with this criterion, the average criterion, as far as the overall course is concerned, should not be asked, because while GDP is increasing by 7%, does not the income available per capita increase accordingly, even by the appreciation of this income expanding? Therefore, all citizens should theoretically receive a significant share in the distribution of wealth and income in a fair system. What's going on in practice? We do not have to prove self-evident that for the unemployed, the pensioners, the employees, in the vast majority of those who have not had a substantial increase in their incomes, 7.3%, for whom you are proud, it has no real impact. And now comes inflation, as well as indirect taxation, to literally squeeze the amputated by their far-reaching ten-year income crisis, which, by revaluing to a weekly basis and the ratio of indirect taxes, is constantly shrinking. Let's invoice from one Saturday to another Saturday the housekeeper's basket with the main kinds of food. I claim that there are over 10% increases weekly in many of the basic food products. But for the small and medium-sized enterprises too, things are not pomegranate. As indicated by the report of the Institute for Small Enterprises of GATT on the impact of the pandemic in the first half of 2021, turnover was higher than that of the first half of 2020 but much less than 2019. In contrast to government calculations, then, it should be understood that income is scientifically sound and socially fair, valued in terms of purchasing power, what the Greek consumer buys, for example, with the same amount of euros compared to that of many European citizens. Greece, with the recession in 2020, according to EUROSTAT and on the basis of this criterion, was in the last position in twenty-seven countries, in front of Bulgaria alone, with per capita income at the rate of purchasing power, as I said before, corresponding to 64% of the European average. It should be noted that the country was in favour of increased inflation precisely. The Greeks, according to the price level indexes also at purchasing power parities, already paid the telecommunications and more expensive energy, focus, tourist accommodation, transport services. Was there any analogy with this accuracy and its increase in the plundering at this time, with the development of pensions and lower wages? What does 2% say? What's that supposed to mean? And if we do 4%, what does 4% say in front of this development? That is why it is unacceptable that the issue of inflation should be treated so cynically, compared with the European average. While the Greek consumer pays taxes of 2,2 billion. The Commission has not yet taken a decision on this, and the income tax only reaches 1.3 billion euros. The euro. Consequently, even if the number you call uniformly is true, we have not made any huge leaps, we are urging. I'll tell you with a phrase. We have become the Greeks to be paid as Balkans and to pay or buy as Europeans. The Balkans who buy at European prices. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the third question. The favorite and kilowatted motto that covers all conservative, neoliberal and non-liberal, political and journalistic, is their inclusive return to normality, their obsession with the idea that in the same way we were driven this far we will return to the starting point where we started, a linear, straight, almost law-abiding development: In such time we will leave the pandemic behind, in so much time we will recover from the crisis, in such a time as our economy will recover, in such a time that the age of gut cows will end. It is the so-called rationalization of the only road to economic and development. By then we will take measures that are timely, relieving, sharing the emergency benefits, fueling the country's immediate needs from the surplus of resources. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The question is how is regularity being described today? For example, is the accuracy and oligopolistic structures that pluck her out? Is it normal, for example, for the third highest taxation in Europe to be disproportionately burdened by small and medium-sized and medium-sized households between the twenty-seven countries of the European Union, when the country actually taxes bonuses, dividends, bonuses on Golden Boys, footballers, donations, gorillas and swimming pool villas? Is it normality on this tax mix, for example, with the 2022 budget, to increase taxes by 60% again from indirect taxes, namely public consumption? Is it normal for 40% of loans inside and out of balance sheet - does it not matter - to be'red' and the new bankruptcy code threatening to relieve half Greeks of the loans? Is it normality, for example, for the long-term investment gap with fixed investment as a percentage of its GDP to have been stable for a decade, the lowest in Europe and about half of the European average? Is it, for example, normality a banking system that, while receiving exceptional financing from the European Central Bank in March 2020, of around EUR 40 billion, has not found investment opportunities to finance it and deposit liquidity with the Bank of Greece? Perhaps it is normal when after 11 years of implementation of the deprivation programme, as stated in the explanatory statement, have been collected on a cash basis of EUR 7.5 billion. But the government in 2021 through the zeroing in Piraeus, which started to burn 2.36 billion euros. Public property? This normality, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be a one-way path for a country and a society that is constantly at the centre of the recycled crises, nor is it exhausted in the welfare of numbers that do not describe but obscure reality. Another model of productive and development, which produces wealth and fairly allocates burdens, costs and benefits, requires structural changes and reforms, which a conservative government refuses to understand and operate, refuses to look at the future and describe a road that is durable and difficult that leads the place to prosperity. However, by choosing, as the poet says, we must consider how we are going, not only in 2022, but also in the unknown 2023. This year's state budget for its completion if it is not revised in the meantime, which is most likely, attempts to achieve a budgetary convergence of ECU 9.6 billion. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the French Government to the steel industry. In addition, ECU 5.2 billion has been allocated for the construction of a plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the installation of a new plant for It should be noted that some revenues should increase at about twice the rate of growth, which is very difficult, which is almost impossible. The reduction in costs such as this, following a multiannual reduction, is likely to lead many sectors of the public to a limiting effect, as well as almost impossible. The question is whether there is the end of budgetary relaxation in all of this and whether we are forced in 2023 or, if you want, in the second half of 2023, or whether you want to go to high surpluses in 2024, given that growth rates are clearly much smaller and the debt will remain in a huge proportion of GDP, will we be in front of new memoranda? This is the central, strategic question for the Greek economy, which, if there is no development model different, will not be answered. We are very afraid that your Government, in its mind, committed to the electoral cycle and with a very narrow strategic horizon, as it turns out, can facilitate this negative development. You are obliged not only to know where the debate is today at European level and what we are claiming, but also to show designs and alternative scenarios. Or you'll find accountable to history. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget, despite the benefits of the government, is once again unfair, unjust, anti-social, anti-developmental and, above all, in poor prospects of implementation, a reality that the country has been living every year in recent times and that the prosperation of its figures is in perfect contrast to the reality of people's lives. Our negative position, the vote on this budget, is clear, of course, with the exception of defence expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. The general rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government celebrates the high growth rates of GDP and, of course, all other parties are converging precisely in this need, namely how the capitalist economy will develop. But all parties, both the government and the other parties, cover up the basic. So what's the main thing? Where did this development come from? We say clearly: two main factors. On the one hand, the escalation of the anti-government attack on what was left over, continuing with the anti-government policy of the previous SYRIZA-ANEL government, stepped on the anti-government background that formed the memorial period, generalised the settlement of working time and the removal of eight hours, adapting the labour market to the needs of business groups, in other words creating a mechanism for the reproduction of a very cheap and consumable labour force without rights. You jointly led to the increase in the degree of exploitation of the working class and all this at a time when labour productivity is escalating due to developments in technology and science. But, really, who is hitting this huge increase in labour productivity in capitalism? The inhabitants of the means of production are fruited. The unpaid work that is fruitful is being ejected, their profits are being ejected. That is why the wealth produced in ever less hands is accumulated worldwide. On the other hand, what fate do you hold for the workers? Generalised insecurity, millions of lost jobs, intensification of labour, overcompression of average wages. But let us make a case of work: in conditions of socialised means of production and social ownership in the means of production, what effects would we have? We would have less and less working hours and higher pay for the workers. We would have eliminated unemployment. We would have more time for the working class, so that workers can participate in the management of productive units, in the labour-state authorities from below to above, in order to monitor the progress of projects and decisions. They would have more time to deal with culture, with sport, to ensure a higher level of life, spiritual development and cultivation. But what are we telling you now? Here you have condemned over a third of the workers living at 350 euros a month and we are not talking about the unemployed. So here's the supremacy of socialism. On the other hand, in order to have these high growth rates, incentives, incentives and other incentives, tax incentives, new, spatial incentives, urban incentives. And the list isn't over. Packages and other financing packages for their investment projects to support the investment projects of business groups. Fund for growth and competitiveness, ESRB, Public Investment Programme, underpin everything in the needs of business groups. Financing, which of course doesn't fall out of the sky. Funding, resulting from the taxation of workers and the new lending, which will be called upon to pay back the popular layers. So many pay to get the few. And apart from the fact that you have created a very cheap labour force and without rights, you are subsidising them over the workers. Active employment programmes: wages and social security contributions are subsidised by the State. Employment Acquisition Programs: Subsidy of State wages, insurance contributions. You've reached the point where you've offered free labor power. 100%, he says, wage subsidies and social security contributions for the young workers nineteen to twenty-nine years of age employed by enterprises in depopulated areas. They pay off the workers to work, i.e.! That's a nice system. Full-time charity. But you also form new sectors of activity, which ensure even higher profitability rates for business groups, supplying people's needs. So these were the two main factors. But let us also see the consequences of this capitalist development. Alongside hitting the people's income. What should we want to do first? From the reductions in wages and pensions maintained despite growth and despite the formal expiry of the memoranda? Since the huge tax raid on the popular layers, which remains now and after the recovery, and after the formal end of the memoranda? From the ever-enlarged commercialisation of social needs for health, welfare, education and culture, which people need to put their hand in their pockets very deeply to meet these needs? And as if not all of this were enough, the accuracy from above is also added, the accuracy, which of course is not a natural phenomenon, but is the genuine child of capitalist development. Is it or is it not the accuracy of the expansionist monetary policy, progressive selection by SYRIZA, by KINAL and by MERA25? So what does an expansive monetary policy mean? It means that we offer very cheap money to meet the needs of business groups and, on the other hand, we create inflation, which consumes popular incomes. Here, then, when the JRC says that the medicine that meets the needs of business groups is at the same time a medicine for peoples and their needs. It is or is not the exact result of the huge indirect taxation that lifts the popular layers, which all governments together have formulated the specific framework - VAT, excise duty - and now you are making some advances, such as a temporary reduction in VAT, a unit, half. While, the essence is that VAT, the indirect tax, breaks people's incomes. That is why the JRC says abolishing VAT on all goods satisfying modern folk needs, on all services that meet the needs of the people's layers and, of course, the excise duties. Is the accuracy of the policy, which all governments have been faithfully serving - from KINAL, New Democracy, SYRIZA - for the liberalisation of the electricity market and the 'green' transition to energy? The RES at the hands of the predators has launched electricity prices. The transitional fuel, which you have all agreed to be the gas in our country, the imported fossil fuel, pulls upwards and because of geostrategic competition. In order for the RES to become attractive, you have set and you are constantly broadening - all the governments that have passed this place and the whole of the European Union - the fees for pollution trading in order to make lignite inconsistent, but also at the same time with the charges for pollution paid by the people, you are financing business groups in the field of renewable energy sources and, at the same time, you are also giving a piece to meet the very great energy poverty needs you have condemned in broad popular terms. And finally, SYRIZA - it was his turn - made the stock exchange the European Union's energy-directional - which is a factor in the escalation of electricity prices. What is the result of these policies? The energy poverty that is plagued by popular strata and the launching of energy prices. To imagine: If the energy production instruments and sources of energy were social property, if the central design were to exist, then combined could be implemented all the criteria. Who's that? To exploit all domestic sources and forms of energy, on a scientific basis, to determine the mixture of energy, sufficient and cheap energy for the needs of the people, but also for the needs of socialist production and respect for the environment. In combination, all these criteria will never be met by capitalism. On the contrary, it undermines them. It is another example of the supremacy of socialism. In general terms, to see this green transition, which is a cause for environmental protection. The pain of the capitalists for the environment, who themselves destroy it, who fight wars and which destroy not only the environment, but human life itself. However, they do not only destroy the environment in this way, they destroy it and they destroy it through the use of business because they deform it, they alter it and they alter it on the basis of the needs of business groups. That is not the issue, therefore, of protecting the environment, but, on the contrary, of finding a way out for overcompensated funds, which are still inertible. So the green goods will be even more expensive and inappropriate for the people. In addition, green investment will lead to the loss of millions of jobs worldwide. The first ones are already recorded. Another result is that under conditions of capitalist development and high-population, as the government says, we have the outbreak of the pandemic with tragic consequences. The hospitals cannot respond and the Government of New Democracy, by continuing SYRIZA’s policy not only refuses to support the public health system and demand the private sector without compensation, but accelerates the privatisation process, strengthens health merchandise and by means of a tool that says “new YES”, proceeds to mergers of hospitals and clinics, to public and private partnerships in the face of the road widened by SYRIZA through the establishment of the Santorini Hospital to a legal person governed by private law. In pandemic conditions, health systems have been very hard tested in all capitalist economies, especially in the most developed, with millions of sick people and the huge number of victims, which have highlighted the huge problem of sub-financing and trade in health systems, the major shortages in hospitals, the misery that prevails in primary health care, the choice of urban classes and their governments to support the private sector, which is constantly spreading and increasing its profitability. The strategy of the European Union and urban governments face the protection of the health of the people as an individual matter. The vaccines, which are very necessary to combat the coronary, have become an area of competition between the multinationals and the capitalist states. Their use was not combined with the shielding of health structures. Here, when I compare it to socialism, there is no comparison. Even Cuba with the very many problems due to the sixty-year-old hard economic exclusion from the United States created five vaccines, sent brigades of doctors and nurses to developed capitalist states, Italy and Spain, sent medicines and consumables sanitary material, while one capitalist country was stealing consumables from the other capitalist country, while the nurses of the most developed health systems used the waste bags as a means of protection. And, of course, we are talking about growth, which is taking place in an international environment with serious precarious consequences, with the slowing down of the Chinese economy, with the intensity of the US-China conflict, such as competition for rare earths, a dispute that must be noted to have a negative impact on the competitive investment projects that these two countries have in our country, Chinese investment on the travel path towards US ports, shipyards, which will serve particularly the needs of imperialist planning and the American fleet. With serious uncertainties, the International Monetary Fund is reviewing its forecasts precisely because of the energy price trend, due to developments in supply chains and the impact on the rise in commodity prices in conditions where the dispute is exacerbated within the European Union, in particular between France and Germany, both for inflation and interest rates if they have to rise, for what to be the transitional fuel for the 'green' transition, for the revision and in what way the Stability and Recovery Pact should be. These are issues, of course, which may lead to a slowdown in recovery rates. For the state budget, we must stress that this is a tool for implementing the government's economic policy. It is divided into two main sections: revenue and expenditure. On the revenue side, i.e. who pays, it's clean. Tax revenue is estimated to amount to more than EUR 50 billion, rising by EUR 3 billion compared to this year. The lion's share of this increase will come from indirect taxes, the anti-grassroots, which are mainly borne by people's incomes and which account for 57% of total tax revenue. Total tax revenue is actually charged to people's backs, while, on the contrary, business participation moves to a symbolic level of less than 5% of total tax revenue despite an increase in profitability. The tax system is a timeless anti-grass system. However, this picture has deteriorated even worse with the new tax burdens imposed on the people at the time of memoranda and will continue to deteriorate further because of tax competition, which leads to a continuous reduction in tax rates for businesses and new tax exemptions, e.g. excessive depreciation. The two typical examples are known, the constitutionally regulated tax immunity, the armament fund, which then all parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA, and the Change Movement rejected the JRC's proposal to abolish. Secondly, no government, nor did SYRIZA, apply Articles 15 and 17 of Law 3041/2002. This special tax law has never been applied to immovable legal persons. This law has never been implemented. And what does the State's account say in his tax revenue report? ‘This tax could generate revenues of EUR 4 billion’, when the revenues from HNVIA are only EUR 2.5 billion. That is why we say that with your policies and taxation the people pay and the capital is exempted. But also on the expenditure side, who, in other words, takes advantage of the state budget, and the answer here is inconsistent: capitalist business groups. In spite of the increase in GDP, which the government is advertising and the increases in tax revenue, we note that expenditure on workers, pensions, health and education remain frozen, despite the enormous needs that exist. The deafening example is primary health care. Over the years, around 130 million euros have been provided by all governments for primary health care. That's why he's a mess. We, of course, do not make a simple addition to misery, given 1 or 2 million more in these areas, but we compare these amounts of insufficient health, education and welfare expenditure with the enormous needs that exist. On the other hand, we see a huge increase in expenditure relating to the needs of business groups for the so-called green and digital transition. A digital transition that is not class-neutral, but at the hands of capitalists will help further broaden social inequalities. It'll be a weapon for e-mailing and suppression. Besides, prepare for e-taxation, where you will create the individual file for each taxpayer, for the automatic collection of debts, but also for the seizures to be made. So the funding of the Ministry of the Environment is quadrupled for the Ministry of Digital Governance, in order to shape the infrastructure necessary for the needs of the monopolies and, on the other hand, for the bells for another year, the necessary and necessary infrastructure to protect the people's property made with the sufferings of life and human life are being carried out. In other words, there is no need for the infrastructure necessary for integrated anti-military protection, for integrated anti-nuclear protection, for an integrated earthquake shield, because these infrastructures are entering the front-stage bed of the European Union for the cost of benefits. So the urban state proves to be effective for capital and inefficient for the people. The expenditure of 2022 on new armaments, which serves imperialist designs, is also increasing. A total of 7.5 billion will be allocated for the new armaments programmes and for naval costs, which in essence serve the objectives of the ruling geostrategic upgrading class, thus increasingly involving our country in the dangerous American imperialist designs in the region, turning it into an outlet for these designs and at the same time a magnet for attracting retaliation. So it is confirmed once again that the state budget, regardless of the governments, is a means of class redistribution, that is, it pays a lot to benefit the few, and in recent years it has also been exploited for a secondary redistribution in the context of poverty management, where the less poor pay the various relief benefits of the most impoverished layers. And now is New Democracy fighting SYRIZA who gives most of the benefits to those who have condemned them to impoverishment? And, of course, you don't say who pays these benefits. The less poor are paying for them than they are. And only the comparison of two sizes reveals the class character of government policy. According to the government, real GDP will rise by 4.5% in 2022. The average salary, how much will it increase? It will increase 0,2%, marginal change. So, what's he confirmed? That wage earners will get a more and more piece of the created pie, thus creating even more social inequalities. Of course, the criticism of the other forces is unstable in terms of government policy. It focuses on the responsibility of the alleged government, not that there is, in fact, no source of accuracy is the expansionist monetary policy that SYRIZA has made its flag. In the United States, for example, of Biden, who SYRIZA, the Change Movement and Mer25 regard him as a global reformer, inflation runs at 6.8% by presenting a 40-year-old record. It says that the Government is moving outside European normality, when, on the contrary, the Government implements European regularity, i.e. implements the Pan-European Memorandum of the Recovery and Competitiveness Fund, which they voted jointly in the European Parliament and the New Democracy and the SYRIZA and the Change Movement. A flag of SYRIZA's criticism, of course, has become the lowest wage, but it is without substance, because it does not say what is going to happen with the insurance contributions, which Mr Tsipras said to the BSE industry. What about average wages and some employees? The image of only two elements shows it all. Part-time work compared to 2009 increased from 12% to 30%. The average wage fell by 27.8% in the private sector on the basis of the official figures. I'll deliver these evidence. This is the result of your own deeds of all governments. In this respect, then, we are clearly saying that the opposition krone is in vain trying to cover up your convergence for the need for high rates of capitalist development, for the need for a green and digital transition that serves the needs of capital, for geostrategic upgrading. In close cooperation, of course, Mera25, which makes a number of partial proposals. Proposals, in fact, are bankrupt by life itself, such as cooperatives. What time is it? At a time when the ironic laws of the capitalist economy lead to an increasing concentration and increase in the size of capitalist enterprises.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u54	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u55	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Twenty-seven minutes spoke to Mrs Ahtsioglu, and I will be done with twenty-seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u56	To conclude, Mr Colleague, but I do not accept comparisons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u57	Two minutes, I need, Mr President, just like the others who spoke with the comfort of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u58	Please take the lowest, however, not just the highest. Mr Scandalides spoke twenty-four and a half minutes and Mr Rusopoulos spoke twenty-five. Well, hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u59	I would have finished without this interruption, Mr President. So, through these gloomy proposals and criticism, you want to cover the capitalist barbarism and the rotten system. And when the carrot doesn't pass the incorporation, use the whip of repression, state and employers, which goes hand in hand with the anti-government policy. All the governments in Greece have resorted to state repression and the SYRIZA government and all the governments of the European Union, for example, the Spanish government, which is fighting with KINAL, who is best represented by SYRIZA. We have Candith's miners, who were on strike, where he tried to suppress it with violent police repression, using armored vehicles, tear gas and plastic bullets. So that's the whole procedure you're defending. Against all this, the JRC today clearly says that there cannot be a way out for the benefit of the people within the walls. Capitalism is a brake on social developments, broadening the gap between potential and the satisfaction of people's needs. And this great truth shows the direction of the popular struggle for overthrowing, for socialism, which is the answer to the 21st century. No savior is going to save the people. History has proved that only the people can save their people when they are determined on the path of overthrow, to take the wheel of authority in their own hands. Through everyday struggles we can form a pan-Hellenic coordinated movement of the working class and its allies, aimed at the real opponent, monopolies and capitalism. The JRC enters and has all its powers to organise its counter-response to put their own seal on developments. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the tolerance, despite the controversy we have had, stressing that the JRC is, of course, voting against the state budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u60	Only it was unfortunate to compare and you should not be doing so. I think so. Please take care of the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u61	There was no controversy, Mr President. Just reminding us of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u62	I didn't have any controversy. It was just too unfair to compare and no time-consuming, because you get the upper end, but the bottom you don't always get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u63	We always get the upper limbs, Mr President! We're targeting high!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u64	Yes, yes! It is now the general rapporteur for the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we will start from the fact that when a country owes EUR 386,8 billion to its lenders on 30-9-2021, as we will submit to it in the minutes - later, all together - or 234% of 2020's GDP, while at the same time its government throws out of the window lignite reserves valued around EUR 300 billion, it is unfortunately doomed, though if it does not require the legitimate military redress that Germany owes it, of over EUR 300 billion, even according to recent reports from the German press, as well as we will deposit in the Minutes, while it says it will not mine its energy reserves in the Aegean, valued EUR 427 billion, on the basis of a study by the German Deutsche Bank since 2012, when it does not change its failed economic model, sticking to the monopolies in the Aegean, while it does not even link to its primary sector of supply, with a result of more than 80% of its primary supply, and is not even more than its primary supply. It is also doomed when its Government has adopted its policy of'seeing and doing', while it faithfully implements the directives - the mandates, better - of the troika, as is concluded by the assessments of enhanced supervision, where, if you read them, one predicts the future. Enhanced supervision is not the new name of the Troika - or 'institutions' of the past - reminding us that the Deputy Minister confirmed to the committee that we never left the memorandum, since Greece is the only European Union country that is strictly controlled every three months, just like at the time of the troika. It is also doomed, when with borrowing money it subsidises the economy and transfers the country's obligations to the future, to our children and to the children of their children, after was wasted EUR 43.3 billion in just two years - I repeat, EUR 43.3 billion in two years - the amount-record for our country, borrowing 41 billion from abroad plus the loss of EUR 1.1 trillion, which remains. Apart from the public debt, there is another tom block broken over the heads of the Greeks: the "red" private debt, amounting to 244 billion euros in July 2021 or about one and a half GDP. So, as one understands, both the public - under the conditions mentioned - and the'red' private debt is not sustainable and it is absolutely essential to find a solution, a realistic solution. We must stress that, despite the fact that by 2024 we will have sold out the entire stock of public enterprises, we will only have received EUR 11 billion in total since 2011, which started selling, as the budget says, with our state debt growing constantly, adding that the current government is the only one that has started to reinstate its medium-term, as we will testify in the Minutes. What increases the debt? From the budget deficits, that is, from the State's losses. In particular, with regard to the general government, the deficit, the damage amounted to EUR 16.7 billion in 2020 or to 10.1% of GDP over the past four years. It will then increase to 17 billion in 2021, while it is estimated at 7.4 billion in 2022 from the budget. In just three years, that is, our state, which, instead of producing wealth, produces losses, will lose to the best of EUR 41.1 billion, or about 25% of 2020 GDP - I repeat, 25% of 2020 GDP - a huge figure. If we think here that the sale of everything, as we have said, will give us money of 11 billion euros, as much as a quarter of the damage caused to Greece by the government, we will understand the size of the mismanagement, unique in the country's historical times. As if not all of this were enough, the current account deficit, which of course includes the trade deficit and tourist revenues, was launched at 7.9% of GDP in 2020 from 2.4% in 2019, a percentage that has been in the worst performance of our economy since 2011. Even worse, our trade deficit increased in 2021 at the same time as GDP growth, which means that we produce less, and that any growth is not sustainable, while at the same time increasing our trade deficit. As a result of our balance-sheet deficits, our external debt, namely our public and private debt abroad, was launched in July 2021 to EUR 526.4 billion, as we will naturally deposit in the Minutes, from about 400 billion in 2018. It has therefore increased by 125 billion in just three years, substantiating the total loss of the competitiveness of our economy, despite the painful internal devaluation of the time of the first memoranda. So Greece's net international position, the difference between those held abroad by Greeks and foreigners in Greece, has deteriorated by 20.8% of GDP, -175% or -290 billion euros. The numbers are really scary. Is it not clear, therefore, how we change our country's ownership status, as we have said many times in the past? Through the sale of our public property and electronic private auctions to the bankruptcy law that this government has passed? With such wonderful twin deficits and debts, how can Greece have a future? Of course, there are solutions, even today, as we have described in our programme, to the Greek Solution programme. But not when mismanagement continues, indifferent lending, waste and total indifference to productive investment. No, when no wealth is produced, but debts on debts. As we have not mentioned and will testify in the Minutes, Israel had GDP of about 220 billion in 2008 and Greece, then, 350 billion dollars, while in 2020 Israel's GDP increased to 400 billion and Greece's collapsed to 189 billion. When Israel increased its GDP to 12 years by 180 billion, Greece decreased by 160 billion. If this is not the complete failure of our governments, what is it? If the government now thinks that this totally disastrous picture, the epitome of mismanagement, will be compensated by the recovery rate for 2021 and 2022 - by the way, we anticipated from the beginning between 7.5% and 8% for 2021 - think it is aimed at fools. In particular, with the 43 billion that was wasted on loans of 41 billion and the deficits - with the atrocious damage, that is, we have said - only one fool would see a fall in GDP as a success by 5.65 % in 2021 compared to 2019. We repeat, the fall and not the rise of our GDP from 183,25 billion in 2019 to 177,6 billion in 2021. How much more so when, although our economy was supported by 17.5% of GDP as a whole, according to the IMF, with more, namely, from all the other countries, including Germany, we had the second biggest recession in the European Union in 2020, despite the fact that Greece comes from a accumulated fall of 25% of its GDP, unlike all the other states which did not have this fall, of course. Continuing, in committee, we asked for a clarification of the interest of the swaps added to the remaining interest, totalling EUR 6.77 billion for the period 2017 to 2022. Interest on swaps of 6.77 billion. If it were correct, that is to say, our information, according to which in 2018 the SYRIZA Government, aiming to maintain stable interest rates on the transnational loans of the first Memorandum, totalling GLS 52.9 billion, decided to enter into interest rate swaps with 16 negotiators of the Bank of Greece and the four systemic banks. The result was to impose the State with around EUR 6 billion for no reason, since, if the swap had not been done, the interest that the State would have paid would have been about EUR 200 million and not EUR 6,77 billion, and finally paid between 2018 and 2022 totalling EUR 6,257 billion. Is it right, then, how they were thrown out of the window of EUR 6 billion, as much as about 60 Rafah warplanes, while only the banks benefited from this huge amount? We flew out the window of sixty Ruffalo, but without getting any answer from the government, from the Minister. Why, really, didn't we get an answer? Shouldn't the Greeks know? In addition, the budget is planned to increase to 50 billion in 2022 from 46.5 billion in 2021 - 18.7 billion of which will come from VAT - compared to 17.1 billion in 2021 and 15.3 billion in 2020. Obviously, part of their growth will come from GDP growth, but, in line with the various reductions that have been made, it is not a normal development unless prices have been increased for a longer period. Price increases may be bad for consumers, but they are good for the government, because at higher prices they receive more taxes. It is for this reason that we have proposed a reduction in VAT rates and excise duties, so that accuracy can be balanced and citizens' impoverished, without, of course, reducing public revenues. We are proposing solutions which do not harm the public at all. The unjust, of course, remains at about the same height, recalling that New Democracy was imposed as something temporary, which, as usual, became finally permanent. As far as expenditure is concerned, it will be reduced to 65.5 billion in 2022 from 70.8 billion in 2021, although they are increased compared to 62.9 billion in the medium term, which we should reasonably follow. Furthermore, costs for the pandemic fall to 3.3 billion cash in 2022 from 16.9 billion in 2021, which means that a substantial amount will be missing from the economy, although part of it will be replaced by the recovery fund's money. In particular, with regard to the pandemic affected programme, it will only be supported with EUR 61 million in 2022 from 477 million in 2021. Why, really? Are their problems over and pandemic over? Aren't seizures and auctions going to increase vertically? Why is there absolutely nothing for our primary sector, in addition to EUR 19 million for 2021 and 2022, from the reduction in feed VAT to 6% of 13%, when their costs, the cost of our farmers have doubled? However, we do not see any provision being made for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, at least with a refunder, which is not a financial cost, since the bank's liquidity is being absorbed in bonds by the State, as shown on page 38 of the budget, if I remember well. Health expenditure is evident that pandemic is used to hide the deforestation of the ESS - we all remember that it was literally dissolved by the troika and the memoranda - noting that the hospitals' costs will be 2.9 billion in 2022 from 2.6 billion in 2019, before the pandemic. This is essentially about adding just 300 million to the ESS, which is not enough, of course, because there are great shortages of staff and not just. Continuing, armament expenditure appears to be between 2.5 billion in 2021 and 3.3 billion in 2022, according to Table 313 on page 86. But, elsewhere in the budget, on page 70 and on the frozen markets, EUR 1.1 billion is mentioned. We have asked for clarification, it has to be clarified, but we have not received an answer. I guess we'll pick up next. In our view, however, particular attention should be paid to investments in the Greek defence industry for the defence of our country, for growth, for employment and for know-how. It's all very important. The Public Investment Programme, which is extremely important for growth, amounts to just 7.8 billion, below 8.35 billion in 2021 and with 6.5 billion from the co-financed projects, which are reduced compared to 2021 and 2020. We have, however, stressed many times that the Public Investment Programme should exceed 10 billion, as well as only available for investment, and not constantly covering holes, as we see it happening with all governments, if we want to have genuinely sustainable development from our own country, without borrowing. As we can see now, recovery from the Recovery Fund will be 600 million in 2021 from a provision of 1.6 billion in the medium term, while in 2022 there will be 3.2 billion, as in the medium term, in which case the 2021 difference will not be covered. We asked why it happened, even before we started work on the remaining 3.2 billion, without even answering our questions. As far as the ESRB is concerned, an important part of it will be allocated to social policy, as well as to the Recovery Fund, which is a good thing, but not to the need for the country's development through the change of its economic model. Furthermore, the privatisations accelerated in 2021, but without knowing the precise terms, such as the end of the DEDDIA, the end of the DPRK, the Egnatia, etc., that we have asked questions. Of course, all this leads to the debt, which, however, is growing constantly, since the Government in 2020 and 2021 spent on lending some twenty-nine ‘National’ loans. I remind you that Egnatia is about 6 billion. The government therefore spent in 2020 and 2021 on loans of about twenty-nine ‘Nationals’. From 2011 to 2021 it appears that 7.7 billion have been collected, while by the end of the stock of 11 billion, as we mentioned earlier, that is drops in the ocean. However, significant divestments are being promoted, such as ports, “LARCO” and “DEPA of Trading”, where in relation to their value entries, no one is honestly aware of whether to laugh or cry. For example, the ten major ports are registered at a value of EUR 50 million, when in the 2019 balance sheet - which we worked on just now, that is, we recently discussed - it was 120 million. Today, therefore, 50 million, while in the balance sheet we discussed two weeks ago 120 million. How is it possible to reduce their value by 70 million in two years, even if we take account of the balance sheet? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The port of Elefsina, one of the largest due to fuels, is registered at a value of 895,400 euros, while the port of Lavrio at 303.051 euros, with much less than an apartment in Kifisia, in the northern suburbs. On the contrary, ‘LARCO’, which in the 2019 balance sheet was registered at zero value, is assessed here with 60.3 million, while Egnatia with 7.2 billion from 6.1 billion in the balance sheet. The absolute irrationality, therefore, is not further extended because of time. It is also worrying that the general government’s outstanding liabilities from 1,324 billion in December 2019 to 1,799 billion in September 2021, in addition to the outstanding tax repayments from 296 million to 579 million during the same period. Continuingly, the general government's public debt will rise to 355 billion in 2022, from 350 billion in 2021, while GDP is estimated at 189% in the government, since it certainly provides for GDP growth. The interest rate was 18.1 billion in 2021, of which interest was 5.9 billion. The 1.4 billion, of course, of the swap we mentioned at the outset and must be answered. And according to what is stated on page 147, 29 billion loans are due to the European Central Bank, although in publications they exceed 32 billion. The question is, of course, whether the European Central Bank will continue to accept our bonds after the end of the PEPP special programme, and that is exactly what rating companies are waiting for to upgrade or not. Only the debts which end in 2022 are 13.7 billion, so with the same interest rates, Greece will need around 2022 billion euros. Of course, lending in the future will not be so easy and so cheap, since they cannot continue to be so negative in real interest rates. In particular, with more than 4% inflation in the European Union, real interest rates, which are nominally less than inflation, are now over -4%, which will certainly change when price rise is not regarded as a transitory one. Nobody borrows their money by paying interest at the same time. Furthermore, public guarantees, often considered as a secret debt, amount to 8.7 billion, but without including the guarantees of TEPIX and HERAKLIS, which the Minister did not specify to us. As far as unemployment is concerned, it is inconceivable that it should not be mentioned in conjunction with the employment rate, as is the case in all the favoured countries. In Greece it is only 51%, when in Germany it is 78.4%, as we will testify in the Minutes. Really, what do you anticipate of delaying pensions? With the charity of the EUR 250 shame these people will live? This is a perforated budget, which is not worthy of Greeks, in a rich country with many possibilities, such as our own, which is the victim of the mismanagement of its governments. We are reminded here that, since the first day of our entry into Parliament, we have called for the following three basic things, with the aim of recovering our economic independence, without which the national sovereignty is literally illusion. Firstly, the change of our economic model, away from the monoculture of tourism, based on our primary sector, processing, high technology and our defence industry. Secondly, the dual accounting system in the public sector, which, as we have heard with pleasure, will be implemented by Parliament since 2023 and thirdly, and more importantly, by a proper balance sheet of the state, including through a register of fixed assets, so that the pure position of the Greeks is depicted, to know not only what we owe but also what we have. Unfortunately, none of this has been initiated by the government, and of course we will vote against the budget, not for opposition reasons, but for everything that we have analysed, let alone...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u66	Finish it, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...when international risks, such as the rapid rise in energy prices, the threat of inflation, have not been taken into account, if the wage-price spiral starts, interest rate increases, the stopping of PEPP from the ECB, a global shock with the break-up of bubbles and so on. If the articles are valid, according to which Eurogroup has asked Greece to cut benefits immediately and to respect the debt, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, so reintroducing the Stability Pact, our country's future will be extremely difficult. It is already seen from the vertical rise of spreads, as we will also be tabling in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too. The rapporteur-General of Mera25 Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members, MPs, Ministers, are a budget that wants to deceive all of you who are attending this sitting. While your government is plundering, she wants you to applaud her. It's a budget of six lies. First lie: You have a job and your children. Second lie: Your small business is going well in the middle of a lockdown. Third lie: Your cost of life has not increased despite accuracy. Fourth lie: Your government increases taxation, but this will not reduce your income, don't worry. Fifth lie: the government reduces health expenditure, but don't worry. This will not affect your health. Sixth lie: Selling profitable public enterprises, reducing budget revenues, you are also magically gaining. They think as long as the middle of the Pecha list repeat these lies in the end you'll be convinced. "You have not gone Samo, you have not gone Samo," as the Prime Minister told the Dutch journalist, who had gone Samo. Brain washing until we say day and night. Let's see the lies one by one. First lie. Unemployment is falling. And listen: “We have reached the 2010 level. You and your children find work as they found before the Memorandum." Not to mention wages and rights. We are asking why, while on the basis of the government's figures, unemployment is falling, does it not increase employment? Answer us, how is this puzzle solved? Answer us why, based on the government's figures, there are three hundred thousand fewer unemployed and fewer unemployed than they are registered with the OAED? How's that magical number? Disappear? Don't be real unemployed? Those who are registered to the OAED do not exist in our society? Only in OAED are registered unemployed. Secondly, small and medium-sized enterprises are being strengthened. Look. Part of it's true. Some businesses are being strengthened. Let's go together and see who these are. One hundred and seventy-eight million euros in FRAPORT. What about her damage? Oh, no. For her foreshadowed gains. For the profits she thought she would have for 2020, two weeks before she asked for the public compensation. This is just for 2020. There's gonna be so much more for 2021. More than 1 billion in total in 'FRAPORT', 'AEGEAN'. ENERGEAN also fired the workers and closed the factory. The airport "Eleftherios Venizelos". The list of Pechas for the media of mass deception. Private highways. Twelve and then 11 more for Hercules, which aims to get us all out of our homes. And we're giving him 23 billion. For small businesses? If the "FRAPORT" gives the foreshadowed profits to small businesses, as you know very well, they have given suspensions of payments and repayable advances. While big will be compensated for 2022, for small budgets it has terrible gifts and profits. Remove the micro-enterprises’ guarantee programme, the non-refundable grant to small and micro-enterprises, the micro-enterprise loans programme, totalling 8 billion. Third lie: ‘Food prices do not increase. What you experience when you go to the supermarket is a virtual reality. The reality is that your cost of life has not increased, budget-based inflation is zero, 0.4%. The reality you experience doesn't exist. There is the reality that the government tells you." Fourth lie: "We will increase your taxes, but do not worry, your income will not be affected." Nine percent increase public revenue. Four and a half billion when they estimate growth of 4.5%. But how do the growth revenues double? There's got to be some big magic here. The recipe is simple. It's called raisins, indirect taxes. In other words, those who do not have high incomes. These indirect taxes leave them indifferent. For them, it's the tip they give to the restaurant. There's nothing ahead of their total income. For low incomes, however, it is the difference between having money to pay their current, rent, food for their children. Lie fifth: "We do everything for public health. We do not reduce costs.’ In the state budget for the Ministry of Health expenditure is reduced by over half a billion. The government says that the 2022 health budget is higher. We have a reduction in state funding in hospitals of 139 million euros, in Greece, which currently has a hundred and thirty-nine life losses. We don't know where the losses will be. The government hasn't built an infrastructural for oxygen. There's not enough oxygen, not only ICU, but oxygen in ICUs, oxygen in people who are intubated, oxygen in people who are in a mask. There is no oxygen infrastructure in hospitals in the middle of a coronary, with the networks insufficient. We are waiting for February in the fifth wave and we are reducing by EUR 139 million the spending on hospitals and by EUR 140 million the funding for primary health care. Expenditure on primary health was 268 million in 2021. The budget we are discussing is 138 million. It's 50% reduction, like there's no pandemic, like people don't die. We have a reduction in transfers to the EEA by 69 million, while the government is proud of an increase in the pharmaceutical cost of EUR 100 million, when of these 80 million are gifts to the pharmaceutical industry as a return through the clawback mechanism. Sixth lie: Investments are coming. In a country that since 2010 has been in constant disinvestment, the government wants to convince us that investment is coming. How are they coming? Is capital produced? Is the strength of our businesses, small and medium-sized, even large? Oh, no. Investments come by selling state monopolies, selling public land to other public structures in other countries. They're not even privatizations. It's denationalization. The Greek State must belong and it does not matter where they belong. They now bring the port of Igoumenitsa along with the whole coastline of Thesprotia. They'll sell it to a private person, and that's an investment. And a lot more like that. But as much as they repeat the media on the list, those six lies can't pass because the reality that all of you experience, that all of us experience doesn't fit. He's there every day. But all this is based on a debt that is not sustainable. There is a lie in which these budgets live, these governments live. The lie is we didn't go bankrupt in 2010. The truth is that Greece went bankrupt in 2010. We are simply told that being bankrupt we are not bankrupt, because we can get more loans and that it is no problem that we have now come to be the country with the greatest debt in proportion to world GDP. Every loan we've received had exchanges. Every loan we have received and continue to receive has had terms and conditions, such as the complete deregulation of labour, the sale of public property, the complete destruction of all environmental protection, the complete deregulation of all protection of our cultural heritage, the privatisation of basic goods, such as water and electricity, the merchandise of health, education and welfare, the conversion of health, education and welfare from right to privilege for a few and the creation of the economy of bankruptcy, where we make Hercules and give 23 billion to take our homes, homes of all people. And that's growth! Also, the fact that you come out of your homes, that you lose your right to your home is growth. That's what the government tells us. It's the new bankruptcy economy. The fact that every little bit and a little bit calls to all of us, all of us homes, and to my home, the various liquidation companies are growth. All of these are those that lead us to a country that has no prospect and that will drive out to its last child abroad day by day. As genuine serviles of this debt-purpose, we pay for our tenth, as well as our percentage. It was 3.5% of GDP so far, and now we are told that it will go to 2.2% by 2060, mid-weighted by 5 billion a year. In the medium term, the government told us that in '24 it would reach 3.7. There is no management of this system. The only thing that exists is the break and the reality is that everyone knows it in this Chamber. Mera25 presents and gives the Minutes our draft law on break-up and the suggestions that will take us out of the deadlock. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The institutional areas proposed by Mera25 are as follows: Recovering national sovereignty over public revenue and tax software. What you have been concealed is that neither public revenue controls the state - the institutions - nor the software, which we all submit the tax declaration and which anyone who controls it knows everything about each of us. So this software doesn't belong to the public either. They've all gone to the independent, otherwise, Public Income Authority, controlled by the lenders. Mera25 will abolish this principle. This is our proposal and we invite everyone to support it. We will transfer the tax software and the necessary information systems to a new General Secretariat of Information Systems and Tax Software with public control. We propose the creation of an autonomous General Secretariat for Public Revenue, which will be autonomous, but not controlled by creditors and the head of which will be chosen by a social committee for the selection of senior personnel, which will be composed of one-third of all parties' MPs, one-third of whom will be judges and one-three-thirds deposited professional accountants, so as not to be controlled by any party, of any ideology and of course not by the lenders. The other institutional aspect that we are proposing is the recovery of national sovereignty over public property, and yes, over banks, but also the abolition of the supranationality, which has been made by SYRIZA, and that is where all the public property has been placed to be sold or exploited, as they say. We also propose his replacement by ATHENA, the National Development Company of Public Property and Financial Transactions, where the National Banking Participation Company is located, i.e. the banks, which will be in public control. Thus, the Financial Stability Fund and the new Greek Development Bank that will emerge after the merger of HIDE with the existing Development Bank will have a slight difference, that it will not be possible for the HIDE to sell public assets. The public property currently controlled by the GOI to divest it will be used without being sold as a pledge to create private and public investment flows and from it will exclude public goods that will not even be used as a guarantee. In addition, we propose a new digital system for the financial transactions of private individuals - public "Public". This is perhaps the most central aspect of the Mera25 proposals, by which the public and private debts can be interchangeable. So it will actually be possible to create a kind of bond that the citizens will take in their hands and exchange it, trade with other private individuals, who will thus delete their own debt towards the public. It is a system which partially backs monetary policy in the country. It is a system that gives levels of freedom to fiscal policy in the country, it is a system of breath for that country right now. And I come to the red loans. We propose the establishment of a National Private Debt Management Company, a Board of Banks and a Loan Protection Company called "PESSEAS". Quite simply, we are proposing to abolish the confiscation procedure. No first-residential seizures and the acquisition of all the red loans that are in the funds at the same price as the funds, in this funny 3% and 4% of their value, while at the same time abolishing the guarantees of 23 billion public towards these funds. The company PESSEAS will carry red loans and titles and will have a return on the banks of securities and public guarantees from the “PESCEOS” for their capital adequacy, permanent protection of main residence and small and medium-sized enterprises, with a monthly payment of no more than 1/3 of net income and the amount of which will be determined by the municipal authorities. These people will keep the rest of their ownership until the start of the normal repayment of their loans, after the haircuts agreed with the "PESH". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We also propose the setting-up of local committees in cooperation with the PESESSEAS, in which all concerned will be involved, on the basis of cases of strategic malpractices. They are areas which do not have budgetary costs, have a net benefit, because they cut the gifts into the oligarchy, the rich states and restore the independence of monetary union in part, the budget in many policies in that country, the control of banks, the control of public property, and they stop this social trick of staying without a house in Lockdown and outside of them. MARA25 is not only voting against this budget, but it is tabling its own framework for the way out from these deadlocks. Merra25 feels the historic debt to act and proposes a break to all the citizens who listen to us and to all the MPs who are here and see their party leaderships day after day, not dare to make this break. We call on you to support the legislative proposal of Mera25. We are voting against this budget and we are calling for all the citizens who are listening to us, because without the necessary break our future is set. And our future is the exit of every new one, one after another, from this country, one country that is drowned in. We won't allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u70	Please close the speaker's record system. Until the Step has been taken to proceed with the special rapporteurs, I would like to make a statement to this House. The President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group and its party MPs tabled a legislative proposal on 14-12-2021: 'Proposal for a law on institutional and fiscal matters'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We shall now proceed to the special rapporteurs. I call the special rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Karaoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the time has come after the many lies we have heard before, to see what the reality is. So, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that the future of either you plan or you do. So the choices we have in life and politics are two: whether we act on the basis of how we improve our everyday lives, leaving a distinctly positive mark on our individual and collective path, whether we miss the opportunity, surrendering to the forces of inaction, experiencing fatalisticly the consequences of our own refusal to intervene dynamically and decisively where we could. Obviously, what applies to life, as I have said before, is reflected in politics. I would point out this because I think it is time for our country to move forward, that is to say, to stop understanding itself in 1974 and finally to do everything it can, everything it has not dared to date, not because it could not, but above all because some people did not want to see it evolve. They didn't let her do what it could do, because they were trapped in obsessed and ideologies, which, besides being outdated and belonging to the fantasy sphere, did not respond to reality, perhaps because they deliberately put the cubit low. So the moment has come when the Greek economy must move safely from its non-market sectors to the outward sectors. It must place an emphasis on exports, encourage direct investment, support innovation. The design of the New Democracy Government and Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis is in this context, since our policies far exceed the life expectancy of an evaluation by the European institutions, as well as the horizon of a government service. We want to leave a positive print in the country, helping our compatriots collectively answer two fundamental questions. First, what kind of country do we want? Secondly, what productive model do we want for the country? Since the two questions I have just raised are clearly answered, then the procedure for making any necessary decisions will be simplified. Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that, in order not to be in a difficult position again in the immediate future, we must turn to a productive model that is different from what we had when we entered the crisis. The government is well aware of this, so we are acting methodically and targeted at the present day, limiting, to the extent possible, the consequences of the pandemic. Our concern is to offer the Greek vision for tomorrow. Time and strength are needed, but we can overcome the difficulties if we are to capitalise on the positive developments in recent months at the level of the economy. We owe it to ourselves, but above all to the next generations. The best example, ladies and gentlemen, is the 2022 budget. It shows that numbers always tell the truth and confirm that the success or failure of policies implemented depend solely on the prior design. As an economist, I know that the figures are true, but at the same time, it is true that they are also a little tiresome for those who listen to us. So I will only try to refer to the absolutely necessary numbers, offering our fellow citizens the outline of the great picture. Days ago, EUROSTAT aggregated Greece as a champion of Europe in terms of growth in the third quarter of 2021 to 13.4%, compared with 11.4% of the second and 3.9% of the Eurozone average. At the same time, the US bank Goldman Sachs predicted that Greece would push the growth cart of Europe over the next two years, since for the first time after about fifteen years Greek GDP would run faster than the respective eurozone, operating as a growth promoter and not as a barium or damaged gear of a well-manned machine. Regardless of the fact that the third quarter of 2020 is a low comparison because of the pandemic, anyone who does not understand or does not want to admit that Greece's development first will continue for the next two to four, at least, years I think it will be blind. We certainly did not happen from one day to the other in Germany, a country that has the strongest and largest economy in Europe. However, it is important that we return first of all from all the Member States of the European Union to the levels of pandemic. According to estimates, in the fourth quarter of the year, the total annual GDP losses of 2020 are expected to be recovered, with the level of real GDP at the end of 2022 exceeding the corresponding level of 2019 by at least 1,7 %. We are doing this wisely, with the ambition and boldness of a series of reforms that introduce Greece as a modern and effective regional economy. That's how the path of development is right in front of us. We will not be transformed into a steam engine in Europe, but we are now reflecting credibility, as the German Minister for Finance admits, Mr Christian Lindner. And all this with fewer taxes on households and businesses, with more investment, with more and better jobs. Improving the economic climate thanks to business-friendly policy, tax electoral, the continuation of reforms, less bureaucracy, more rapid administration of justice and the leverage of important investment funds testify to our national economy recovering day after day. In short, we are at the point where we are going through the recovery phase. For the years 2021 and 2022, the 2022 budget provides for cumulative growth of 11.7%. More specifically, the growth rate for 2021 is significantly upwards, since from 3.6% foreseen in the medium-term Financial Stability Framework 2022-2025 and 6.1% in the preliminary draft budget is projected to 6.9% for this year and 4.5% for the following year, estimates that most international financial houses are particularly conservative and moderate, with a guide to private consumption, investment and exports. Consider that we are talking about one year in the first half of which there were still significant restrictive measures in place in the field of economic activity. A characteristic and structural element of economic growth, which is already under way, is the significant reduction in unemployment, with its declining to 1.7%, in order to close from 15.9%, which is expected to close this year to 14.2% in 2022. The revival of the labour market, ladies and gentlemen, has been and still is our priority and is largely due to the unprecedented financial support for households and businesses of around 43 billion euros. We were told that no one would be left alone during the pandemic, and we did it because our political speech is a contract. For example, I quote data from the Monthly Labour Force Survey, which since May 2021 recorded successive labour growths on an annual basis for the first time since April 2019 plus 2.4% on average, with the number of financially active individuals being at the highest level since September 2020. With regard to the remaining indicators, private consumption will increase this year by 3.3% and by 3.3% in 2022, investment will increase by 11.7% in 2021 and take off by 2022 by 21.9% and exports will increase this year by 14.1% and the year 2022, by 11.1%. The main pension costs are also increased from EUR 29,477 billion to EUR 29,793 billion, before the increases made this year to pensioners with more than thirty years of insurance. The cost of family allowances from EUR 1,87 billion to EUR 1,102 billion is also increasing, resulting from the broadening of the income criteria, in conjunction with the reduction of the incomes shown in this year's tax returns. Equally important is fiscal consolidation, with a reduction in the deficit of 5.6 percentage points next year, in 2022, or around 10 billion euros. There is a deficit of 7.416 billion in the general government balance, which accounts for about 4% of GDP, against a deficit estimate of 17.73 billion in 2021 or 9.6%, which means that the Greek economy is slowly beginning to breathe more freely. Naturally, a key factor in boosting economic activity in 2022 is the Recovery and Stability Fund. As I mentioned in the relevant debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, this is a major catalyst of progress and prosperity, which will give our national economy an additional 2.9 percentage points of GDP, contributing to the reduction of the long-term investment gap there. We are talking about the "embol" upgrading of the Greek economy. We are talking about the'medicine' which will form a high rate of growth in the medium term, which will be supported by a brave increase in investment by 21.9%. We are talking about money that will have multiplier benefits in the real economy from 2022 to 2026. Let us not hide, ladies and gentlemen, behind our finger. It does not mean growth without investment. This is the only way to create jobs and income. To sum up, the 2022 budget is the budget of consistency and effectiveness. It is a budget of realistic predictions and objectives. It is a regeneration budget, which takes into account the pandemic's data, but also holds ammunition in the economic arsenal. It is a relaunching budget, which offers a strong protection net around our compatriots, leading to a rekindling of the labour market. Above all, however, it marks a shift towards an economic model more extremist, competitive and green, the model we really need. At the same time, it makes our state more effective and fairer to share the wealth produced. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is based on the experience of implementing policies in practice, policies that have been justified for their correctness and effectiveness, which have been specific to the specificities of the Greek economy. The conclusion is that the Greek economy withstands vigorously, recovers rapidly and resists forcefully. The domino that is consequent will draw all the qualitative indicators to the best and we will see that month after month, year after year our estimates will be disguised for the better. The developments under way are not merely encouraging. They provide valuable financial space to the state to continue to be actively next to those who are tested, ensuring the necessary financial balance. The credit from Eurogroup, the full return of the country to international markets, the historically low borrowing costs, the early repayment of the International Monetary Fund, which will take place at the beginning of 2022, the reduction of unemployment, the retention of the packages, the increase of industrial production, the significant progress in reducing red loans and the completion of the national financing scheme from the Recovery Fund are the materials of the Greek welfare recipe. The policies I have described help to compensate for the risks of global economic slowdown. In a low-speed world, Greece presses gas, its engines turn up, ensuring the impetus given to be safe and prudent. In conclusion, I would like to address the Vice-Presidents, especially his colleagues. The 'no' to everything, ladies and gentlemen, is not an ideology, it is a political practice of irrationalism. Refusal to everything is denial to reason, is a denial to the progress of the Greeks and to the solidarity that the sensitive social groups need, which you allegedly support. It is a sterile refusal to form a social alliance, which today is more necessary than ever to address the increased challenges of the time. It should be common to deal with inequalities, support for vulnerable social groups, assistance to our most needy compatriots. Unfortunately, once again you propose your party micropolitical interest above the collective good. You're judging about your steam. And because a lot of discussion takes place when the polling time comes, at the end of the four-year period, you will get the most sound answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u72	And we thank Mr Karaoglu. The special rapporteur for SYRIZA, Alexandros Haritsis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall of course speak on economic issues. But I cannot start by commenting on the fact that today in our country a hundred and thirty fellow people have lost their lives from the pandemic. I think it is incomprehensible to have a debate which is becoming a gap in the midst of this health tragedy. The comment I wish to make, by addressing the National Representation, is that we must not get used to and regularize all this tragedy that our country is currently experiencing, which is currently being experienced by Greece. I'll be on public health sooner. I'm going to start with something that got to me. Yesterday the New York Times had two very interesting articles on their pages for the economy. The first was how the combination of pandemic and accuracy swept through governments trying to manage these crises in terms of political and social authoritarianism, and the second was how many governments' response to European inflation was to increase wages. These are the issues that we are discussing at the moment when the whole world is talking about, how the dual crisis of pandemic and accuracy is radically changing the world in which we live and demand intensely new policies that shield our societies today and enable them to provide a positive way out for the social majority next day. I also read these days the report on the global inequality of wealth published, if I am not mistaken, by the end of last week, by the World Inequality Lab, which includes some of the most important economists internationally. So there they analyse how 50% of the world's population owns only 2% of world wealth, 10% owns 75% and a maximum of 1% owns 38% of world wealth. The income gap between a maximum of 10% and a minimum of 50% of the population in the same countries has almost doubled over the last two decades. World inequalities, the authors of the report say, are compared to the peak period of Western imperialism at the beginning of the twentieth century. Greece specifically states that the minimum of 50% of the population owns a minus 2% of the country's wealth. What does minus 2%? It means that half the country's population has on average more debt than property than wealth, that is, it owes more than it owns. Greece is on the lowest scale in Europe in terms of this indicator. The maximum of 10% on the other side has a share of just over 50% of the wealth. I also saw these days the EIC's survey on the inequalities of 2021: 'Recent experiences and developments on income inequality in Greece'. It says, therefore, that the indicators of inequality in Greece are currently at the level of Eastern European countries, inequality which, as it says, has deteriorated in pandemic, which will worsen even further from the crisis of asymmetric shocks, as the figures of ELSTAT show, the most vulnerable households and small and medium-sized enterprises. So the question arises, since we are discussing the budget here, and the budget is, in fact, the economic plan for next year, but it also shows the prospects for the next few years. So the 2022 budget takes all this into account? Is he involved in these extremely worrying international and domestic developments? My answer is clear: in no case. It is a text written on wrong considerations, which is far from the problems of society, which does not respond to the major crises that we are threatened by, a budget outside the place and time from which the two main issues of our time are missing: pandemic and accuracy. Because the budget of 2022 is unfortunately facing pandemic as a past, and this is not a matter of my own, if you would like, interpretation, it is a matter of work submitted by the Deputy Minister of Finance who says that the budget was designed - I read a word for word, not to be considered as trying to misinterpret it - on the assumption that pandemic as an economic variable will gradually leave from the beginning of 2022. You've fallen out so many times and we've paid so many times as a country so expensive your wrong estimates. Don't start the conversation about the famous last mile. You should at least be more eminent in your assessments and have learned from your mistakes. Unfortunately, all the indications we are talking about today, December 2021, show that pandemic as an economic variable has not disappeared and will not disappear in early 2022. Unfortunately, here, we see that things are getting worse too, let alone the consequences on the economy. So what does the government do? It is tabling a budget that does not provide for either a euro to support the affected economy or a euro for the unemployed, nor a euro for the workers or a euro for the firms at risk of hammering. And not only is it tabling a budget with reduced regular expenditure on the public health system - and our general rapporteur said it in detail earlier - in 2022, after all this pandemic experience and while internationally the debate is just in the opposite direction, about how there will be an upgrade, about how there will be an interconnection of the health system with welfare policies, about the central role that the public health system has in the resilience of our societies in these conditions of crisis. But all this, unfortunately, seems not to be affecting the current government. Since pandemic as an economic variable will go away, the answer is 'business as usal'. We're continuing on what we know, what we know, the old ones. And after he managed to eliminate the pandemic budget, the government actually disappears. There is nothing on the budget pages about the issue that at the moment every citizen, every household, every business. There is not one measure to deal with accuracy. And so, gentlemen of the government, accuracy will not disappear because you say so. The accuracy at the moment is a very great threat to the income of households, to the sustainability of businesses, to the development of the country, to social cohesion itself in our country. ELSTAT's official figures, the explosive increase in electricity, the evacuation of prices in the supermarket shelves, the anxiety expressed by the representatives of producers, the energy-intensive industry, trade, small and medium-sized contractors, all underline the obvious: we are in front of a long-term phenomenon that can act as a catalyst if the necessary measures are not taken. Of course, the role of policy comes here, because the policy is precisely at such times as to intervene and intervene decisively with measures to support workers' incomes, with decisive market regulation, with targeted reductions in tax obligations, with measures to support businesses so that they do not pass on costs to consumers and at the same time do not collapse from increases in raw materials and transport costs. Unfortunately, none of this is in the 2022 budget. Unfortunately, the government seems to be moving in the sphere of virtual reality. And that, of course, is not a question, I would say, of the perceptive capacity of the rulers. It's a deep political matter. It is a political choice that is happening today, because the government is choosing to present a virtual reality, because it believes in this way that it can continue its plan for the reproduction and deepening - even worse - of a distorted, anti-social and counterproductive development model. Look at the example of the Recovery Fund, a truly historic opportunity for the country to urgently deal with the consequences of the pandemic, but also to develop a development policy in the years to come for the definitive exit of this obsolete model that leads us to crisis. The government that does not stop admiring itself for its management competence has already been able to make it a mess in the planning and launching of this very important programme. We have said this on several occasions, and we have discussed it in a timely manner with the Minister responsible a few days ago. Estimates of EUR 2.6 billion have fallen by at least 2 billion, except for the first year of implementation and to see how implementation will continue in the next period. But it is not just a quantitative issue here, it is also a qualitative issue. And because I don't have time now, I'll use only one example. Everyone knows that one of the main problems of the country is the exclusion of the large majority of small and medium-sized enterprises from banking lending. The Recovery Fund therefore offers opportunities for financing this category of enterprises. In Greece, however, only 500 million out of 12.8 billion will go through the Development Bank, which is the most public tool to support this part of society and the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I wonder how we expect a change in the production model, when we re borrow - because a new loan is this part of the recovery fund - to be refinanced, what the Bank of Greece defines as 5% of Greek enterprises, those who happen to be both the big and the powerful. So the government wants to maintain a distorted productive model. We know that model well, we've lived it, we've experienced it. It was shaped before the 2008 crisis, around the internalisation, the support of some traditional sectors, mainly tourism, shipping and construction, and the illusion that large projects and consumption, together with massive privatisations, ensure the continuous flow of international resources into the domestic economy. We know where this model led us, our country paid too much. This model, unfortunately, is defending the Mitsotakis Government today. So how do we expect to have different results when using the same policies? All these choices by the government, the deterioration of the position of labour forces in the productive fabric, the exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises from financial programmes, the self-regulation of the market as a medicine to deal with accuracy come from the same obsolete obsession with neoliberal beliefs. Instead of a budget corresponding to the crises we face today, we have the perpetuation of the ideas of the New Democracy, which leads to successive crises and exacerbates social inequality. And because I hear about recovery, development, etc. There will be a nominal recovery on the part of the Government, obviously after the dissolution and precipitation of 2020. The question, however, is what form and content will be involved in this recovery and, above all, who will be concerned. The recovery of the Mitsotakis government is a K.F.A few and powerful indeed will move forward, but many will stay behind or even worse move down. That is why the budget before us is a budget of uncertainty, insecurity and inequality. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying this: in the 2022 budget two opposite strategic plans are being conflicted for Greek society, the government's plan, which is reactive redress. That is why he is trying to degrade the major crises that threaten us. Because he knows that pandemic and accuracy require radical deep areas, which he does not have the political will to implement. He doesn't want any of this. He believes in self-regulation, that is, essentially deregulation. It insists on declining public space, with what this implies from public enterprises to the natural environment. He always expects that invisible hand of the market that will save it. SYRIZA will not let the country return to the era of poverty and insecurity. We want Greece to be synchronised with progressive international phasing-out over the reduction of inequalities, fair and sustainable growth, productive transformation. This, however, presupposes a policy of cuts and ruptures, a policy of substantial state intervention to support the real economy, the development of public tools in strategic areas such as the banking system, such as energy, with the essential support of the social state and the public health system to deal with inequalities, but also as a factor for the country's development prospects, with the decisive strengthening of public investment, which can move upwards to the whole of our country's productive base, with a policy that ultimately exploits every opportunity offered by our era for a new start in the economy and politics, for a society of equality and justice, for a democracy in the service of the many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u74	Mr Georgios Arvanitidis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is talking about a total return to normality with the budget of 2022. However, the question for us and for the Greek society is in what normality we are returning and which areas of the country is concerned with. Unfortunately, this budget does not have the regional dimension that it should have. The reduction of taxation favours large and strong ones in particular. In other words, the new regularity of this budget for 2022 is an expansion of all kinds of inequalities and the absence of a clear productive model. At the same time, the government seems to take two very important factors which will have a decisive impact on the course of the budget, beyond the pandemic. And these are the energy crisis and inflation, which now touches 5%. In particular, energy costs are hitting and kneeling each household and each undertaking, affecting every development perspective and reflecting the competitiveness of the Greek companies. We had warned in advance since September that the energy crisis has been under way and we have not yet seen its peak. It was when the Prime Minister said that the increases that consumers will feel would be virtually zero. Really, is the Prime Minister able to repeat this statement? Is it able to tell consumers that they will see zero increases in electricity bills? Any self-criticism, any apologies? And we all know how important a parameter for each budget, domestic or state, is energy costs. Energy developments, however, have caught the New Democracy Government unprepared and are now unfortunately having to run behind the facts. But with what energy security guarantee? With what energy mixture, when we warned you that depending on the country from imported gas is dangerous? With what energy transition plan, which will concern the many, has this energy crisis found us? The government is constantly proclaiming larger amounts of energy subsidies, in a process which unfortunately reminds us of a bottomless barrel. And this subsidy, in essence, concerns the premium for imported gas. That is how we reached EUR 150 million in September, EUR 400 million in October, EUR 620 for four months, which certainly does not cover all winter, which arrives in our country until March. And we will reach these rates to speak for sure about the sums that are likely to touch 2 billion. And be careful: It is a subsidy granted to companies providers and consumers to permanently reduce energy costs. The consumers according to ELSTAT are particularly burdened by the large increases in natural gas, which has already increased by 132%, in heating oil which has increased by about 46%, in fuels which have increased by 22.3%, to electricity which has, unfortunately, increased by 18.9%. You will tell us that the government tells us: 'But international turbulence has brought energy accuracy'. But he forgets that Greece has been stable, for many months now, in the most expensive countries in Europe at the wholesale price of electricity. Break one record after another. This means that the Greek market has oligopolistic distortions, which make certain products and services extremely expensive and stimulate the income of the low and vulnerable social strata. At the same time, however, the government's vision in the energy sector is limited to the sale of public property, the suppression of key energy policy tools and the normalisation of private interests. Instead of putting rules on the market, he unfortunately arranges market players. At a time of energy transition where many European countries are strengthening public control over energy infrastructure, the New Democracy Government chooses exactly the opposite. For the Government, the aid of the Greek economy is the assignment of a natural monopoly with a fixed revenue and an energy policy tool of 100% to a private investor who, however, participates in the shape and the Italian State and will now enjoy the performances of the infrastructure PPA, which are among the highest in Europe. And from a close perspective, inflation as a cherry in the cake of dishwasher, which climbed up to 3.4% in October, to 4.8% in November and 5% in the past, thus singing even more about the real income of the citizens. If inflation closes to 5%, then this means not only that it will be exhausted or even zero in advance of 2% of the increase in the minimum wage announced by the government in advance, but that it will have zeroed and any other increase is supposed to be made within 2022. This means that despite the recovery of 2021 there is a serious risk that growing inflation will now make Greek households definitively in per capita income. A common denominator and permanent perpetrator of the government is both for the energy crisis and for inflation that these are transient phenomena. However, its assurances of transient inflation are not convinced at this level, as is its forecasts of transientity of energy accuracy. It does not even convince itself of its ability to anticipate international developments and, of course, its forecasts within this draft budget that we are discussing, with a clear example, the prediction of tax revenues which remains our question unanswered in 2021 with an increase in GDP of 6.9 to increase tax revenues of 4.7 and 2022 with an increase of 4.5 to increase tax revenues of 7.5%. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, according to the latest available comparative data from the European Commission, had the third highest consumption tax in Europe and the fourth highest indirect taxation in the twenty-seven countries of the European Union. The Government of New Democracy has drawn up three budgets that disproportionately take out indirect taxation on small and medium-sized enterprises and more vulnerable households. Especially with the 2022 budget, tax increases will come by 60% again, unfortunately, from indirect taxes. Perseverance and persistence of indirect taxation are now the permanent feature of all budgets submitted by your Government, which, of course, are followed literally by the previous government. This relationship between direct taxes and indirect taxes is deeply conservative because it burdens the many and the weak. This is a conscious choice of your Government, which does not give breath to low incomes, gives no prospect of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, does not support the weak, but broadens the inequalities and the gap of incomes with a certain impact on the country's social cohesion. When, in fact, the government shows too late a reflection on the accuracy wave that existed and gets features of a tsunami of increases with the pricelists, unfortunately, changing every week on the shelves of shops, when citizens already see their incomes shrinking, and the government is trying to reassure social reactions about the reassurances with assurances that it is a temporary simple phenomenon, there is not much room for optimism at that time. And your announcements of the single help of 250 euros to the low pensioners mainly under 500 euros a month are ashes in the eyes and affliction. This is because it concerns the low pensioners that your Government with interpretative terminology of the decision of the Council of State has made sure to exclude from the retrospective gifts and ancillarys of the eleventh month 2015-2016. And I would like to make it clear that we do not say that the sums which, even if little, can alleviate those in need, are not given, but that we claim to be of a more lasting nature. Of course we must support low-pensions and sanitary workers, but this support must be permanent and must be in a substantial form. Unfortunately, however, the Government does not want to hear a word about more permanent support measures, it does not want to hear a word about what we, the Change Movement, have long been proposing, such as reducing VAT on basic foodstuffs, reducing excise duties, and strengthening the Competition Committee to bring about a scourge and a cartel. In these circumstances, the government is still indifferent to the extremely stifling economic environment that is formed in the Greek market on its own responsibility, a market which does not expand, which does not open, but shrinks, minimizes and is unfortunately becoming for a few, an economy which is anchored and many businesses will be faced with the entrepreneurial range within 2022, especially the new ones who feel shredded by the allocations of repayable advances and the highly controversial criteria. Coronaches accumulate with the Government to only give suspensions and extensions, while the exclusion of many small and medium-sized enterprises from the recovery fund's financing undermines from the outset the overall development perspective and still seeks the wonderful growth springs you promised. And it can be that the Minister of Finance's announcement of the issue of Greek state green bond in 2022 is a positive move, if properly planned, but what is needed is the efficiency and added value that will be left at the end of the country. So, judging by the management of the pandemic period and the measurable results you have achieved, there is still not much room for optimism. I would remind you of the extremely worrying element that demonstrates the inefficiency of your government's economic policy, the fact that, although your government has made one of the world's largest budget interventions and has made more than EUR 30 billion against the effects of the pandemic, GDP for 2022 will, according to the forecast, appear to be increasing by 3.5 billion compared to 2019. We have had the third deepest recession in Europe, in the European Union, in 2020 and only on the nineteenth in recovery in 2021, according to the most recent comparative data from the European Commission. The trade balance and the balance of goods only give cause for concern. In short, your government has spent most of the money and, unfortunately, has achieved the least. It is clear that something is wrong with your economic recipe, which you are insisting, unfortunately. We therefore call on the government to revise its policy and to stop politicising intangible, conservative and fragmentary. Your Government must also take initiatives to create a common framework in the European Union, which will exclude return to strict austerity measures in the next period. So we do not share the parallels of the government, we doubt the success of the forecasts of this draft budget for 2022, we disagree with philosophy, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u76	I thank Mr Arvanitides for being very precise in time. The special rapporteur from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Does the 2022 budget guarantee for the majority of the people a decent people income by reducing working time, guaranteeing substantial wage and pension increases, since only in November was inflation 4.8%? Does it guarantee the abolition of all flexible forms of employment and ensure permanent work for all, measures and expenditure to protect the health, life and health of the people with public free and high level health services, compulsory social security with a reduction up to and including the abolition of employee contributions? Is it guaranteed free of charge only public welfare? Do you provide funds for public and free education at all levels, as well as for the development of free time and people's access to culture, sport with all the necessary infrastructures or are you privatising them further? Do you support self-employed people with tax-free treatment at EUR 12 000, with bank and public debt being deleted, but also with lower guaranteed prices on agricultural products, so that farmers are not the victims of the extortion of the traders? Do you guarantee that through the programme of public projects in the budget you will arrange for a comprehensive plan of anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism protection for modern school rooms and not cigarette containers? Are you guaranteeing the use of our domestic energy resources by ensuring cheap energy for everyone, for travel, but also for producing sufficient, cheap and quality food? Promote budget-reduction measures for weapons systems serving the dangerous projects of NATO, the United States, the European Union and not the country's defence? None of this is guaranteed by the budget. Of course, neither did previous SYRIZA and PASOK governments and allies, because the interests of pluralism serve you. Such philosophical measures ensure and guarantee only the socialist way of production, a qualitatively superior system, because they are of interest to man and his needs and not to the profit of capitalists. In the budget, therefore, its classic, unfair and inhumane orientation is reflected. There can therefore be no social fair budget in capitalism. They testify to the figures, which serve capitalist restructuring to be more competitive, breaking wages, pensions, workers' rights. You celebrate and selectively promote the increase of 13.7% in GDP in the third quarter as a presumption of growth. Development for the people? Not just business groups, of course. These needs are met, for them are the billions of the budget. Tax exemptions too large for them by only paying 5.4% of taxes. For the people you have new anti-government measures, tax on even the poor retired, energy poverty and precision, breaking vital needs, such as health, to shield capitalist profitability. Although you could and could live much better for the people, based on the possibilities that exist today, your system dissuades what it produces with its work, its wealth, that is, in order to taste and ignite the majestics of capital. They testify to the numbers for essential needs such as health. Every day, about 100 people die from COVID and today, hundred and thirty, while you could already have additional IFs, serve hospitals with health care and strengthen them with all specialties. Same in health centers. But you choose to shrink, to get private health business people to get rich. This is why the state funding of public hospitals and primary health for 2022 is reduced by EUR 279 million, leading to their further dissolution and to the strengthening of business activity. Reduced and expenditure on the various privileges, which strengthen the prosperous policy of poverty, while poverty and tolerance are on the verge. You therefore guarantee that time-consuming cuts in state funding for health, with reduced health workers, a lack of infrastructure, a lack of medical equipment, a shrinking or even the abolition of hospital beds, hospital departments. In other words, the subordinated public health units are still unable to respond to people's needs. This is your new ESS. However, the reduced amounts have been established by all urban governments in the direction of greater discharge of public health expenditure, increased reciprocity in the provision of health work, increased direct or indirect payments by EEAS, greater adaptation of public health units to the rules on entrepreneurship and trade in the work provided. And in education, however, the 4 million-dollar line goes in hug with the capitalist restructurings. Instead of expanded cultural support, so that the modern student can get to know and understand the leapy human evolution and progress, you are trying to turn him closely into an executive multi-tool, giving knowledge with the dropping, branded and priced or distorted and falsified. Over the last two years, thirteen thousand teachers have been retired. But nothing in the state budget for the recruitment of permanent teachers. At the same time, we entered the fourth month since the beginning of the school year and thousands of gaps remain. Thousands of divisions have been merged before, with the government provoking an attempt to rationalise education and needs. There are children with serious medical conditions who don't have a school nurse. Thousands of children with disabilities who have been approved for parallel support and remain virtually helpless in a general school that fails to meet their complex needs. Integration units closed. Educational gaps in secondary level. Special schools with staff shortages. But also for so-called green growth, it seems your mockery and hypocrisy, when for forest ecosystems you give below 0,1 per cent of GDP. Like crustaceans and farmers - you advertise them for crabs! - when production costs are high and producer prices at tartars. No replacements to what you grabbed them with the memoirs. And the consequences of COVID heavy. The same evidence is a witness. To deal with the effects of COVID on agricultural production was only given about 1% of the total package of 2021 and zero - zero - I repeat - for 2022! [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] As regards the reductions in the excise duty on oil, there are only 50 million for farmers of cooperatives or new entrants. Before 2017 it was over 150 million. You're very behind their needs. But, at the same time, shipowners, industrialists, big-speakers, airlines and other 'harks' enjoy tax reliefs and discounts on the excise taxes of various fuels over 300 million euros for 2022. For the record, it should be recalled that the low rate of excise duty on agricultural oil was abolished in the third memorandum that you have all voted together, SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK. As for the small-professionals, their pocket is squeezing. GATT report shows that 55% of its members have dropped the turnover of the previous semester. 42% have cash available for one month, 21% has no liquidity at all and 36.7% of these businesses see a bouquet for the next period. In fact, about 20% of micro-enterprises owe tax, suppliers, energy bills and so on. So debts keep good. They're swelling. They are the consequences of your policy of missions and not of substantial support. The repayable advance, which was projected as aid to enterprises, has shaken the restrictive measures and the anti-grass tax which remained the same, while the increases in raw materials in construction and the craft industry are getting an avalanche rate. So, against this explosive anti-grass scene, what do you say to us? Increasing 0.2% in average wages, when GDP moves by 4.5%, i.e. robbery and some five-and-a-half subsidies in high-priced electricity, because the large pieces of pie are for the companies that sell it. A real mockery for people's consumption. Workers and pensioners are right to protest massively on the streets throughout the country and these days, claiming measures to support incomes, increases in wages and collective agreements, with regulated labour rights, increasing health expenditure, lower taxation. However, the definitive solution to the sufferings and the problems of the people are the overthrow of this barbaric policy, because it is the obstacle to popular prosperity. That is why the state treats the people as an enemy, because business groups and their profitability is interested in developing. Therefore, through everyday struggles, a pan-Hellenic concerted movement of the working class and its allies, rooted everywhere, in every workplace and industry and in every area, can be formed, with single requests and goals that will pave the way for the struggle against monopolies and capitalism, which rotates. In this way we call on the people to go, because the future is socialism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u78	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Georgios Logiadis from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u79	It's my turn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u80	Excuse me. We continue with Mr. Konstantinos Hetas from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. You're probably tired of the PASOK elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u82	It's true, too. We've had a lot of involvement, and you know we're tired.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u83	Did you count votes? What were you? Impossible committee? Thank you very much. Reading what you budget, Mr Ministers, for 2022 and what you say you achieved in 2021, I wonder if we really live in Greece or whether we live in Zurich or Stockholm. We have a question in which country we live. If we lived in Zurich, we will pay VAT on basic consumer goods 7% rather than 13%. You tell us about recovery, about growth, that the economy took place, it runs, that the train started, GDP grows, deposits increase, households prosper, unemployment declines, and more and more of such cute things you say. It's a cute thing to say and say with an arsenal and emphasis. It's really annoying, on the one hand, to refuse to see reality, but on the other, to try to convince everyone else that you guys, I don't go backwards on the road, everyone else goes backwards. They say the statistic is a very good, scientific way, I'd say, not to tell the truth. And the truth is that the budget you bring, unfortunately, will fail. I'm afraid so. I wish it had succeeded, but we were also talking about 2019 and 2020 and about 2021 and 2022. Do you know what the worst is? That all your government is presented as a specialty, that you know everything better and that without you, the country will be destroyed. But you're the one who destroyed the country just now, just five years ago, just ten, just 15 years ago, 20 years ago. It's you! You are the ones who have been borrowing all the time, raising our country's debt. You're the one who ruined the ESS a little now, a little yesterday, a little earlier, just 15 years ago, ten years ago. It's you who divide the Greeks. We see ministers swept away for the success of government policy. Government policy for who, for whom? And don't tell us about the country, don't tell us about the Greek citizens. You guys make numbers. Follow the orders, because we can't even breathe without being told any good outside. Legislate for the few, legislate for the service of interests. We're talking about tragedy. Here the world can no longer buy - and I wish it were populism and verbal exaggeration of our own - basic food. The rally of accuracy continues, the energy crisis is growing, businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, have almost been destroyed, but you present it all with your own media, with your own channels, in your own unique way. The world is going through a lot of trouble, and when we hear the ministers take lessons about what the difference in recovery and development is, at least we are outraged. We may be discussing the budget for the last four or five days. Do you know what the worst picture is? It's really a terrible picture. When it opens - because, unfortunately, we made the Greek - the poor man in the PPC file and he sees through the prices his hair drops. And he tells you, what do I do now? Pay the rent? Pay PPC, for paying 100 and paying 230? What am I supposed to do? Should I give the doses to the tax office? He's shaking his soul. They don't know how to pay it. They don't know how to take them for a walk. They don't know what dawns them. That's the reality. The truth is that your entire policy has as a priority foreigners, banks, but at the end of the day the Greeks go to the fund and pays. He goes and touches them. He's gone. The Greek taxpayer is always the one who has to pay, who must feel grateful for the crumbs. And I impoverish you, I destroy you, and take these, my child, the 250 euros to say, and thank you. It's not like that. Precisely. What about the wave of accuracy, that is, that scans the whole market in all kinds of food? Basically, the price has increased in bread, milk, meat, olive oil, fruit, vegetables, in all basic foods. An incredibly crazy race. We have heard the Minister for Development say that there is no precision on the market. Is that possible? Don't mock us at least! Say things are hard. Sit here and work, see what we're gonna do. Don't tell us now that everything's perfect. It is at least challenging to hear such things from ministers. Pick up some of your ministers! A little humility. The problem is a big one. You expect me to remind you that inflation hit red and broke a decade-old, 4.8% record? From the first moment we stressed, as a Greek Solution, that we must be energy self-sufficient, as a country, that we must produce our own wealth, not depend on imports, that it is necessary to change this country's productive model and turn to the primary sector. Our language has become a haircut, and in the end, farm land is falling. Our farmers find it harder and you plant wind turbines everywhere, photovoltaics and go by saying. Energy crisis. It's a global phenomenon, but what do we do? Don't you have any responsibility for launching gas prices? You are rushing to subsidise the accuracy - that's what you're doing - the accounts of the same company, that is. We have the most expensive current in numbers, which is a stock exchange every day. Every day we have the most expensive current in Europe. How is that possible? Why? What are us? The rises are dizzy here and you are rushing at the same time to condemn lignite, as we did the other day here, to legislate in Greece as well. We've solved our problems! To pass to the post-lining era in Greece, while we have stocks that can solve our energy problem for many years. And while you legislate all this, shut down the lignite, the lignite plants normally work, so we don't have a blackout. I mean, we're talking about incredible mockery. I would remind you here - I have said it many times - that countries such as Germany, America, Turkey, Poland, continue to have lignite by over 2030. We are now. Tax policy. Tell me: There can be no budget based on a heavy tax policy. I cannot, in other words, get from there - with all the current situation - 50 billion in 2022, increased by 3 billion compared to 2021. The income tax alone provides for revenues of EUR 15.3 billion, from the personal income tax of EUR 10.3 billion, increased by 653 million compared with last year. And this is the tax paid by pensioners, workers, Greek households, the simple family, the one who sees us now and shaking her soul, who doesn't know what to do, warm up or eat? Take a piece of bread to feed her children or pay the electricity and the gas? VAT of 18.7 billion will reach 17.1 billion last year in 2021. One and a half million more. Excise taxes are over 7 billion in 2022. You know, I imagine, that indirect taxes are one of the highest in Europe. You know that. In Bulgaria VAT is 20% and 9%, in Malta 18% and 7%, in Spain 21% and 10%, in Cyprus 19% and 9%, in Germany 19% and 7%. How will we compete with these countries as a country? In Turkey VAT is 18% and 8%. How are we going to compete with Turkey? We told you, lower taxes. The example - a hundred times I will say, until everyone understands - is doing 10 euros and has been 15 euros and with 10 euros the State receives EUR 2.4, now that it is 15 euros, it receives 3.6 euros. Add the tax, collect 2,4 euros again, drop the price of the product. Unemployment: You pride yourself that it will decrease to 14.2% from 15.9%. How do you really make this such an optimism, I don't understand. I really don't understand. The Greeks are leaving. Seven hundred thousand Greeks are gone. Is that how we solve the unemployment problem? Of course, if he's unemployed here, the other one will leave. You don't think he's unemployed, though. Or are you going to tell us about the OAED lists? From the OAED lists how do you reduce unemployment? With the two-month contracts, the quarterly contracts, the five-month and the eight-month contracts? Is this how unemployment is reduced? Thus, unemployment is not reduced. Thus, the numbers prosper and the Greeks are unhappy. That's what's going on. Business is putting a mass casing, neighborhoods are devastated. You see them, get out. Neighbours are devastated and, especially now, with the law on the post-living era, for example, an entire region in western Macedonia is condemned, over three and a half thousand families. Our country is, in fact, at the threshold of the food crisis. We've mentioned it too many times, we have hunger Greeks, Mr. Ministers, they're hungry! You're gonna tell me, you're plundering. Am I plundering? EUROSTAT: One in three Greeks is poor and with no future. Five hundred thousand Greeks don't have to eat. Under the poverty line, five hundred thousand Greeks, which means that they do not get enough food, are not heated in winter as they should, do not get dressed as they should, do not have drugs when they get sick, nor health benefits, they do not have the childhood they should. EUROSTAT! Who is EUROSTAT now in front of you? You know the letters better. Health crisis: What can we say here? What now about your destructive and punishing choices? The 43.3 billion that you nurtured us, like the billions are peaches? For the division you are promoting, for the ESS that is falling apart, and you continue to punish health and you have seven and a half thousand people in the first line, in revenge and obsessively in unemployment, that surgery is postponed to hospitals, that staff are not enough to the ICMs, that our country is making the first deaths per million citizens in the European Union. Unsuccessful policies. These are all your works. These policies have no impact, but, you know, on economic indicators and various statistics. They have an impact on their lives, directly on the Greek people. We've been through this too many times. Your government's budget is unrealistic, it's unrealistic, it's unrealistic. It is based on unbearable taxes and on credit, borrowing, borrowing, lending, and lending, which are full-fledged towards 400 billion of our country's debt. Loans paid by the Greek people, Greek citizens, our children, the children of our children and the crumbs you share now, we will pay them back with interest. This is the truth, as it is true that with lies and alchemys you are trying to convince that you have everything under control. But at some point you must stop running problematic situations that you yourself create. And to solve a problem at some point, you must first admit that there is and really try to solve it. The problems are not solved either by browsing or by tricks, or by cooking numbers, or by unexplained excessive optimism. If you cannot do this, at least stop mocking Greek citizens, but also the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. And now we're continuing with Mr. George Loyadis from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the basic figures of the State Budget for 2022, net revenue in 2022 is projected to increase by EUR 4.5 billion, compared with EUR 2021, reaching EUR 55.5 billion. As expected, this increase will come mainly from taxation, as total taxes will increase by EUR 3.5 billion, reaching EUR 50 billion. In fact, EUR 2.5 billion of this increase is estimated to come from additional VAT revenue. In view of the fact that nothing intends to increase incomes, as we will analyse below, which would justify a rise in consumption as a result of this, the provision for such a massive increase in VAT revenue is nothing other than a government forecast that broad-consumption prices will remain high or even higher. At the same time, excise duties will increase by EUR 500 million. At the same time, the amount of revenue from the collection of HPAI is projected to remain, essentially, at the same levels as EUR 2.5 billion, a reduction of only EUR 60 million, while the personal income tax will increase by EUR 650 million. Natural persons will continue to pay the lion's share in relation to legal persons. Let us recall, that we as a PART25 had tabled a proposal for a law on taxation of the technological colleges of Facebook, Amazon, Netfix, Google, Spotify, to tax them with 4% of their net turnover in Greece, which the government did not accept. These figures alone are sufficient to demonstrate the extreme classic orientation of the budget. I now come to the expenditure. On the other hand, total expenditure is projected to be EUR 65.5 billion, reduced by EUR 5.2 billion compared to 2021, due to reduced costs of dealing with the pandemic, since the total amount of support measures is reduced to EUR 3.3 billion in 2022, from EUR 17 billion this year. This will adversely affect consumption, which was thus supported last year. The state budget says that growth and GDP growth will reach 4.5% in 2022. However, growth and growth and prosperity and dignity are also emphasised by us in Mera25. As one of the consequences of the long-term crisis and pandemic today is the vertical increase in consumption of psychopharmaceuticals and antidepressants that increase GDP, of course, adversely. As well as increasing violence and traffic accidents due to psychological problems. The state budget for the levels of unemployment is mentioned, but it does not at all measure the huge paradox, black labour, which is affecting the healthy economy. It does not mention anything about the huge withdrawal of labour and the inheritability of the labour force. For the Ministry of Health the costs are reduced by EUR 560 million, both for hospitals and for primary health care by EUR 279 million. The already low public investment programme is further shrinking, since from 8.35 billion in 2021 it is falling to 7.8 billion in 2022. The opposite should be done, acting countercyclically in the crisis. At the same time, increased military expenditure is planned for ‘natural armaments receipts’. Recently the Minister of State, who met with representatives of retired people, cynically asked them whether they wanted retrospective or freshmen. We, as a PARTA25, are talking about reasoned defensive expenditure, for example the rationalisation and unification of the different weapons systems in our country. Also, let it not be forgotten that the government's tendency to make direct awards by drawing funds from the Public Investment Programme in its own right and by giving itself this right by means of legislation. The public debt is projected to launch at EUR 355 billion or 190% of GDP from 350 billion this year and EUR 341 billion in 2020. It is worth recalling here that, thanks to the success of all the Memorandum governments, in 2022, the country's annual government debt payments, according to the DPRK, amount to EUR 13.6 billion compared with EUR 11.5 billion in 2023. But thank God we lend ourselves cheaply, so to dismantle our tragedy! The public debt, in which the guarantees of HARAKEL will obviously be entered, for non-performing loans of EUR 23 billion will further evacuate the debt and exceed EUR 370 billion. Here we must stress that 2023 has been announced as a year of return to primary surpluses. In 2022, it is an intermediate year to begin the "heat" required by the Memorandums. For privatisation and privatisation, provision is made for relative cash revenues, totalling EUR 2,2 billion, from sales to be made by the Hypersensitivity via the GOI. Thus, the ongoing "exploitation" includes so many contests that have already been launched and I refer to the Yorks of Heraklion Crete, the Organizations of the Port of Alexandroupolis, Kavalas, Igoumenitsa, Heraklion, the Marina Kalamaria, as well as other assets of the sinner TIEDD, such as tourist properties and health sources in Kamena Vourla, Thermopyles and others. No matter how much taxes we pay, no matter how much public property we sell, no matter how much austerity we exist, public debt will grow and as a society we will be destroyed. Your private property, anyone can do whatever they want. But the public property, which our ancestors fought for, does not have the right to divest for ninety years, as is now done by the three governments - PASOK or KINAL, New Democracy and SYRIZA - which signed the Memorandums. The responsibilities and unsatisfactory factors for the state budget are many. Firstly, the development of the pandemic. The Government of Nea Democrat and consistently both in the Memorandumary Cheques, and in its ideological programme, denounced, disorganized and undermined the Primary Care for Public Health and politicized public health. Vaccines, "yes" to all in the European vaccine production complex and through allergenic communication messages created a very furious anti-vaccination movement. The main result is the division of society, with the constant and disastrous consequences both for society and for the economy, whose responsibility is reserved to the Government of New Democracy alone. Merra25 has supported the vaccination programme since the beginning of the pandemic, stressing the need for an immediate organisation of a large public control and vaccination network and proposing that the European Union buy vaccines and donate them to poor underdeveloped countries, for example Africa, for the eradication of pandemic and for geopolitical reasons also against Russia and China. Secondly, the accuracy, the evacuation of energy prices, the collapse of the supply chain and the lack of basic raw materials. The speed of restoring the international supply chain will play a key role both internationally and for Greece. In this area, beyond the demographic problem, too many experienced workers are missing. Others left early retirement, others preferred to be on the unemployment lists, others turned to other occupations and started new careers. This depreciation by managers and workers is the primary problem that destroys the supply chain. The damage is structural and not soon reversible, with what this implies for our economy. A corresponding shortage of workers has also been seen this summer in many jobs here in Greece, for example in tourism, but also in the market for unskilled agricultural workers, such as harvesting or looting recently. The lack of basic raw materials has adversely affected the European Union's steam engine, Germany, and this will have a corresponding effect on smaller economies, such as Greece, which is very dependent, for example on the German tourism market. The very high dependence of GDP on the monoculture of mass tourism poses a great risk to the Greek economy and society. Greek tourism will be further affected due to the continuation of the pandemic, due to the rise of products and services, and it will also have a negative impact on the country's GDP provided for in the budget. The lack of workers' hands observed this year in tourism, the accuracy and openness of two competing countries, will adversely affect tourism directly. Let us stress here that support programmes, such as the working capital of firms, which have been announced, have not even been given that the fixed assets of these enterprises are essentially their real estate, which have been devalued over the last two years. Electricity is a further basic asset, what in the economic theory is called demand-living, that is, as the price increases, because this good is necessary for living, consumption is not reduced respectively. For this very reason, electricity, like all reflex goods, is a relentless desire for the oligarchs, since the privileged monopolistic or oligopolistic exploitation of these goods means a guarantee of super-profit. So while the enthusiasts of the liberalisation of the energy market were talking about lowering prices, which will come because of competition, international experience shows us that private entrepreneurs are doing everything they can to manipulate the market for this very valuable asset. On the other hand, when the good is produced and offered by enterprises operating as a public utilities enterprise, the objective is to benefit the public and not speculation. The establishment of the Greek Energy Exchange, with Law 4512/2018, adopted by the Government of SYRIZA, was a milestone in the privatisation and commercialisation of electricity. The good of electricity has now become a stock exchange commodity, on the price of which fewer people gamble with obvious repercussions on the vast majority of the people who will pay the electricity very expensively. On November 23, 2021, in the plenary session of Parliament, on the question of discussion of accuracy, the Prime Minister stressed in his speech that the aim of his government is to increase the value of PPC's share. It effectively cancels its public character in complete contrast with the public character, as the founder of the New Democracy organized it. Consumption depends directly on available income. Due to the inflation and price rises of reckless consumer products, the bad psychology and uncertainty of citizens, it will be negatively affected as opposed to the government's expectations and forecasts in 2022. Precision and overtaxation damage the available income and change the purchasing behaviour of consumers. Greece has one of the highest rates of VAT in food in Europe. Direct and indirect overtaxation, as a result of the memoranda, is disastrous for the economy. Overtaxation to achieve the unbearable primary surpluses, signed by the three Memorandum governments, leads to tax evasion which reduces public revenue and its budgetary potential, destroys healthy businesses and workers from unfair competition from those who evade tax. Consumers also lead to a reduction in demand, to a search for alternative economic products, even less quality, with what this implies for their health and to a postponement or cancellation of the purchase of products. Any increase in the minimum wage of 2% provided for in the 2022 budget is neither a drop in the ocean of these premiums, nor a 2% reduction in insurance contributions, basically supports the very few and very large enterprises, not the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, who employ up to ten employees and are 99% of the companies in the country. The gradual abolition of the mandatory support measures will also negatively affect economic activity, and of course, no account is taken of private debt, which, due to our country's social structures, is not at all small. With the depreciation of the municipalities and regions from human resources and resources, the number of absorption of the much-conscious Recovery Fund will be distributed and fruited by the very few and very large players - market investors, more openly opening up the gaps that undermine social cohesion. Further uncertainty is the course of interest rates, interdependence and interdependence of stock exchanges and markets in a globalised context, as well as geopolitical conflicts, for example, China and the USA. The primary surpluses we have been put in prison for the repayment of the public debt to the peninsula lead to endless austerity and cuts in the public health, education and welfare system. That is why we in Mera25 are obsessed with the dynamics of public debt, and we are therefore asking the Government to bring the file of bankruptcy in 2010 to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u88	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to ten colleagues in the opposition. I want to thank them for not repeating last year's mistake. Last year's mistake was the printing of the whole opposition to the government in four words: padlocks, increase in unemployment, redundancies, poverty. Fortunately, opposition has been disproved for the country. That is why the same words have not been repeated today. Finally, we do not know the reality, as SYRIZA's rapporteur said a year ago, but rather opposition was presenting a virtual, a miserable reality. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased I have just heard the special rapporteur for the Greek Solution. You said to us: "Slow taxes, raise costs, reduce public debt, don't let us go. But you saved us 43 billion. You're sharing crumbs. So give it more. You are based on loan". Speechy thoughts. You cannot reduce taxes, increase spending, so basically not increasing deficits, which means you have to borrow in order to be able to cover the debt increase. It's just financial. You asked us to square the circle that no one has ever done in the world. We never presented a pink situation. The citizens have actually taken three cleansings in recent years: the tax clearance, HISPIA and, say, PPC. Let's take the main provider. In the tax clearances we agree that the overwhelming majority saw reduced clearances. So this government has helped reduce taxes considerably. That is what I think we can agree on. If I ask you, not everyone in this Chamber has paid less taxes. In HUSPIDA for two years the whole society, with particular emphasis on the lower income layers, has been paying mid-weightly lower than HUSPIA. And yes, we do have the energy crisis in which citizens, not the lowest income layers they have and the social invoice, pay despite the successive government interventions that are higher accounts. That's the truth. But if anyone sees any PPC clearing house they will find that a serious government intervention has been made through the Energy Transfer Fund with successive efforts in September, October and November. Negatives are obvious. It will see PPC's attempt to cover the most important part of this really great increase in tariffs. And we'll keep doing it. And we're likely to make it more intense as the crisis goes on and it gets stronger. But the reality is that in this field too we are close to society as far as possible. I have heard SYRIZA's general rapporteur say 'votes of convenient elements'. You will allow me to tell you that growth is not a vote of convenient elements. The first quarter of 2021 is the best of the last decade. This will allow me to tell you that it is an important conquest for society itself and for the sacrifices of society. Unemployment is falling according to official figures. Mr. Heta, what can we do? The numbers reflect reality. It is the greatest reduction in all European countries over the last two years. We can only recognise that. It is collectively the efforts of society and the government, -3% over the last two years, when the average in Europe is +0.2%. When the available income of the citizen, i.e. the money left over in the public's pocket, has been strengthened in 2021, we cannot hide it. It's a conquest of the country. You told me to speak with comparable data about the past. In the second quarter of 2021, the household income available is higher than the second quarter of 2019, i.e. before the health crisis. Then he ruled another party. The citizen's available income according to ELSTAT. And the comparable elements, if we look back, reflect reality. I filed it with the committee. Citizens' statements have been growing every month for two years. In October of the price crisis, only household deposits increased by EUR 500 million. The turnover of enterprises in the nine months of 2021 is the turnover of enterprises in the nine months of 2019. That is why it is justified that there are deposit increases because close to them the state came and gave 43 billion euros by strengthening an image to the real economy that had reached the 2019 level in the nine months. That is why the strong type V recovery, which was challenged by some. Poverty has shrinked. It had started from 2019 to shrink. I've said it in public. It's still shrinking. Investments have been strengthened overall. I don't need to talk about individual cases. Exports have reached record level only in the nine months, ten months of the year. I do not want to talk about industrial production, about the economic climate index, about the cost of borrowing. I've got a lot of indicators. These figures illustrate a good picture and a good path and good prospects for the Greek economy. It's not idyllic. The current juncture has two crises at the same time: health crisis and energy crisis. Indeed, there are risks ahead of us. They are fully captured in the budget. The government methodically, consistently, built cash in order to be covered for any developments in monetary policy in 2022. So I come and tell you the big picture is good. The prospects are positive. But yes, there are problems, risks we have to face. Top of the day is the accuracy. The problem is acid. It is more acute than the initial estimates at European level. It lasts longer than the initial assessments at European level, but the common component remains to be that it will be temporary. These provided, the Greek state - and it does - should help with permanent interventions the citizens' income available. So permanent tax reductions. Mr. Heta, I'm sorry, but this government is the first in recent years to reduce taxes. And a lot of taxes. And in your wallet. We are coming with one-off measures, with short-term measures of EUR 1.1 billion so far. It doesn't matter whether enough resources are from the Transfer Fund. With 1,1 billion we help every citizen meet the energy crisis and double the minimum wage increase, the first from 1 January 2022. Mrs. Ahchioglu filed a painting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u90	You asked for the floor for two minutes and you already speak eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u91	I didn't say two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u92	Does it bother you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u93	It bothers that she didn't say it when Mrs. Ahtsoglu and Mr. Tsipras were here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u94	I'm sorry, there's a rule. The government doesn't expect the representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u95	If I had interrupted, they would have told me that I had interrupted the speakers. Mrs. Ahchioglu filed a painting. And what did he say? We were all in this room. He said that the minimum wage was not only increased in two countries, Greece and Estonia. Isn't that what he said? The painting, however, says something else. It says it did not increase in Belgium, Spain, Greece and Estonia. The other two countries they are? He's here in the painting he filed. And that's not all. On the next page he didn't tell the other truth. Austria, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Sweden have no minimum wage. And not just that. France, Ireland, Malta, Germany and the Netherlands are increasing the minimum wage from 1%-1.9%. We will increase him 2% on 1 January 2022 and there will also be a second increase in the minimum wage. Incidentally, in order to be absolutely honest, Mrs Ahtsioglou further tabled a table saying that Spain eventually came out of that list she had tabled and increased the minimum wage on 28 September 2021. I'm guessing you're recommending that we make this minimum wage increase. How much? From 950 to 965, that's 1.6%. Is that your suggestion?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u96	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u97	We do 2% and we will continue to do so. And last comment to Mr Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u98	He's up 30%! Lies again?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u99	I'm imprinting the paintings you've given. Estonia and Greece, while I see two other countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u100	This is where he posted 30%, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Zachariadis, you have a parliamentary representative! Mr Alexiadis is here and he'll answer. So you don't have to shout!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u102	So I come to one final point. Mr Scandalidis said that we are facing the challenges and uncertainties of the future with unbelievable light. It's just the opposite. We are dealing with them with responsibility, seriousness and insight. We recognise that the country has a high but sustainable public debt. We recognise that the country is the only country under enhanced supervision and the country is not in investment. There are great challenges ahead of us, but we are coming with a perceptive editorial strategy, with a prudent budgetary policy, with early repayment of the International Monetary Fund and with early repayment of bilateral loans with all countries, the Member States of the euro area from the first memorandum to demonstrate the seriousness with which we are facing the present and future of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u103	Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It took 11 and a half minutes from the Minister to repeat what he has said many times to the Committee on Economic Affairs, but also to various television and other appearances. Minister, you are using an example of PPC in particular, and I would like to tell you that we are being heard by the citizens. You cannot use such an example. As far as PPC is concerned, a farmer pays about 2,000 a month additionally and a household where he paid 50 euros pays plus 150. So you say it and talk about it again, because we've submitted the evidence. You say it and, above all, say it again and say that we have a growth, that we have a recovery, that everything is going well, and so on, because people are now listening to you and understand. The problem at Parliament's level is that you are saying the same thing and the same arguments you have made in the Committee on Economic Affairs and which we have answered you. As far as these specific issues are concerned, you will get other answers in the next few days. But decide whether to give answers to all the questions we have raised in the Committee on Economic Affairs and to which you have avoided answering or giving answers to questions we have raised for years and are not answering them. And since you have a competent staff or political staff, give us an answer at some point to understand: On 13 December 2014 how much was the country's reserve and the "bad" SYRIZA came and did what he did and gave you 37 billion? Give an answer to those famous twenty-nine unjust taxes that you and Mr Besiropoulos made some years ago. What will you do with these twenty - nine unjust taxes? Because when you put 100 euros a month of raisin to those who don't get vaccinated, that's nothing about some channels and nobody talks. But when we put an end to the plastic bag and voted in here in the Chamber, then you denounced us for tax-payers and came as a New Democracy - and you did right - and you increased it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So stop hypocrisy, give political answers to these issues and at some point decide to have a civilised and serious dialogue. To use your own expression, do not constantly change the goalpost. Answer the specific political and economic questions and questions that we have raised and which you avoid answering. And because every time you move us tables, statistics, etc., don't be afraid. Dare sometimes, whether you or anyone other than the political leadership of the Treasury, a appearance at a television station, the most friendly of you, the most friendly journalist in order for the people to listen to us and do not resort to the parallel monologues we are doing here, because we understand that this process is a process of parallel monologues. So answer the evidence, give persuasive answers and do not try to escape reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u105	We are now continuing with Mr Emmanuel Konsola from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that democratic dialogue is also taking place, but also a debate with arguments. The Minister did nothing else here earlier than testify to this policy. And our rapporteur, Mr Russopoulos, answered very well earlier on all the questions you are presenting now. And the committees became a fruitful and substantial dialogue, and the common component was that solutions are actually being found in the country through the political activity of this government when there are huge challenges in the global village. It is not only the political challenges that exist here, the counter-problems you are putting forward, but there are global challenges, such as the environment, energy, the economy and health. I think that in this report no one disagrees that a supreme rationalization needs to be established so that there is a common component for the next day. Greek society, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, has suffered the consequences of populism. And the truth is that it has not only been the result of populism and irrational choices, so that the citizens themselves have a heavy cost, but also that populism has then been defeated, as have the subsequent practices and logic shown by policies condemned by the citizens. However, the vast majority of Greek citizens have made a high level of maturity. Politics must therefore have an educational role, but must also build and maintain relationships of honesty with the citizens. And it is true that the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, has created a strong relationship of trust with the citizens for two and a half years. The relationship of trust with citizens has been built through consistency with results that are areas from which the credibility of governance policy is judged. It is important to point out that all this has been achieved in very difficult and unprecedented circumstances. The pandemic was an asymmetrical threat we've never encountered. It was an asymmetrical threat not only to the health and life of citizens, but also to our economic and social balance. We have all seen that the government has mobilised and made available funds totalling more than EUR 43 billion in order to deal with these consequences. It is estimated to be the position of colleagues from the Representation that the policy of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the government, was in the right direction to strengthen the damage that society suffered by the pandemic. The aim was to keep businesses alive, to keep jobs and social cohesion, to support entrepreneurs, to support businesses, to support workers. As I said before, in politics everything is judged by the result. If the fact that the Greek economy shows a lot and shows a mobility - it closes in 2021 at a growth rate of 6.9% - is not a reliable indicator and a presumption, as the Minister has already said, despite the fact that in the first months of the year there have been restrictive measures through lockdown, what is the indicator showing this mobility and growth? And I say this firstly, because it turns out that we were able to cover the 2/3 losses of the gross domestic product of the difficult year 2020, where there was a recession of 9% and secondly, because we confirm the dynamics of the Greek economy. On this dynamic and positive macroeconomic data already recorded, this budget is based today on 2022. This is a budget which, beyond the reference to its basic figures, must be linked for the first time to three major innovations. First innovation: The activation of a new financial management tool that is piloted by all general government bodies and the wider public body and aims at evaluating the efficiency index of public resources. It is clear to all of us that I am referring to the budget for all the institutions of the central administration, as well as to the Greek Parliament, where they will now be evaluated. It will be a very important search by the citizens themselves to see the appreciation of this effort and of the government and of the National Representation. Second innovation is the strong and distinct environmental footprint with measurable indicators of policies followed by all general government bodies. Third of the budget's innovation is that it is linked to the full classification of expenditure and to making it easier for every citizen to access them. Since 2022, Greek citizens will have full access to and information about all the costs of all general government bodies by sector of political activity. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now refer to revenue. It is predicted that the net revenues of the state budget will be made at EUR 55,425,000,000, increased by EUR 602 billion, i.e. 1.1% compared to the target of the medium-term budgetary stability programme. It is noteworthy that this reference, as also the increase in tax revenues, where an increase of EUR 3.5 billion is envisaged, has even today been criticised by a number of colleagues from the Officerial Response, who are doing a paralysing policy, wanting to turn the white into black, speaking of an increase in taxes. No falseer and more untrue, because the increase in tax revenue will come from growth, and above all from the policies established by the government through its programme commitments. Mr Russopoulos said so before, and the head of the Ministry of Finance said so just before, the ministers told the committees and colleagues from the government majority. Ladies and gentlemen, this government of Mr Mitsotakis has submitted three budgets to date and we must reinstate your thoughts in the direction that you are not looking at today. I say this because the three budgets did not impose any new tax. All three budgets included tax reductions. The same applies, of course, to the 2022 budget, to which tax reductions have been introduced. And let me mention the following: tax reduction in the tax rate for businesses from 24% to 22%. Let us not forget that the second reduction made by this government is a significant reduction from 28% to 24%. It is also an achievement of this government. Reduction of taxes by extending the exemption from the special solidarity levy for 2022. Reduction of taxes through the extension for 2022 of the reduction in insurance contributions by three units, in fact. There were, in fact, colleagues from the Opposition that dried up this policy. The reduction of the tax advance on legal persons and legal entities from 100% to 80% on a permanent basis. The reduction to 55% by 100% of the advance payment of an income tax for natural persons on a permanent basis for the 2020 tax year. Noteworthy is the deduction from gross revenue from small and medium-sized enterprises of expenditure linked to the green economy, energy and digital transformation, increased by 100%. There is also tax relief. Tax relief is also an extension of the scope of reduced VAT rates to transport, the tourist package, coffee and non-alcoholic beverages until June 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of expenditure, let me make some points following my report on revenue. Expenditure on benefits to workers will be EUR 13,599 million, increased by EUR 131 million. We must stress this. Social security expenditure will amount to EUR 221 million, increased by EUR 23 million compared to the medium-term programme. Public health expenditure is increased in 2022 and with the last budget submitted by the previous government, as general government health expenditure reaches 6.3%. We must say this, ladies and gentlemen, emphatically, because there are indicators, figures and opinions which are inconsistent with what the government is putting forward today, with this budget. The regular expenses of the Ministry of Health, without calculating the pandemic emergency, amount to EUR 4.52 billion in 2022, compared with EUR 4.77 billion in 2021. In other words, there is an increase of EUR 250 million. It should also be pointed out that around 30% of the recruitments that the government will make to the public will take place in the health sector. It was announced by the Prime Minister himself and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. I would also stress that, in 2022, appropriations have been provided for the treatment of emergencies in the public health pandemic, amounting to EUR 736 million. What does that practically mean? This means that total expenditure is expected to amount to EUR 5.257,000 in 2022 compared with EUR 5.217,000 in 2021. In other words, there is an increase of EUR 40 million. In addition, the cost of the Social Security Institutions is increased by EUR 759 million. From 43,290,000,000 euros in 2021 it is increased to 44,000,000 euros in 2022, while the regular expenditure of the Agency for Renewal and Social Solidarity is also increased by 155 million euros. There is an additional increase in expenditure on the main pensions from EUR 29,487 000 to EUR 29,793 000 000 and an increase in the expenditure on family allowances from EUR 1,087 000 000 to EUR 1,02 000 because of the broadening of the criteria. In conclusion, we stress that initially EUR 2 billion have been spent on dealing with the consequences of the pandemic, as the costs associated with emergency aid to beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, such as heating allowance, subsidies to electricity bills and others, are additional costs that give rise to an impulse to the family budget of Greeks and Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity to refer to figures when it comes to revenue and expenditure. They are, however, substantiated. The presumption of a policy that this government consolidates and even consolidates through the prospect of the Recovery Fund, which is a vindication of the efforts of the Prime Minister and the Government, but is also a great opportunity for the country that must not remain untapped. Our country has a serious, structured policy, a government that sets objectives and succeeds, a government that has a development target in all the manifestations of political life, a government that knows how to negotiate reliably in the European context and an example is the conquest through the active government's policy in the European forums, ECOFIN, which now permanently guarantees our country's right to have reduced VAT rates on the islands. The next day belongs to the future, to the Greeks and Greek women, for all of us. We therefore call on you to see the budget positives and to vote on the 2022 budget, which provides for strong growth rates. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u107	We're continuing with Mr. Socrates Famello from SYRIZA. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the 2022 budget is being discussed at a time when Greek society is experiencing extreme crises, crises that multiply and insecurity and uncertainty. Pandemic crisis, crisis of accuracy, energy crisis, climate crisis and natural disasters. Today the sad number of hundred and thirty deaths was announced. The pandemic victims are already reaching the tragic number of nineteen thousand and probably five days we will have spent the twenty thousand casualties in our society. The hard indicators of intubated and fatalities do not deviate. Experts warn, but they don't listen. The government chooses the political management of the pandemic. He chooses not to listen to the scientists. It selects conflict measures that multiply unreliability. He has not chosen - and he has never explained why - to support the ESS with recruitment. He never explained why he does not demand private clinics, but instead offers them unfair profits right now. He didn't answer for the intubated out of the ICU, but also for the mortality. It did not explain why it did not exploit the municipalities, the KAPH, the "Help at Home" for the vaccination programme. It follows the recipe "seeing and doing", measuring only political costs and profits and all difficulties it brings responsibility to the citizens. This is what we live in in natural disasters. From a grand statement, even of the Prime Minister, and in practice in the absence of public prevention policies, which is also contained in the budget that we are discussing. For the great floods of western and central Greece, the Mitsotakis Government's response was that it has frozen its flood risk management plans that we first delivered by the SYRIZA government, as well as the water resources management plans, which had to be reviewed by 31 December 2021 and have not yet done the contracts in the 2022 budget, are to be completed, and they want twenty-four months to be worked out. "Have me the plank," we say that. Similarly, the government frozen the regional adjustment plans, the resilience of our society. They're telling us later about a climate crisis. They had begun in 2019, I remind you. Otherwise, we will hear a lot of talk about green budgets. Today the Prime Minister first visited Evia four months later. He said nothing, of course, that he chose not to implement forest fire prevention policies and that he was responsible for the great ecological disaster in the summer. Of course, in order to understand hypocrisy and falsification of the budget, I am tabling the following document: in the 2021 budget the Government had set a target of reducing 10% of the bad areas. This year we see a tragicly negative record, the largest part of the last decade, a negative record in the Mediterranean, 1.5 million burnt areas. The same goes for accuracy. ELSTAT's inflation figures are not taken into account by the ministers who say that the problem is only in the accuracy of energy. I will submit ELSTAT's tables from "KATHMERINA", which show that in fifteen species, ten is no energy, it is the housekeeper's basket. And the one with the signature Mrs. Mitsotakis. The electricity bills, however, come to everyone, no matter what Mr Stavros says. The government cannot hide behind the griefful subsidies of EUR 9, EUR 18, EUR 39, which are changing, precisely by showing the government's failure. The feasting announcements - always fewer than needs - show two things: The first thing the government does not know is that it is incapable of predicting the scale of the problem. We have been telling you for two years that electricity increases have been signed by the government. You imposed them on PPC in September 2019. The second is that subsidisation of accuracy with climate resources is a subsidy of greed, but does not combat accuracy. With the selection of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Greece today is a champion in Europe at the wholesale price of energy for November and August and does not have market regulation and supervision mechanisms. Mr Hatzidakis told us not far-off in the autumn of 2020 that the market will solve all the problems. Let's see what New Democracy has done about it. First, an increase of EUR 500 million in September 2019, when PPC raised prices and the entire market also raised prices. Then, under PPC's responsibility, the manipulation of energy prices began, in complete contrast to the SYRIZA's policy that kept public control at PPC and for four and a half years we did not have a single increase in energy costs. That's why public control is worthy of you now. At the same time, "you had" bankruptcy of the RES account, a green carpet in diesel - because they imposed unfair taxes, Mr Alexiadis - on renewable energy sources, a shameful profit in the first half of 2020, when PPC sold four times the wholesale, no regulation on the target model, with industry denouncing you for oligopolistic practices, a loss of hundreds of millions of euros in the so-called 'balancing market'. Even today, the Government does not apply the European Commission's toolbox. Farmers and businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, but also municipal water companies, see tragic increases in accounts and obviously are not covered by what Mr Mitsotakis falsely said 'at least 80% of the increase'. We submitted to you accounts in the last few days that say there are farmers paying for the month 2,000 euros more. A grand last bill, 3,000 euros because of Mitsotakis. Farmers, rooms for rent, taverns pay between EUR 1,000 and EUR 2 000 per month. Bakeries have increased the cost of almost EUR 1,000, the gross cost of a worker. This cost will also be due to increases in JHA in water, bread, agricultural products and the consumer. We have been telling you in recent months that both January and February and March will continue to increase burdens and not just these, but much more. You have reached a point in announcing a doubling of the 15% discount on natural gas, while not even 15% has been applied and you announce 30%, resulting in the "ECONOMIC TAXROM" today talking about hay. SYRIZA doesn't say so. The 2022 budget disproves you because it reveals that the government from its budget has not put 1 euro into the subsidy for electricity accuracy, and indeed all subsidies, and even its supplementary heating allowance, are the resources for the climate - and we will be missed from these resources - and at the same time in the 2022 budget there is not even one euro to increase costs, to support consumers and to support them in terms of electricity accuracy. There are already comments from the European Union to change this measure. So it will not be extended to all consumers. The danger now of energy poverty is visible. Even with elements of the European Union - a recent report by the institutions, the ministers know it - Greece is in a more unfavourable situation with regard to heating needs from the other European countries. Of course, it's also the bad habit that Mr. Mitsotakis says the Greeks have to depend on their wages! Yeah, but these are the problems you're creating. We have submitted very specific proposals to you: Establishing an energy card. He was in the National Energy and Climate Plan of 2018. Prohibition of holidays. Ensure access to electricity. Enable the reconnection fund. That is all we have tabled - my fellow Members who have signed it - three amendments which you have not adopted, and not just a five-digit number, which Mr Screkas says 'take if you want to settle your debts' because that is the government's social policy. We have tabled an amendment to reduce the excise duty which reduces the cost of heating oil for households by 35%. We have asked you to use the surpluses of green resources to support energy communities, as well as structural changes in the energy market. It is incomprehensible today, one year after the start of the target model of the energy market, that we do not have bilateral forward contracts. We also need market surveillance and control, not now set up by the Competition Committee and the RAE working party. We really want to address public complaints from industry about oligopoly and manipulation and solve the problem of downstream profits on the market that existed in fact in August and September because the wholesale price of energy does not reflect the real cost of production and, the basic, overthrow the energy strategy of the government that connects Greece and commits it to natural gas. The recent report on enhanced supervision says that Greece has not completed the application of electricity market mechanisms and the government, we and the Commission, say, increase gas dependence. There it hides, behind the liberation, privatisation and gasification of electricity production. Instead of promoting the RES with proper spatial planning, with respect to biodiversity, the government chooses to replace lignite with new private natural gas plants, which is imported, it is carbonary and therefore also has a tax. To burn fossil fuels by 2050! You do not, however, ensure that the electrical system is adequate. On the one hand, you are changing the announcement of ligniteification -2028, 2023, 2025 again 2028 - and on the other, we see documents for looking after all lignite plants throughout the winter, because there is a matter of adequacy, while in the lignite areas remote heating stops and goes the natural gas from which they still have to come out after a decade. That's not a plan. That's like driving straight to the cliff. The size of the catastrophic option is seen by what the rapporteur of the New Democracy said yesterday, from yesterday's wholesale price, which was low because hydroelectric projects and renewable energy sources had been activated. Just the opposite of what you do. I would say, Mr President, that the present one, on which Greece came up against, if I am not mistaken, 13%. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u109	I've tabled that, too, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u110	Here, then, you see that the New Democracy is very short-sighted in terms of energy policies, and in fact, it has not moved on to the Special Spatial Plan for the RES, the presidential decrees for the NATURA regions have not gone ahead with the institutional framework - which has been said for two years - for the storage of offshore wind turbines for the hybrid projects on the islands, for self-production. Every three months it changes the plans for charging electric vehicles, delays the supplies of electric buses, has frozen the energy communities, and all this is at the expense of renewable energy sources, so they contribute to accuracy. Climate law is missing from the budget. Indicative are the options in a key element, energy savings. Take note, in the 2020 budget you said about a 5% reduction in energy consumption. In the 2021 budget you said about green grants that had been piloted in 2016-2017, in the 2022 budget we see nothing. Do you know why? For two and a half years now, the Government of New Democracy has frozen the saving plan, "ELECTRA", in public buildings, but also in the "EXOCONOMO" with households. Not all in 2021 was declared ‘EXCONTINU’. You took out a first name and called it 2021, while it is 2022, while the payment process at the same time in 2021 has been frozen in the "EXOCOCONOMO - AUTONOMO" by Mr. Hatzidakis. And you have a project of our own, when we had spent 670 million in a year of sixty-five thousand families. And we are concerned about the delay in the 'EXOGOVO' because the Recovery Fund, which is a serious and critical delay in 2021, has also been sedated, some 2 billion has been said by Mr Haritsis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please just one more minute. The only area you're going well is the sale, sale of PPC, TEDO, the Infrastructure PPC, loss of a majority of ELPE's Board of Directors and handing over PPC to individuals through an increase of equity, losing a large energy tool. I would remind you, four and a half years, of public control over energy operators on SYRIZA and no increase in energy costs. And dangerous, too, is that you're preparing a sale to other operators. In the medium term, you have put NSATH and NSAIDs, mergers promote to the rest of the institutions such as DESCRIPTION. However, I must refer to two more indicators of the performance of the green budget. It is necessary to 'cream', but it is hypocritical what you are doing. The first: You say that in 2022 there will be two hundred local town planning studies. But a year ago in the spatial planning bill Mr. Hadjidakis told us about four hundred notices in 2021, and now you're going to do halfway through 2022? Second, the forest service mess. And I must refer to that. Mr. Mitsotakis in Evia today said that forest services were transferred from the Ministry of the Environment. Whether the Prime Minister speaks falsely or falsely the ministers are telling him, because Mr. Skylakakis himself, in a document from the General Accounting Office of the State, tells us that they remain in the decentralised administrations because the transport of forest services that the Prime Minister himself announced in August is not complete. And I testify to the circular. Mr. Skulakakis knows her well, and he says obviously the money won't go when the services aren't transported. But that's what we're saying. And you have to tell us who you're mocking about. The Prime Minister or Greek citizens? Use the argument of the Recovery Fund to cover many weaknesses. But I must say that, apart from what we have said so far, the Recovery Fund is not, unfortunately, directed to the region as well, because there is no work of the Recovery Fund such as, for example, Thessaloniki. And these are serious issues since they are even delaying major SYRIZA reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing the state's non-existence at all levels. The strategy of the Mitsotakis Government is simple but also destructive: weak state, defenceless society and economy and individual responsibility for all citizens and professionals. The citizen and businessman are now on their own and are to blame for everything on the basis of Mr Mitsotakis, in all fields except the best friends. They're settled by the Maximos power system. And ultimately uncertainties are multiplying, with the greatest factor of uncertainty and inconsistency of Mr Mitsotakis himself. But it doesn't go any further. We're not going to go on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Femmelle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe in a strong progressive state that will assume its responsibilities, which will say about the transition that the state is planning the energy transition, the climate transition and ensuring that it is done for everyone and is next to all of the state. That is why we want a budget aimed at society as a whole, not just a few. We want a policy that favours all of Greece, which supports the whole society and not just the closest and at the same time harms society and the environment. That is why we believe, Mr President, that this budget and its vote should be voted against to speed up the process of political change in Greece, for a progressive democratic governance. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u115	Yes, Mr. Dog.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. By the time the space is cleared, I'll be done. Because Mr Famellos said - in the rest, the government will answer - the circular that I have made for the transport of forest services, what Circular, Mr Famelle, says, is very simple, that you first transfer the services and then transfer the budget, because if you first transfer the budget and then the services will leave the workers unpaid. It is so simple, but it seems that while I told you and the committee, you insist that we first transfer the budget after the municipality's services. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u118	I should like the floor, Mr President, for 20 seconds because it has been referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u119	There is no such procedure in the Rules of Procedure. There's no staff, there's nothing. Mr. Stamenitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u120	I am pleased that Mr. Skylakakis has deplored the Prime Minister who said that the services were transferred to Evia. He said Mr. Squirrelakis hadn't been transferred.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard something very strange from the previous speaker and SYRIZA MP. He said something about gas, that is, it was wrong to replace district heating in Florina from gas because in ten years we would have to stop it. And why was SYRIZA, for his day, planning with the TEN the extension of natural gas to twenty cities? So why, by decision of your own, which we do, why do we believe, will the Yannitsa, Veria, the rest of the towns be digging in the next five years? Let's be a little serious. And a second. I'm sorry, the suggestion for compulsory vaccination of over sixty, isn't the experts doing it? Why didn't you vote for it? And, indeed, your colleague said this was a tax. He combined it with SYRIZA's taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u122	Harachi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u123	Harachi, I'm sorry. Well, reality number one: Health Expenditure, budgetary figures 2018 3.8 billion, 2021 5.2 billion, 2022 assessment 5.3 billion. Therefore, the decline exists only in SYRIZA's fantastic opposition world. Even if extraordinary expenses are deducted, the numbers are still increased. Reality number two: Twelve thousand hires of temporary staff of nurses and other staff, two thousand recruitment of emergency doctors, two thousand permanent doctors and 2022 counting over five thousand permanent recruitments. Actual number three, unless you don't see it. We are implementing an exemplary vaccination programme that all Greeks have actually embraced and is one of the best in Europe. That's what the people who have seen it have been talking about for a year. Don't you see it? Well, that's the reality and you really have to get into it. Well, for the third consecutive year the Greek Government deposites the state budget, putting citizens and the needs of the state at the core of political planning. The two, in fact, of the three years that we have achieved this despite the adversities caused by the emergence and spread of the pandemic, but also a number of other difficulties, such as the work of immigration, Turkey's provocativeness, natural disasters and the recent energy crisis and an increase in prices in products and goods. Exogenous crises with strong features that have caused strong pressure on the country's finances and have tested the reflexes of our economy, which, however, has shown itself to stand. Last time we discussed in plenary the 2021 budget, which we had described as a budget for recovery and healing the wounds of the health crisis. And given the recent evidence, our forecasts have been confirmed, even beyond the stratum we ourselves have set ourselves. In particular, having spent more than 43 billion - overall and in 2022 - on pandemic and support measures for citizens and businesses, having mobilised significant funds to support those affected by natural phenomena, only 200 million from the state budget was given to ELGA to cover the crop compensation from spring glaciers in Pella, Imathia, Florina, Kozani, Larissa. Having also secured the damages of firefighting but also earthquakes, having finally taken measures to protect consumers in energy and heating -1 billion to date have entered the budget - the Greek economy is present today having covered more than two thirds of the lost economic territory of the year 2020. The growth rate in 2021 is significantly upwards, 3.6 in the medium term, 6.1 in the preliminary draft budget and we also said at committee meetings that it would go to 6.9, which seems to be upwards, according to the new figures for the third quarter of 2021. And note, ladies and gentlemen, these results have not come with new taxes, but with the performance of the economy in quality, such as exports. They are results that have come as a result of the image we have built in the last two and a half years for our country, which is now delivering credibility, showing a commitment to reforms, presents a stable political environment. In this context, the Greek Government presents the 2022 budget, which provides for significant growth of 4.5% and which can be described as a year of stabilisation, because it shows that the dynamic and rapid recovery that we had in 2021 is now becoming a stable development path. All this thanks to prudent management, proper planning and the uninterrupted implementation of reforms by the Government of New Democracy. Unfortunately, however, the successes of the government and all the Greeks seem to be disturbing to some, annoying the opposition, as it cannot accept that all of this is done without the imposition of new taxes and additional burdens on citizens, as in their own logic, which we have in practice, there is only austerity and overtaxation. History has written four and a half years of governance SYRIZA, twenty-nine new taxes, pension reductions and contributions increases. The good performance of the Opposition is disturbing, because it sees that, contrary to its own period of governance, it also created crises, the current government, the Prime Minister and the financial staff are finding the way to deal with the crises that come from outside. The story has also written a disastrous negotiation of Tsipras-Varoufakis equals two new unpleasant memos and a commitment of public property for a hundred years. Ladies and gentlemen, an important role in achieving the objectives we set for 2022, as well as in the long-term course of the economy, plays two areas, to which I shall stand for the rest of my report, for the Public Investment Programme, as well as for the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Programme "Greece 2.0". It is a fact that the Public Investment Programme is the most important instrument of economic recovery policy for a state. According to data, over the past two years, the average public investment expenditure has been at high levels as a percentage of GDP over the past five years, which has moved to around 3,4 % of GDP. For 2020 expenditure has reached 6.4 GDP, of course as a result of financing additional measures to tackle the pandemic, but for the current year 2021, it will remain high, reaching 4.7 of the country's GDP. For 2022, despite the forecast to reduce the Public Investment Programme by 2021, it remains high, i.e. 4.2%. Let me point out that in 2021, we had the vote on two supplementary budgets for the Public Investment Programme because of the need to address the consequences of the pandemic, which shows that the Greek Government, where it needed and as much as it needed, supported Greek citizens and Greek businesses, contrary to the five-year SYRIZA programme, which we have always had to implement. For 2022, total resources, including resources for the Recovery Fund, are to be spent under the Public Investment Programme, EUR 11 billion, which, as a percentage of GDP, is translated into 5.9% for European Union resources, exclusively national resources and resources from the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Now on the NRV for the period 2014-2020, what needs to be pointed out is that the absorption rates, especially from 2020 onwards, appear quite high. In particular, Greece is at the top among the Member States of the European Union in absorbing funds and we are talking about money going to the real economy, not about money simply committed in the regular SYRIZA, but about real payments. With regard to the new programming period 2021-2027, our country has drawn up an integrated corporate pact, which was first adopted at European Union level and is the launch of an ambitious strategy for the regional development of the country. The new ESDP is increased compared to the previous one, since from 23 billion euros to 26.2 billion euros. Finally, on the part of national resources, one of the main areas to be financed is the investment activity of TA II, aid for private investment in the implementation of development laws, as well as restoring damage to infrastructure projects. Finally, it is also important to provide funding for actions aimed at assisting social groups to combat unemployment, state aid to natural disasters affected. Ladies and gentlemen, a key role in the definitive overcoming the problems that led to the crisis 2010-2019 and the conversion of the Greek economy will be played by the implementation of the project "Greece 2.0", which will make use of resources that will return to the country from the Recovery and Resilience Fund. This is undoubtedly a great conquest of the European Union. We have said so and I repeat today that Greece was one of the leading countries, Kyriakos Mitsotakis one of the leaders who anticipated, proposed and worked in cooperation with the others to finally achieve the European Union's adoption of the joint lending proposal. Let's not remember what SYRIZA said then. As a result, our country will receive EUR 30.5 billion from the Recovery Fund, EUR 17.8 billion in loans, EUR 12.7 billion in loans. The total amount of investment funds to be mobilised by the private sector is intended to reach 59 billion euros. The programming reaches 2026, while fifty-six actions with a total budget of 3.6 billion, and by the end of the year it is planned that they will reach 5.5 billion, while in 2022 the amount is estimated to be disbursed to 3.2 billion. The grant component will focus on projects related to and serving in the green transition, the digital transformation of the state, employment and social cohesion, and finally private investment. The loan side is EUR 12.7 billion. The Greek Government's plan aspires and aims through their exploitation - here is the very important one - to mobilise EUR 31 billion of investment funds. It is worth noting that our country is one of the most favoured of this agreement, as the input it will receive will be the highest in the European Union as a percentage of GDP. In six years' time the National Recovery Plan can add seven points to GDP in our country, which will make us among the first three countries to receive the greatest funding in this percentage. Equally important is that our country has managed to approve funds relating to the construction of road networks, such as the construction of the northern part of the E65 and the construction of the North Axis of Crete. We must also not forget the important funds that will be approved for the construction of rural infrastructures for water utilization. We in Pella, as basically rural prefecture, can see the enormous importance of these interventions and be satisfied, as the Almopius dam is also to be built with resources from the Recovery Fund. Our country is called upon to take advantage of the great opportunity called the Recovery Fund and it already proves that it can work. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing, our country's image changes and changes substantially. The proven successful development of the economy is certainly not due either to fate or to the juncture. Both the year that closes and the budget for next year proves that the work of the New Democracy Government has measurable results and we know that what counts most in the economy than is the final measure to make a positive sign. This is a positive sign that does not only serve the numbers, but also has a social dimension and one sees this easily by looking at the amounts spent over the last two years to support all the social groups and the most vulnerable, but also at the measures provided for in this new generation budget, households, farmers and farmers. The Government has two new weapons, the Recovery Fund and the ESRB. It draws up a policy that at its core is economic efficiency combined with social cohesion and justice, goes on to major changes with drivers of digital transformation, a green shift and a transition to the green economy, for strong, stable growth, which offers new and well-paid jobs. A compass that shows us the way for economic policies, the development of progress is the first time the well-being of the citizens. I therefore urge you, too, to vote in favour of the 2022 budget, on which Greece of the future, of all citizens without exceptions, is reflected. A country of extroversion, which goes hand in hand with its time, responds to the protagonists of times, faces crises and moves forward with confidence and optimism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We are now continuing with Mr. Andreas Blonde from SYRIZA. Immediately after that, Mr. Mulkiotis is here and we are finishing with Mr. Jason Fotidas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are having a critical political debate which is not just about the budget of the country next year, but about the long-term planning, in my view, of the future of society and of the country, on the basis of the pandemic treaty. So here we are listening to the Minister, Mr Stavoura, and his colleagues, telling us that we have a responsible, serious and, above all, far-reaching government, which is doing everything well, and we have a miserable and unfamiliar opposition which is destroying. For the insight of your Government we do not need to say many things. What may be worth saying is that about a year ago, you were telling us, the Prime Minister said, that we are going through the last mile towards freedom, basically the pandemic is over, the vaccines are here, the return to normality and freedom is guaranteed. And this in a sense of all the valid scientific and epidemiological forecasts. Even now that there is enormous concern and vigilance in Europe, now that we have the influence of new mutations put on health systems, on societies in an alarm situation, you are bringing us a budget which is the main admissibility of this pandemic, so we must actually go to a reduction in the budgetary intervention required by this global unprecedented and multi-level crisis. Of course, it is challenged to come here and tell us that the criticism of the stagnant failure, of the health debacle that the country is experiencing these days, of the collapse of all the hard indicators, of the country's retreat compared to the other countries of Europe is a remorse of counter-population. It's really a challenge. For weeks now we have been the first country in Europe in terms of deaths per million people. We are a third country in Europe in increased mortality, in access mortality, after Bulgaria and Lithuania. In other words, half of which are due to non-COVID diseases. This is an indicator of the collapse of the public health system and its inability to address not only decently the patients with coronary, but also to meet all people's health needs. There is a monthly index of the ‘BLOOMBERG’ agency. Eleven seats have fallen down in the last count in November. It is an indicator of the resistance of health systems and societies to pandemic. Of course, there are studies in the country that say that the uncovered health needs of people have tripled. In other words, this is a very important indicator that health inequalities are widened from 8% in 2019 - SYRIZA has received the uncovered health needs at 14.5% and with our key and catalytic intervention for the access of uninsured people, this rate has dropped to 10% and in 2019 it was 8% and now it is 24% - and in the previous period of SYRIZA governance it has been drastically reduced and health poverty has been reduced. Not only can you not face the challenges of the health crisis, not only do we have a tragic deterioration these days in all the hard indicators, not only the health system is in lockdown internally and has put down rolls for the rest of morbidity, but at the same time we also have a widening of inequalities. This is the great global theme of pandemic. There is a new term in the literature called "constituency", i.e. coexistence of pandemic and socio-economic inequalities, which then come overall and exacerbate health indicators of the weakest and poorest sections of the population. And that requires multi-level interventions, not only health but also social and prosperous. The removal of inequalities - and this is the key topic - requires policies of equality, social justice and redistribution. In other words, it requires left-wing and progressive policies. And that's the key problem in your management. You choose to make the wrong diagnosis. You choose the line of temporaryity and do this exactly so that you do not have to make any more permanent contributions to the health system and the social state. This is also the world's new conception, that these major crises can only be tackled with major changes in social and political priorities and movements of global solidarity. SYRIZA took the lead in the case of the lifting of the patent, which is the radical response to global inequality in vaccination. Why are new mutations produced? Because the "Omicon" mutation came because Africa has 6.5% vaccination coverage. And how are we gonna get through this crisis? By multiplying production capacity for new drugs and new vaccines around the world. Have you made any move in this direction? Have you taken any initiative with other countries in Europe? Have you ever raised this in the European forums? Soft, because you are counting behind the line of Germany and its satellites, whose line is 'under the hands of the sanctuaries and oestraes of the pharmaceutical industry'. In the midst of this pandemic crisis, in the midst of the enormous agony and insecurity of people for their health, for the survival of their relatives who are invaded and often wait in vain for an intensive bed - and there are shadows there too, and they must be cleared up and explained - and there is terrible insecurity for work and income, but also because of the accuracy but also because of the side effects on the economy and society, you are now bringing us a budget that provides for cuts. You like it, you don't like it, that's the truth. It is less than 820 million transfers from the state budget to the health system, to the Ministry of Health budget. It's less than 560 million the total cost limit of the Ministry of Health. It is less than 280 million in the budget for hospitals and hospitals. It's minus 124 million budget in primary care. It is less than 60 million of the budget for ancillary staff. It is less than 245 million EOPY. It is less than 16 million budgets for private providers and plus 100 million for the pharmaceutical industry. This is your social impartiality from this budget. The only favoured social group are the pharmaceuticals and you have the courage to talk about sensitivity and equality and dignity and that you are doing everything well? It's a challenge! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Indeed, it is a challenge and the issue is now to get other priorities in place, which also the crisis in the acute phase can be dealt with more dignifiedly. We have said what needs to be done and the volume of the COVID incidents and outside the RIS needs to be shared. They've collapsed the public hospitals and their staff. They're on a burnout world, they're massively quitting at this time. We risk the next day in the health system being a lunar landscape. Either this trend will now be reversed or a long-term intervention signal will be given, job improvement, the improvement of wages, new incentives for attraction in fertile areas and in fertile specialities, for integration into heavy and unhealthy and, above all, plans for permanent recruitment to strengthen the human resources of the NSH or indeed, you will sign up and have huge and criminal responsibility for this, the official dismantling of the public health system. New needs have come to the fore: Primary care, family doctor, community care, home surveillance, emergency medical, postnatal care and rehabilitation-rehabilitation, occupational medicine, health and safety at the workplace, environmental health, primary care, reorganization of public health services in the country. Are these in your budget? Where are these new needs? Where is it where the global scientific interest focuses? Where is the adoption of modern knowledge and the need to reorganise health systems, centred on the community and primary level, and not just the hospital? Out of reality completely. I think that the tough dilemma, especially for the health system, is: New ESS and new public health, reorganised radical, with additional resources, with a quick convergence with Europe's average public health spending, which is 7% of GDP, with a plan to strengthen human resources permanently or your plan, which are public-private partnerships and the assignment of ERC pilgrims to the private market and private insurance companies. This is the crucial political dilemma. On this critical political dilemma and on the need for a progressive policy that reduces inequalities, which will redistribute resources in favour of the public health system, which respects both the dignity of the workers in the health system and the dignity and rights of the patient, the progressive political forces must also be placed, so that there can finally be a change of course in political matters. This government has failed. It cannot ensure neither the protection and immunity of the health system nor social cohesion nor the credibility of the policy, and that is why there is a crisis of confidence, and that is why a hard part of society is not convinced and consciously does not apply preventive or other restrictive measures. You've failed. The bet is that there should be conditions of change in political things. It is an accident, in fact, that this great and multi-level crisis manages a neoliberal and authoritarian government, which does not believe in the public health system, does not believe in the social state, does not believe in state intervention in the market, does not believe in reducing inequalities. On the contrary, the Prime Minister considers that inequalities are inherent in modern life and with human nature and promotes competition and prosperity, and that is why another political plan is needed, progressively, to which the needs of society, the needs of patients, the needs of workers in the health system will be prioritised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. George Mulkiotis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget has a basic systemic problem, which is no other than inflation that has already been undermined not only for the forecasts for 2022, but above all for the conditions for assessing the 2022 objectives. The budget text places estimates in a framework of European developments in the euro area, but it has nothing to do with the current reality or realistic estimates for 2022, while inflation in the euro area reached 4.1% in October and reached 4.9% in November, going beyond the most optimistic forecasts, while the global energy crisis is undeniable. In the same direction the trends in food prices, which have not yet unfolded the real increases, that is, the ones that are coming, are moving. I do not think anyone will question the direct link between energy and food prices. I repeat what I have said to the committee, that in the Netherlands, one of the most exporting countries in fresh foods, large areas of production and export of fresh vegetables have been abandoned because of the inconsistency over production prices. And this phenomenon is already happening here, in the Greek province. In this international environment, therefore, it is clear that the budget items, which - I mention a self-sufficient one - are expected to be moderately positive throughout the year 2022 0.8%, allowing a profit in terms of an actual average salary of 0.2% per year, seem to have been copied from a budget voted on in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, the government must give clear answers on how to combat uncertainties. Even the State Budget Office in Parliament points out in its opinion on the draft budget report, namely how to ensure growth and social protection for many, when, firstly, the forecasts for the primary sector are pitiful and the balance of goods is still in deficit, proving that our country has a production base problem. Secondly, when over the last two years because of the pandemic, the labour market has been faced with an unprecedented crisis in jobs, incomes and levels of precariousness. Thirdly, when the minimum wage is below the limit of absolute and relative poverty, it cannot guarantee decent living conditions, while the government's promises of the level of growth are absolutely not convinced. Fourthly, when the Prime Minister with the extraordinary financial support of vulnerable pensioners for the year 2021 treats them like concistadors to the natives, that is by sharing mirrors and beads to fool them. I should like to remind you that it is the President-in-Office himself who had previously committed himself to abolishing the Katrugalos Act, which reduced the pensions of young pensioners by 20% to 35%, that is, on average, by EUR 200 to 250 per month. Not only did he maintain him, but with the new architecture of the contributions that his Government has invented, he will gradually lead to large reductions in the pensions of free professionals and farmers. It is the President who electionally denounced the insurance law Katrugalou for the abolition of the EKRD, but not only did the EKRD not return, but it even abolished the lack of a thirteenth pension. It is the same who electorally denounced the abolition of the pension thresholds from the SYRIZA-ANEL rule, but then he goes on to say that he does not listen to the relevant proposals for his re-establishment, which the Change Movement repeatedly repeats. He is the same that, by pseudo-interpretation of the decision of the Council of State, which made it a law provision, he refuses to pay to the low-pensioners the cut gifts of July 9th, 2015 - May 2016. Yesterday, on Monday, ladies and gentlemen, the Athens Central Administrative Court fully justified and obliges the Greek State and EKKA to pay these retrospectives at 6% interest rate. It is the Mitsotakis Government that managed to overcome even the previous government in the number of outstanding pensions, leaving for years without income the people of labor and thus creating the category of pensioners without pensions. The same government, which has refused the amendment of the Change Movement on fair taxation of its ninth-month retrospectives, as well as in the case of retroactive reimbursement of pension amounts for former civil servants at a tax rate of 20%, including the special solidarity levy and the repayment of any other tax obligation by the beneficiaries on these amounts. It is Mr Mitsotakis and the Government who, despite the explicit provision of Law 4670/2020, cuts the entire pension by 30%, even if the low pensioner makes a cut in the month! It is also the same who in the two years of the pandemic did absolutely nothing essential in the direction of strengthening the ERC. All the measures he took were rough and fragmented. So, what is the political challenge for the New Democracy regarding the ESS? Does she just expect the pandemic bounce to pass through in order to carry out its plans for privatization? That is why we see no real support in the budget? Because when the figures, ladies and gentlemen, are questioned or have a different reading depending on the wings of the House, this means that the government does not intend to support substantially the regeneration of the National Health System. The health system, which the PASOK since 1983 has been aiming to improve continuously, so that it can provide all citizens with uninterrupted access to public health free of charge. We note, however, that the New Democracy Government has other health plans that will affect our vulnerable and unprivileged fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the increase in expenditure on basic and supplementary pensions, but also on allowances, does not result from the application of some new measures, but from measures adopted in 2020 and 2021, in combination with, in some cases, the consequences of coronation. I say this because, for example, the increase in expenditure on basic pensions results, among other things, from increases made this year to pensioners with more than thirty years of insurance under Law 4670/2020. The increase in family allowances costs also results from the widening of income criteria, in combination with the reduction in incomes reflected in this year's tax returns. Moreover, the Labour Force Employment Agency's balance for the year 2022 is estimated to amount to a surplus of EUR 211 million, compared with an estimate for 2021, but this is also due to the fact that the proportion of subsidised unemployed in relation to registered workers has fallen from 15.9% in October 2021 to 10.5% in October 2021. In the preliminary draft budget now, for the insurance funds, what is envisaged? Firstly, the increase in expenditure on main pensions by just EUR 50 million! Is that really possible? At the same time, applications for a principal pension in the first eight months of 2021 amount to a hundred thirty thousand, and will reach two hundred and twenty thousand by the end of the year. Also, the outstanding requests from the main insurance sector reach the incredible figure of 50 and two thousand with an estimate of expenditure of EUR 557 million. You, as a government, increase costs by only 50 million. Conclusion: neither in the year 2022 will the outstandings of the main pensions be reduced, nor in 2022 the ‘retired persons’ will receive the dues. They'll be waiting on their headphone. That is why the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, has found another way of fooling pensioners, who have been in vain for years for their pensions, saying that they were radically corroborating changes in the EFKA. For the government everything is communication and nothing else. And in order to understand the dead-ends of the'retired people without pension', it is enough to learn that after six months, after six months, you have heard, even the advance payment made by Mr Hatzidakis, has been interrupted. Indifference is therefore complete for retired people. Revenues from insurance contributions are now estimated at EUR 15,177 billion. This provision is not just over-optimistic, but out of fact clearly with the pandemic present and the wages paid to them. This is why the institutions, unlike your predictions, ladies and gentlemen of the government, also anticipate revenues for the EBRD reduced by EUR 500 million. Another serious uncertainty: the decision of the Council of State, as we have said, is expected on the reimbursement to pensioners of the reductions in supplementary pensions and gifts in June 2015 - May 2016. This version of the S.H.E.'s decision. - let us also take into account the decision adopted by the single administrative court in the first place - has led to retrospectives of EUR 2 - 2.5 billion. So have you taken her into consideration? Finally, because the government seems to have remembered the previous promises to the relatives - for whom we have tabled three topical questions - and it promises to resolve their fair request in relation to the amount of pension, I ask two questions: Firstly: has the financial costs of regulation been planned and measured in the budget of 2022? What point? Because we can't find it. Or does the government once again make fun of them? And a second theme: The same question applies to the allowance of uninsured over-ages, which has already been passed by law since the summer of 2019, according to which uninsured pensioners of the Greek minority in Albania were decided to receive an allowance with less stringent criteria. So we have asked that in the committee too. So far, no answer has been given by the government. Is there, then, an answer or is it simply embezzling them once again? Ladies and gentlemen, the local communities and economies are resurrected, because the growth promised by the government is not about the many. I tell you with full knowledge of the situation and from my prefecture, Boeotia. Beyond health structures, there is no support, none at all. In addition, unfortunately, shopkeepers are unable to pay even electricity bills. The mountains of Boeotia fill daily wind turbines, the fertile earth is sown with large photovoltaic parks. Really, until when? At the same time, farmers and small individuals receive negative answers from PPC to their requests for the installation of small photovoltaics, to strengthen their poor income. But it turns out so, and it turns out that there are no more possibilities for RES from farmers, because few and the big are clearly preferred. Question: And until when? And farmers, ladies and gentlemen, are at the mercy of God, without any support and care, without any serious development plan. The price of oil has almost doubled, the price of electricity with the adjustment clause has almost tripled. At the same time, we are a champion country, in fact, in the kilowatt now in electricity. There is a major question of transparency about how the adjustment clause is calculated. There is no transparency in tariffs. It's a matter of democracy and accountability. How do the increases come out? Is there a hat coming in? What's going on, anyway, in this? As far as feedingstuffs are concerned, we know where they have arrived to the unprepared. We have the main issue with fertilisers, where according to BLOOMBERG data, the price of ammonia - a cheap fertilizer, basic for producing the source of nitrogen - from 210 dollars in 2009 has reached 900 dollars. In the prefecture that I represent, Boeotia, it is an unknown design course for the two and twenty thousand acres of the codfield, for the implementation of projects for the closed irrigation pipeline system, despite the relevant commitments of the Minister of Development in 2020 on the ground. To date, nothing has happened. Three questions, zero answer. Why? Soft promises to Boeotia for farmers, for Kopaida. As far as these issues are concerned, I will not get tired of repeating them. Ladies and gentlemen, the same proposals have been made since the first time I came to this House: Firstly, the establishment of a new body for the Kopais Agency, for the development and modernisation of the two-two-two thousand acres of the coopian field, with the preparation of anti-military studies and the construction of modern irrigation networks. Secondly, the creation of areas of agri-food innovation, which are crucial to the food and Attica coverage. Third: Creating a market for vegetables and auction for Central Greece. Fourthly, the creation of business centres for the innovation of agri-food enterprises in cooperation with universities and the region's rural product institute set up in Alarto. The problem of the government, and with this budget, lies in the absence of prospects for young people and opportunities for good jobs, the lack of hope for the financing of entrepreneurship, the exclusion of the medium-sized production order from the banks, while any competitiveness, is based on degradingly low basic wages. So we, the Change Movement, the PASOK, the democratic party, respond with progressive ideas and proposals, as we understand that the country needs costly actions, with a detailed presentation of the measures, implementation steps and measurable results with development funds. It requires a social state with economic development and a political system that operates with dignity and transparency. PASOK will be present in political and social battles and will be a vehicle of hope with a modern reason, consistently realism, responsibility, as does European social democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too. And we're finishing up with Mr. Jason Lightla. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating these days in Parliament creates a sense of realistic optimism for the prospects of the Greek economy. This year's budget marks overcoming the health crisis and records the transition of the economy from the strong recovery of 2021 to higher and sustainable growth for the benefit of all citizens, especially in the interests of the new generation. Why, let us be realistic, the development that is taking place in our country already goes beyond the most optimistic predictions. According to ELSTAT's latest figures, GDP increased by 13.4% compared to the corresponding 2020 quarter, and this recovery is the result of our government policy. The rapid growth, investment and business growth, the evacuation of exports and the creation of thousands of new jobs practically confirm the correctness and effectiveness of the economic and development policy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. This development, combined with the decline in unemployment and the improvement of the public's available income, demonstrates the consistency in our election announcements. And that is not just what we see, but also the whole of our partners. The positive assessment by Eurogroup is a tranquil proof that the New Democracy Government has succeeded and addressed directly and targeted the effects of the health crisis on households and businesses, the proof that we have prevented the health crisis from turning into an economic deadlock, the proof that we have implemented significant reforms and major structural changes through the digital transformation of the state. On a symbolic level we strengthened Greece's position, we improved the sustainability of the public debt by extending its repayment and ensuring historically low interest rates. In other words, we have proved and continue to prove that even within the pandemic, with budgetary needs increasing due to economic support measures, we remain a strong and calculated force. The change in our image worldwide has a direct economic impact. We are now a reliable and extroverting country, which improves its competitiveness. In this way we are strengthening the confidence of partners, institutions, markets and investors to the Greek economy, because the 2022 budget also aims to multiply investment, on the one hand through the introduction of strong tax incentives and, on the other, by simplifying the licensing procedure, which we have already secured. Ladies and gentlemen, with the 2022 budget we continue the policy that has been proved to bring results. To date, as you well know, we support the whole society, we stand helpless in businesses and households, absorbing all economic shocks and directly reflecting all challenges. And believe me, these weren't very few. We shall do the same with the budget being voted on. And how do we do it? With a package of measures that fully and adequately meet the needs of the Greek economy, such as the exemption from the special solidarity levy by the end of 2022, and the maintenance of the reduction of the three percentage points of insurance contributions to the private sector at a cost of ECU 1.58 billion. For 2021 and 1.65 billion for 2022, by reducing the refund rate of the repayable advances according to the drop of the company’s gross revenue, at a corresponding cost of EUR 1,230 billion, by extending the ‘GEFHRA’ programme, which covers the grant of loans, natural and legal persons, affected by the pandemic, at a cost of EUR 241 million for 2021, by extending the ‘SOCIAL’ programme by the end of 2021, at a budgetary cost of EUR 156 million for 2021 and EUR 30 million for 2022, by applying reduced VAT rates to transport, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages, as well as to cinemas, theatrical performances by June 2022. Here the financial cost is EUR 249 million for 2021 and EUR 211 million for 2022. We're not stopping here. We are moving towards more generous reductions and, in particular, the reduction of VAT to 13% in gyms and dance schools, while to date it was 24%, with the cost of EUR 1 million in 2021 and EUR 4.5 million in 2022. I'm tired of you, but I can't stop. I take a breath and continue to add to the criminally inadequate package, during Mrs Ahtsioglu, the extension of the programme of 100 000 new jobs for fifty thousand more jobs, at the cost of EUR 186 million for 2022. In addition, enterprises continue to benefit from the GEOGRAPHY 2 programme, with the reduced advance payment of income tax on the disbursement of the remaining amounts, the grants of the support programmes for the catering, tourism and gymnasiums, as well as the micro-enterprise guarantee programme totalling EUR 450 million. For our farmers, who have been tested in a variety of ways lately because of the intense weather phenomena, we have ensured that the excise duty on diesel is refunded to young farmers and farmers - members of cooperative schemes, at a budgetary cost of EUR 50 million. Especially young farmers, who want to remain at their place, are giving them the opportunity to develop into modern farmers. A programme of young farmers of EUR 400 million ensures a significant financial contribution of up to EUR 40,000 to help young people deal with the primary sector and promote their products on both domestic and international markets. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, to use your designation, it was a crime that was over-taxation and tax bleeding of the free professionals and the whole business in the years of your administration. We, on the other hand, acted on what we said. We were committed to reducing taxes on real estate. We did it. We reduced taxes on business and labour. We abolished the parental benefit tax for relatives of first grade since October 2021, with a cost of EUR 7 million for 2021 and EUR 26 million for 2022. Instead of imposing unjustified and multiple taxes, which discouraged investment, as was the case with SYRIZA, we increased the available income for all citizens by reducing the tax burden for employees, pensioners, professionals, businesses and farmers. And what does that mean? It means strengthening the true income of citizens, as a result of reducing insurance contributions, suspending a solidarity contribution, reducing income tax for natural and legal persons, as well as reducing the HPAI. Enterprises are starting their business and employment is increasing and unemployment is shrinking. And in all of this contributes significantly to the Recovery Fund, with the National Recovery Plan aspiring to leaps in recovery rather than simply steps, aiming to move our country to a new era of growth, which is not only aimed at the economy, but also at a wider range of society as a whole. Because we don't stay in blessings, but we do what we envision. This budget is also aimed at young people in their future. The policy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis turns its attention to the new generation and the young people who have migrated abroad. One of our main goals is the return of the new generation, of Brain Drain and its evolution in the generation Brain gain. We provide special tax incentives for young people who have left in the years of the crisis, once they have chosen to go home. And we are not only standing up to the young people who left Greece, but we are also focusing our attention on the young people who are in Greece and are the children of the crisis. So many young children who are unable to find a job because of lack of service. So here we are giving an important incentive to both the younger and the company themselves to recruit a young child without a professional qualification. After all, it is no coincidence that our country has achieved the second best service in Europe in the containment of unemployment. The budget to be voted creates a sense of security in society and inspires the relationship of trust between the citizen and the state. Whether it is a health crisis, a climate crisis and natural disasters, or an energy crisis, we have demonstrated that we are always next door to all citizens. But most of all the most vulnerable. We are always ready to face up to the many crises that arise. We have remained absolutely consistent with the implementation of our election programme not only in the economy but in the other sectors. We're continuing on the road we've made. We are continuing to implement a development, reformist and responsible economic policy aimed at a dynamic, productive, extroversion Greece. I know, ladies and gentlemen of Officer County, that you're here today to say something here. Or maybe you'd better find something to say. But I understand the difficult position you are in because this budget is not offered for cheap opposition to which you are accustomed. And that's why the numbers speak for themselves. Our country's positive economic performance is recorded internationally. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, proves that it has restored the country to full normality by significantly strengthening its presence on the international stage. It implements policies that strengthen the position of the country which is now actively involved in the decision-making centre. A feeling of trust has been created for the first time between international markets, creditors and our country. Conservation and strengthening of this climate is an essential condition for Greece to return immediately to high and sustainable growth. In conclusion, this year's budget is part of a balanced economic policy aimed at the sustainable development of our economy. It is the capital for an extrovert Greece, for a dynamic Greece, for a country with prestige and credibility. From now on we can be optimistic after the conditions for a decade's development leap have been established. We're only at the beginning. It is my honour and with pride that they will vote in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-14-S1-commons.u131	With the consent of the House, the sitting for Wednesday, December 15, 2021, at 9 a.m., on the subject of the House's work is to continue the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'State Budget for the financial year 2022'.
