ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to this House: The Standing Committee on Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Minister of State: "National Accessibility Authority, the National Committee on Human Rights and the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology". The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Mission and human resources issues of the Independent Public Income Authority". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Secretary-General to the Prime Minister responsible for communication and information matters: ‘Integration into national legislation of Directive (EU) 2010/13 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 and other provisions on the competence of the Secretariat-General for Communication and Information’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 11 February 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed, in addition to the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives as well as ministers, that a circle of speakers be involved in a natural presence. Three circles of speakers will also be added to this debate by teleconferencing via the Webex platform. In particular, the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives will be naturally involved, as will a circle involving one speaker from each parliamentary group. A total of eighteen Members present in the Chamber. With teleconferencing service - Webex platform - three speakers are proposed. Each cycle will include up to twelve speakers with the known proportion, five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA and one colleague from each of the other four parties. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Today is going to be a little hampered by the meeting. On the way we will see how it goes and we will discuss together what time the meeting will probably end late in the afternoon. I would also like to inform you that a plea of non-constitutionality has been lodged by Mera25. You will simply allow me, because it is multipaged, to photocopy it, to distribute it to the representatives of the parties and to discuss it after the protagonists of the rapporteurs and special speakers, so that colleagues can see what it includes. Please share one copy in each party. The objection of unconstitutionalism will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u2	So we shall begin with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Panaya Kapato. You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary of the Greek Parliament a bill which we had the opportunity to develop extensively in the committee responsible, a bill organised in two parts. The first part as Article 36 concerns the transposition into national legislation of Directive 2010/13 of the European Parliament on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, a Directive amended by Directive 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018. In the committee, when the draft law was drawn up, agreement was largely recorded on the need for the directive to be incorporated into Greek legislation. The Directive extends specific rules to video platforms and audiovisual content shared in the digital area. It adopts regulations on audiovisual content in all its forms of publicity and reproduction. More specifically, it is traditional linear television, audiovisual services on demand, but for the first time also video-sharing platforms for their audiovisual content. These platforms introduce advertising obligations, for which they are responsible, and advertising included in content uploaded by users. It strengthens the protection of minors from harmful content, both on television and video on demand services. The new rules provide that video exchange platforms must adopt appropriate measures to protect minors. It protects children and treats their hate rhetoric more effectively. The directive also encourages increased accessibility for disabled people. In other words, it introduces an obligation for providers to submit an annual report on their projects and actions in this area. It promotes the promotion of European works on the lists on demand for media services by introducing a provision to contain at least 30% of European content. The regulation aims to support European audiovisual production, providing important prospects for the development and promotion of European and Greek creators and authors. That is what is happening at a time when there is a potential for our country to improve its position in the area of producer hospitality, which will also help revitalise domestic production. The Directive establishes an obligation to contribute to service providers on request. In particular, it defines 1.5% of Greece's turnover. As the Minister explained in detail in committee, 1.5% is derived from the invoicing of providers' services in our country, as invoicing is not uniform in all countries. In this way, providers can either finance direct films or television series either to purchase the rights of original unmoved Greek audiovisual works or to fund a national fund to enhance audiovisual production. The Directive confirms and strengthens the role of the PPE in implementing the rules with a view to pluralism, cultural diversity and consumer protection. It supports the cooperation of the national regulatory authorities within the framework of the European Regulators Group of the European Commission. Finally, it ensures transparency between Member States on jurisdiction, as the Member State - whose law is applicable in cases of conflicts of law - is clarified. The second part of the bill contains provisions on the broadcasting market, content providers, ERTs and media companies. Inserts the obligation to register in the ERR register all the media service providers established in Greece, linear, subscription and order. It simplifies the process for the transfer of a free television channel operator. It provides for the possibility of changing the nature of radio stations and regional television stations once and for the issue of a licence notice. Sets an end date for the authorisation procedure for regional and thematic television stations. It offers the possibility of maintaining jobs in television stations, taking into account, however, the difficulties of today's situation from the decline in economic activity due to the pandemic. For the same reason, it stimulates the implementation of investments by television channels of a level corresponding to the write-down amount of the annual licence for 2020. It shall establish a three-year limitation period for the infringements resulting from sanctions by the National Broadcasting Council. It shall treat the term of office of the members of the independent authorities equally. It introduces arrangements to deal with the crisis in the media sector and especially in the regional media. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is directly linked to two dynamics created by pandemic in our society. The first dynamic is the explosive rise in the use of audiovisual media and digital services by the entire population of our country during the period of validity of the restrictive measures. We have a special interest in raising children’s use. It is no exaggeration to say that for several minors the various video-sharing platforms have been the only way of recreation for months. In other words, there is a need to adapt the institutional framework to the dominant position of audiovisual products in our daily lives. The main aim of the changes is to protect children from either the main content or advertising. The second dynamic relates to the effects of the health crisis on media enterprises. Because this is a point in the bill that has been discussed enough, we must make it clear that, as all the sectors in the economy have argued, the media and the workers in it need similar support measures. These are measures which will help to maintain jobs and to maintain the viability of businesses until the economy returns to normal conditions. The bill also provides for specific arrangements for the economic viability of regional stations, taking into account local specificities. The Minister has already announced a legislative improvement on the inclusion of radio stations in the provisions of Article 50. As part of the debate on the bill, a view has been put forward that the bill is allegedly aimed at censorship and criminalisation of art. It must be made clear that we are talking about incorporating the European directive incorporating all the Member States of the European Union into their law. We are not talking about a special regime that only applies to Greece. What the directive describes is that content providers will ensure that messages of racism, violent speech and inducement are not reproduced in terrorist acts. First of all, who disagrees with this? How else could minors be effectively protected when there is no kind of restrictive wording in the law? Will it be left to every provider to regulate what will transmit and what will not? As regards the targeting of artists and creation, this is not the case, because the administrative penalties concern content providers relaying messages of violence or hatred. Many content providers already apply different content exclusion policies. Social networks have special sections with staff controlling posts that may violate the registration regulation. The Minister is here and will analyse in his speech the amendments he has announced in specific articles so that there are no misinterpretations about the freedom of artistic creation on the basis of provisions of the bill. I would like to make a brief reference to this point in what is said from the officer's point of view on the ERT. During the debate in the committee, colleagues from Officerial Responsibility have constantly reiterated a criticism of the situation in the ERT. The juncture brought it so that a few days ago in this room we can discuss issues of higher education. It is the same debate in fact, a constant attempt by the Civic Opposition to convince that the New Democracy has a hidden agenda aimed at depreciating public goods and services for the benefit of various interests. There is no better example than ERT to demonstrate the unreliability of these claims. ERT's previous administration made specific choices for public service broadcasting, so ERT led to depreciation. On the contrary, from the change of administration to the ERT in 2019, we have a continuous rise in the awareness of citizens, but also in the quality of the services provided, and this is reflected in the measurements and rates of viewing. However, the final assessment at the end of the day is not made in this Chamber by the parties. The final critic of product quality is the Greek citizen, the one who pays to have public broadcasting. And the reality, according to the measurements, is that the Greeks turned their back to ERT during SYRIZA's day. On the contrary, today ERT is clearly on the rise. The citizens trust it, and this is an upgrade of a public body in practice. The fact that the Qualified Opposition refuses the very reality and prefers to display a story of its own, more favourable to its political speech, is its choice. I doubt, however, whether it is an opinion that even the citizens who voted for SYRIZA in the previous elections share. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a digital era in which citizens have many different media and entertainment at their disposal. The changes that have taken place in recent years are testing the potential of legislative bodies around the world to monitor developments and adapt legislation accordingly. Incorporation of the directive is an essential step towards protecting citizens in the audiovisual media sector, particularly minors. Support for media and jobs is equally necessary for pluralism and democracy because of the health crisis. Both the regulatory provisions and the sustainability measures, such as for the media in the Greek region, are crucial for informing citizens throughout Greece. For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of the bill and I congratulate the Minister on the bill which he introduced in plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u4	Good. Mrs Anastasia Gara, rapporteur from SYRIZA, will now take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a pandemic, a multi-crisis, health, economic, social, the New Democracy Government, instead of really supporting and dealing with strengthening society and defending the interests of the country, is constantly bringing bills that are restricted, poor, and services. Suppression for young people, for workers, for citizens, services for the few and powerful, for those who have built a median veil of silence and covertness and help the government to remain in the chair of power. This bill may not establish another police, such as the previous bill of the Ministry of Education we were discussing, but its repressive character is diffuse in most of its provisions. It suppresses labour rights, brings redundancies and attempts to impose censorship even on artistic and creative expression. However, we also see censorship at ERT, as recently revealed from the latest events. The Government of New Democracy is therefore characterized in all its manifestations of authoritarianism, repression and propaganda, the tripartite of success, in order to cover the fact that its policy intensifies inequalities and poverty, leaving society unprotected in the crisis. Legisting at the same time charismatic provisions for systemic media seeks essentially through a continuous and maintained interlocutory relationship to buy support to be held in power. It feeds the channels and "blue" strains at the ERT and the Athenian News Agency, in order to hide the arrogant behaviour of the Prime Minister, the analgesia of the government, as well as the tragic situation outside society. This is a situation that is far away from virtual reality, which the government has built and the mud media. That is why the unacceptable walls attached to the ERT workers, so that they do not show Mr Mitsotakis on Mr Stefanade's terrace, as he referred to a raft of censorship and shame, we would say. You have supported this step, Minister, that you have improved the ERT, that you have created a new ERT, that it has changed the way it works and that the workers and the administration alone are making the news report. "We don't call them," you said features. And yet, a few hours after your statement, you were disguised by the rack of censorship and covertness, and when you tried to falsify cheap excuses and tricks about allegedly provocative and persistent events from some, the workers themselves came out with an announcement and courage and disobeyed you once again, in fact confirming the fact and also the constant censorship practices they accept. The Maximo, after all, and the ERT's Blue Command, are taking care of the implementation of these orders. The same thing you have attempted, without a card this time - don't be exposed! - with the students of the LAG, whom you have repeatedly given the broadcasts space and time to ERT in order to defend with their own arguments, political arguments, the atrocious Keramea law for universities. You presented them as a mere student, without mentioning any of the things they are serving, in what order and in which political area they are involved and even in a higher level. Manipulation, misinformation, flagrant violation of journalistic ethics. But you did not mention that, Minister. When these events were also denounced, the Director-General for Information of the ERT, the man in whose responsibility they belong to both unacceptable cases, even sent an e-mail to the workers calling them malicious and unfair the criticism made in these cases. Truly, we wonder, how should the services he provides and the practices he follows be described? We have noted you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on several occasions the problems that have arisen. We've warned you. We've insulted you. We've called on you to improve the situation. We asked for answers. We have asked for explanations from both the administration of the ERT and the political leadership that is responsible. We ask for political courage from you. However, you have hidden and silenced all these incidents, from the administration of ERT to the Prime Minister himself responsible for the political leadership, a silence on your part, which is not only challenging but also revealing your guilt. Even in the face of the proposals made by the President of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, by Alexis Tsipras, in the House, Mr Mitsotakis hid and left. He did not have the courage to discuss these proposals which were tabled in plenary before the Greek Parliament. Instead, you are now bringing in a provocative provision that introduces the release of wages and gives bonuses to ERT and Athenian News Agency managers. You are effectively rewarding the executives for these practices, executives who have been impoverished to the public media, with an increase in salaries, preferably and only the choice of the board of directors, while for the employees at the same time, only the mobility freeze is anticipated. Even the recognition of their previous service withdrew it, which was in the previous form of the draft submitted for consultation. Blue bonuses in executives, rewarding censorship practices, while society, workers, professionals, citizens are narrowing. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot continue and I think we all have to conclude because it affects democracy itself. ERT, the public media cannot operate either with pearls or with anti-democratic, anti-democratic practices in the social and public interest. And we are all accountable for this, and we are responsible for improving them. That is why, today, we representatives of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance are tabling an amendment to the proposal made by the President of SYRIZA Alexis Tsipras in plenary on Friday regarding the appointment of the administration of ERT by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of Parliament, with an enhanced majority, with consensus, transparency and accountability directly to Parliament, away from party control away from the current government interest. This initiative represents a first major step towards the institutional independence of public service broadcasting, a step towards colonisation, the distance from government power, a step towards the qualitative upgrading of the median landscape. We dare. We dare and call on you to dare and accept this amendment, so that we all contribute to this qualitative upgrading of public media, because rejecting this amendment will be your public acceptance that all you want, all you want, and all you want to do, is public broadcasting under party control, with gold-paid administrations, in order to keep journalists and workers under orders, subjected, without voice, to anti-ethnic practices. At the same time, you are attempting to leave without a voice and the artists with this bill. It is not enough that you have left them at the mercy of the crisis, without any support all this time, with limitations and lockdowns. Now, with the provision you brought to the draft law submitted, censorship in art and expression is sought. You are bound, Minister, to amend the articles in question. However, the relevant proposal you have presented to the public speech, as long as we have seen it, does not really solve the problem. It's just transferring responsibility to the providers. However, we expect to see the submitted legislative improvements and return to the debate on this issue. We must, however, agree that it is necessary to ensure freedom of artistic expression, of art, of creation and, above all, of respect for our constitutional rights. And there is no retreat! Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, this bill brings great blows to workers and holds gifts to canalarchs at the same time, because only wounds will the abolition of the minimum cap of four hundred workers on each private licensed channel. I am referring to the motto envisaged by the Pappa Act, which was so warded by your own party, but also by the media, the Pappa law which, in the end, has been speeded up by mass strikes in order to prevent the full abolition of protectionist provisions on jobs and employment relationships in private channels. Your little retreat in reducing the number is a victory for workers under pressure and mass mobilisation, as well as the reactions of counter-population. However, it is no longer an arrangement that will bring redundancies the next day, as you yourself have admitted from this Step here. That is why we ask that this provision be withdrawn and we ask that the Pappa Act remain in force. Because by this provision you are bringing, you are opening a courier to deregulation on the TV labour market. After all, the owners of private channels told us to the committees, when we met last week, without any rotation of the aim of maintaining television stations with two hundred and not four hundred employees. This provision creates transferable workers who will work both at the television station and in other companies, depending on the short-term needs and the ergonomie. You're actually putting your signature on redundancies. That's why we're asking him to retire. Of course, the beneficial provisions for canals also continue in Article 42. Legislation regarding retroactive discounts amounting to 98.6%. You are effectively exempted from paying the dose for the use of the television licence. In other words, instead of 3.5 million, every channel owner will pay up to EUR 50,000, only to invest in equipment or programme, to invest substantially in the content of his work, to do his job, even though the media already have 44 million of the Pegasa lists, have a discount on advertising expenditure with an increase of up to 100% and for 2020 and 2021, while their productions, their series, which are played and projected on the channels, are also financed and contributed by the EMFF. Which other branch have you been looking so open-handed to? What other entrepreneurs enjoy such privileged treatment? What business has a discount today of 98%? Because all the other professionals took from the government was payment and loans, which must be repaid and we do not know what income. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA government at great cost dared and brought order to the refreshed broadcasting landscape of the country, putting an end to the logic of free. You reinstate the canal rulers' "I don't pay" from the back door. This is a return to an age of immunity, which has been condemned by society and we invite you to forget it and you to leave it in the past. This is a bill with clay service, a bill resulting from pressures and extremist demands from the canals to the government, which is rushing to legislate with this legislation. It was also revealed to the committee and the channel representative. 'Fifteen months', he told us, 'we talked with the government'. What were you talking about? How will workers be fired, and how will you give scandalous discounts, or do we discuss how to get a pay-TV licence for 15 years without a competition? Because these requirements are contained in the bill we are discussing. In Article 43, for example, we have another gift. There is a clear distortion of competition, since you are allowing licences for pay-TV and radio, without a competitive procedure, for up to 15 years. Only a condition for the applicant to hold a national free-range broadcasting licence. This provision makes it almost impossible to attract new investors to the site. A closed market is created, with intense cartel characteristics. You are also abolishing the obligation to denomination the shares of the public limited companies that provide the licence holder with a number of services. Minister, all that I have said shows a distorting and dangerous parliamentary and legislative practice for both rights, both at work and individually, and for society and democracy itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And you may, Minister, reconstruct and retreat for Articles 8 and 41 under the pressure of workers and artists, limiting censorship - articles which must be withdrawn immediately - but you will soon be forced to retreat to your backward, conservative policy, which is causing great wounds to society, especially democracy. However, we will not be content with communication retreats. We will fight for your departure from the government. We will not follow you to the anti-democratic catastrophe. That is why we are forming and supporting a broad social democratic front that resists, criticises, which it claims will overthrow your plans for further poverty, centralism and authoritarianism. And the propaganda you have set up is no longer convinced of society, because it is a resounding reality that the citizens are experiencing, along with the governmental failure, of course, and the provocative arrogance of your officials and the Prime Minister himself. And this reality cannot be stopped either by the above-mentioned commands of the invisible editor of Maximus, by censorship, by propaganda, or by the racks, or by the formatted footprints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u6	Until the Step, my dear Anastasia, has been cleared, to inform you - because it had not even been released - that old, three years ago, we had been discussing the creation of the PSE - as you recall, it took us months - in one of the meetings I had made this proposal on public television. Not to tell you how my majority proposal was dealt with! You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u7	Now will you agree, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u8	Not now because the roles have changed, you support it. Then let it go how I dealt with it. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Let's move on. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu, who is a special speaker from the Change Movement, has the floor and will be placed through Webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation of the audiovisual media directive is taking place in a period of revelations of the information manipulation plan. The ERT methods for camouflage the unacceptable images and dangerous messages of the government mission in Ikaria, led by the Prime Minister, are only indicative of what is happening. At the same time, government inadequacies to deal with the health crisis go a long way. Severe errors in planning and protection measures rather than being corrected, are repeated. The priority for omissions and gaps revealed is not to be covered by complementary measures, but to cover and transfer responsibilities usually to citizens and sometimes to scientists. The vaccination programme has serious problems. A small number of vaccination centres mainly in the region, without the use of primary health care. The movements of vulnerable groups. You have entrusted the "Help to the Home" with their movement, but without means and compliance with public health protocols. However, the measures to tackle the economic and social consequences of the crisis are equally important to all citizens. In the protest of three hundred and fifty thousand professionals from very small and small businesses, as well as many middle-sized ones who were left with the application in hand for'returnable 6' but also about 100 thousand who received from 1,000 euros, the government responds to them that they have been enriched and do not meet the criteria. In the cry of anguish of about four hundred thousand unemployed, registered on the OAED list, outside any support, workers who are constantly poorer, but also the most unfortunate, the government is constantly confronting the well-being of numbers. He has spent 32 billion euros on it, but for some reason he has not reached a single euro on those I mentioned. Unlike these inadequacies to deal with pandemic, the government has proved to be sufficient in some areas. It has a plan, time and money for communication policy and propaganda plan, which admittedly goes well. If the government were to deal with the same zeal and the problems affecting citizens, things would be much better for society as a whole. You are, unfortunately, pursuing a policy of media suffocation, including pandemic, in order to achieve purposes. It is obvious that Mr Mitsotakis is making it more effective than Mr Tsipras and Mr Papapas, who now seem to be relocating. The 2018 and 2019 ERC reports are revealing the truth. Instead of pluralism and political pluralism, to a maximum extent the bipartisan monopoly was claimed: 91% New Democracy and SYRIZA together, 9% others. That is why the controversy, the barren, the politica and the divisive ones are only a mountain: ERT and central channels. Of course, the PPE statistics on ERT are much worse and New Democracy and SYRIZA account for who was better at manipulating ERT! You're both right, don't worry! It's true the charges of one for the other! But there is also an additional truth, which you both hide. The PASOK abolished YENED by Law 1288/1982 and turned it into ERT2 and by Law 1730/1987 it created the single ERT and the Social Control Assembly of Acroats. In recent years, SYRIZA and New Democracy do anything to return ERT back to the regime of forced law, Law 383/1968. Greece, however, citizens, society as a whole, especially young people, but also our democracy, need an upgraded public television that operates with the rules of pluralism and pluralism, an ERT which respects the citizen as both its sponsor and a viewer. That is why we believe that the spirit and letter of administration and function must be radically changed. The involvement of the House in selecting the administration is the least, as has already been proposed and I agree with what Mr Kaklamanis said, because I was at the meeting and I supported his proposal. The Committee on Institutions must be able to discuss the activities of the public ERTs at least three times a year, but also many others, but for which political will is needed. Any institutional framework must, moreover, be assessed in the course of time, dealt with, synchronised with technological developments on the one hand, but, above all, with social needs and modern research. This also applies to the media and, above all, to their operation. And while the second part of the bill includes arrangements, solutions are missing. We insist that, for citizens' objective information, pluralism and pluralism and the quality of broadcasting programmes, which are crucial elements of our parliamentary democracy, there are three basic conditions. The instability of the sense of work security of the journalist and of the workers, first of all, is very important and strengthens their independence as officials. The sustainability of the instruments - private - and their legal function without loose ends and dependencies is, of course, an important factor, of course, the operation of ERT as a public body, not as a government instrument and finally - a fourth plus one - the effective functioning of the Independent Authority of the National Broadcasting Council, which, apart from the legislative powers, also has regulatory and control powers to ensure the wider public interest. We are already aware of what needs to be done by itself and by the government - and we expect decisions - but in support of the work and the achievement of its purpose is provided for in the Constitution and provisions of this law in the first part - which is the incorporation of the directive - which can, by their implementation, ensure the general public interest. Article 11 is important, since it refers to the need to ensure pluralism, but, unfortunately, the anticipated presidential decree is referred to as usual in the vague future. In addition, Article 30 increases the time from three to five days when an instrument is required to respond and correct the insult - the potential projection - to persons and institutions. And that is very important for the sustainability of the instruments. The pandemic, apparently, has overturned the data in the media. They need support, as do the vast majority of small, very small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the immediate pandemic support measures must be separated from the process of reviewing the institutional framework, which must be carried out in conditions of regularity. Specific measures to support media through transparent procedures, objective and defined criteria, are also acceptable to us and proposed. They must not, however, transfer the costs to the workers. So, firstly, instead of reducing staff with Article 1, we are proposing an integrated programme for subsidising work for the central, but also for all regional and local media, television, radio, newspapers and electronics. Any review of the lower desk of workers at central level must be carried out after the pandemic under normal conditions. Here I would like to tell you that the government is demanding - and there is a provision - that redundancies within the pandemic are banned from enterprises that are based. All enterprises in support programmes are prohibited from dismissing. Only parole can do. So that does not make sense, too, if the law is implemented. Secondly, a clear solution with rent, a clean facilitation to the payment of the annual rent, even by transfer. We even proposed extending the 10-year period to eleven with a gap in 2020. It is a clear solution and not those fraudulent ones that are proposed by depreciation. I must say that the high depreciations for investments in digital transformation, environmental protection - I must add - but also the health and safety of workers and the means for the other businesses must be applied in a general context, for which the Ministry of Finance must bring in and apply to everyone. We are proposing a similar lease arrangement - I mentioned earlier - for regional channels with the payment of part of the rent to DIGEA, implementation - of the PASOK law for the distribution of 30% of public advertising expenditure to regional and local media, total reintroduction of the provision for the public to publish announcements, declarations and competitions in the local and regional press. With these measures, we believe that there will be a basis for all instruments, without the need for particular darker and under the process table. After you have insisted, Minister, that the debate should not be postponed or even the application of the rule of Article 45 on the remuneration of ERT's high grades, we consider this to be a challenge when the vast majority of society is suffering. Article 49 extends the term of office of the members of the independent authorities, as I have pointed out, since the end of this period, instead of six months, until the appointment of young people - but that does not have a limit - to the adjournment. It's not acceptable. Affirmative Article 50. At last, even some of the problems of regional instruments have been heard, for which the Change Movement and I have personally insisted with government control, proposals and solutions that we have already tabled. Today we have tabled two amendments on radio-broadcasting. They are about covering legislative gaps. The first is for regions with geomorphological peculiarities which cause problems with the transmission of the mark and we propose the technical solution needed to address the problem. In fact, we have tabled a new improved statement from the one I have already handed over to the Minister. The second amendment concerns the possibility of reopening radio stations. Please accept, or otherwise justify its rejection. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Under the provisions of the first part of the draft law, Directive 2018/1808 of the European Union on audiovisual media services is incorporated into Greek law and I must say that most of the articles - not all - are in agreement with us. Article 8 requires a clear wording to ensure that censorship is not taken into account. Article 17 provides for the EMFF which is also financed from other resources instead of the Greek Film Centre which has reduced resources without justification. There are positive regulations, as I have said, many of which had already been incorporated into Greek national law by d.d. 109/2010, which had incorporated the directive amended by the debate. It strengthens the protection of physical, mental and ethical development of minors from inappropriate content, facilitates accessibility of disabled people to audiovisual media services. I would also like to remind you of the additional proposals made by the ESDP and mention two: first, for real-time substituting for live emissions to ensure accessibility of deaf, heavy persons and second - and a major proposal - by the EPP, by the National Broadcasting Council, a committee with the participation of the ESDC to monitor the implementation of the measures provided for by this Act on Disabled Persons and their access to audiovisual media. We expect, Minister, that your response to our proposals and our amendments, because for us it is important to find solutions, to be viable and to move forward with the issues facing society and citizens' problems. In the difficult period in which we are, we accept everything that reduces the position of the citizens, and of course, we exercise control, judge and fight against anything that affects the citizens, absolves the public interest and harms society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u10	Clean up, please, Stepma, because Mr. Synthrakis is in the Chamber. I should like to inform you that a second objection of anti-constitutionalism has been tabled by the Greek Solution, which has already been distributed, is a mere one. Both will be discussed together as soon as the special speakers are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u11	Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have been living in these days with snow is the theater of irrationality. The snowfall extreme phenomenon, rainfall extreme phenomenon, fires result from intense air. If you drown, if you burn, if you're excluded from the snow, it's your case. The state and its mechanisms only give directions to seafarers! The state is being exempted because of climate change, due to unforeseen and uncertain factors, as is the case with COVID when it is to young people who do not obey, when it is our people who are not disciplined. And all this for what? Just to hide the enormous deficiencies in the area of civil protection and health, planning and infrastructures for people's needs. The State, the government, has absolutely no responsibility for the concentration in the means of transport, for the shortcomings in the health system, for the lack of protection measures in the workplace. In reality, therefore, the government is seeking to hide under the carpet the nakedness of the current state mechanism, only because what it wants is to sacrifice the people's needs for a billion euros for NATO, canaries, clinicians, shipowners. It is a further reason for these workers to draw their conclusions and reject this policy which condemns them. And I come to the bill. The Communist Party of Greece voted against European Directive 13/2020, as amended in 2018, on the provision of audiovisual media services and thus its inclusion in Greek legislation. We disagree with the main direction of the directive, which is the complete commercialisation of audiovisual media, in order to enhance the profitability and competitiveness of European providers vis-à-vis their competitors and to maintain their position as a global leader in the digital economy, while helping European companies to develop their activities globally. In short, it sets the carpet in the European monopolies to act. This is incredible hypocrisy and censorship at the same time. These are the words that characterize the directive. You are making codes of conduct for consumer protection, essentially assimilating the good of information to a commodity consumed. That's hypocrisy. This, after all, is the logic of the European Union and your own incorporation of this directive. And who's gonna make these codes of conduct? But ethically it is shaped and applied by the bosses, the media owners, the providers of these services, i.e. "Yiannis candles, Yiannis drinks". Suffice a simple and quick look to see the full circumvention of the principle of proportional representation of parties, which provides that each party should be entitled to a promotion time in the news reports and political emissions at least equal to its election rate and the JRC, the only party that in 2018, i.e. with a government in SYRIZA, and in 2019 with a government in New Democracy, has a stable representation in the media below its election rate. And where's the PSE? Nothing, for the murder he doesn't know, he didn't see, he didn't hear anything at all. Clearly decorative his role. But it obviously acts as a principle of legalising the immunity of canalarchs and, of course, any delayed criticism of certain parties for the PSE is also hypocritical. The bill is not cut and stitched only to the demands and interests of big owners, canalarchs, businessmen in the media, it is also deeply reactionary. In the name of incitement to violence or hatred and the challenge of terrorist crime, this directive comes to ban any work on the Internet with progressive, radical content, provoking serious imprisonment for its artists - creators, even for users who post it, as is already the case in other countries. On the pretext that rules are actually being put into practice, people's freedoms are being targeted by the slump in any radical and progressive work, equating them to those who have racist, sexist or nationalist content. This directive is specifically designed and enriched by the implementation of the 'terror' in culture. Indeed, it increases the predicted penalty from three to five years for the offence of the public threat via the Internet that joined the criminal codes by the SYRIZA government. To remind you, of course, that the SYRIZA Government had supported this directive in the European Union. But violence and terrorism come from the European Union and the governments, which co-decide on its deep reactionary policy and not on the progressive artists, the working people's movement in general, which is called upon to counteract them in its struggles. The views of European institutions on radicalisation are well known. These provisions refer both to Article 8 and to Article 33(l)(c) which also refers to users who place audiovisual material on sharing platforms. The JRC is the only party that has declared itself voting against and requesting the withdrawal of these reactionary provisions. The efforts made by the Government of New Democracy, by SYRIZA, by other urban parties that it is making the directive subject to certain rules are not about protecting the good of information, but about protecting competition in this media and social media jungle. These are rules that will actually be exploited to have even more generalised censorship where truths and facts are said or heard and are not pleasurable to the system of power. What we have been living in ERT these days is another example of this situation that we are talking about with government orders and notes. All governments used ERT as a government liar. SYRIZA did it before, today the New Democracy does it, as it did before. But let's not go too far. Remember the picture that saw the publicity - and confirmed by the ERT workers themselves - how the Prime Minister's visit to Ikaria and the resignation of Lignade should be presented. This is a terrible attempt at censorship. It is right that all this finds the workers' reaction to the "Theme - Akroama" protesting last week and condemning the new authoritarian attack of the government by "Suppression, falsification and terrorism, this is Europe's democracy" and "we are terrorized by subjecting ourselves, by organizing and fighting to resist". The government was forced to recast these articles, but it does not change the substance of the regulations. In particular, Article 8 is amended so that it does not directly refer to the provisions of the European Terrorism and the second paragraph is removed from it. At the same time, however, the essence of censorship of artistic and generally projected audiovisual works is maintained, maintaining the first paragraph in Article 8 and removing only certain dictionaries. On the basis of the amended Article, audiovisual material shall be prohibited to include incitement to violence or hatred against groups of people or a member of a group, in particular on grounds of sex, race, colour, ethnic origin, nationality or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, membership of a national minority, race, disability, age or sexual orientation. This is a wording that directly refers to censorship, because a group of people can also be a fascist organisation. A group member can also be a fascist in a fascist organization, it can be a government, it can be employers' power of repression. So the essence does not change that progressive works can be persecuted and that in and from the reprinted layout the contents of the artistic work is gloated. Such examples, therefore, of suffocation and persecution have been found in Spain and Germany. The formalities referred to in the first paragraph shall be a copy of the operating conditions imposed by the platforms themselves. Besides, with such limitations providers have downloaded creations with political verse and anti-fascist content, following reports from other users that were usually members of fascist groups. In other words, the golden people who may have entered prison for their crimes, but on the Internet appear - who appear - and have the authority of the client, their opinion is always respected as "customers". Let's not forget the song "Adolf's grandchildren" in the days of the Golden Dawn trial that was banned at Youtube. The JRC is compiled with the position of the "Thematic - Acoustic" bodies who say that this law does not shield, but chokes freedom of expression and that art is not a public threat. The JRC invites artists, invites all workers who will cease to have access even to the masterpieces of progressive world art to condemn this new authoritarian and terrorist attack by the government and calls for the complete withdrawal of these articles. Of course, the reactivity of the draft law is not limited to those articles alone. Following a 'bazaar' before the last few months with the canalarchs and on the basis of the original draft law published, the Government reached the new 'gifts' to them. What are these? On the one hand, it gives them the annual instalment they have to pay to obtain a licence, and on the other, it further aggravates the position of workers in the media. In other words, it legalises employers' arbitrariness in this way. It is indeed challenging that the government gives 3,450,000 euros of the 3,500,000 euros, on the pretext that if they invest in the operating upgrade and equipment of the channels, then they will be a gravel! In other words, it gives them 98.57% of their obligations and obliges them to pay only EUR 50,000. Well, I wonder, aren't you embarrassed? In fact, aren't you really ashamed? You give them 3,450,000 euros and tell them to pay 50,000 euros! Let us know how many workers you have exempted from 97.57% of their debts! Tell me one! In conditions of health tragedy with over six thousand people dead in our country and with the public health system squeezing from the huge shortages, including schools and public transport, you are at the same time giving millions of euros to the Canadians, i.e. their owners who are big businessmen, shipowners, industrialists. You are giving them money that could be used to satisfy some of the enormous people's needs. And of course, that's not for the first time. You are being donated again, since you have already given them a lot of money for the various lists, to view messages for the pandemic. The Group of the Party of European Socialists in this draft law once again tabled the amendment which it had tabled on several occasions and was rejected by both the Government and the other parties. The amendment provides that messages related to the protection of public health, in particular with regard to the treatment of a pandemic, should be broadcast and registered in all the media, broadcasters, electronics and forms, completely free of charge and not in terms of advertising campaigns. Here, then, "behold the Rhodes" for all of you, for all of you who are cut off for transparency in public life. Vote her! I come back and remind you, of course, not you, you know that, but in the world that is watching us that the original plan was the money for the channel permit to be paid in three years. SYRIZA took it to ten years, and further reduced the advertising tax. On the one hand, he took them, and on the other hand he gave them it. But that's one side. The other side is the attack on the rights of workers in the media. Article 41 breaks down working rights in national and regional television stations. It abolishes the requirement of four hundred jobs at each national television station, enabling those working in a co-operating production company to be counted on them and do not belong to the permanent staff of the channel. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] 15%, i.e. sixty in four hundred, may be working in other companies linked to the television station or independent production companies with a specific project for the station or both. In practice, it means reducing staff television stations, particularly the techniques, while the case of employees of independent companies opens the way to contractors. It also identifies as full-time workers the twenty days per month and not twenty-five days, as full-time really should be. By doing this for workers in television stations, the way is to reduce workers by sixty. With mathematical accuracy, therefore, the way opens the way for the counter-working arrangement of working time, for the intensification of work, for the increase in unpaid working time and for the rotation of work, i.e. by putting from the window the elasticization of working relations, as you are doing now in the middle of a pandemic. Finally, with measures for media workers, Article 50 excludes providers of regional content, terrestrial digital television from the obligation to have that percentage for the production of cinematographic works. It does the same with Article 17, which uncontrolledly increases the salaries of the President, the CEO and the other Directors of the ERT, as well as of the RES.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Synatiakis, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. In relation to the Single Public Procurement and Care Organisation, Article 50 confirms the aid by means of State money from newspaper publishers. So that is precisely what the funding of state money, i.e. the people's money, the insurance contributions of those television stations owe the EDPS, when the canalarchs have already retained and not paid the employee's contributions, so they double the employee's contributions and, of course, the employers' contributions. It also gives fines and increases for debts for four whole years. On the basis of all this, Mr President, we shall therefore vote against in principle and with regard to the articles, it will also be seen during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u15	The special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u16	You have booked the country, empty Parliament, but you brought this bill today. So if the bill were to be discussed tomorrow, what would happen? What kind of premiere, and what kind of misery is he going through quickly and making the gifts to our fewers? What kind of madness is this? I really don't understand! So, did you have to make this great gift today that you want to do to the fewer people? Shouldn't the Members be in here to discuss this huge issue? Otherwise, we shut the country down! Listen a little, Minister, because things are very serious today. I do not know, Mr Levane, whether the Parliament and the Members of the New Democracy and Anti-Population have understood how unethical, unwilling, anti-Christian this bill you are bringing today! That is why the Greek Solution has also submitted and shared to all parties an objection of anti-constitutionality for what you include in here. Mr. Lebanon, have you read Article 8?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Heta, I can explain for the record that the Minister's name is Livanio. Mr Lebanese is Minister for Rural Development and Food.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u18	Excuse me, Mr. President! Mr. Lebanon, have you read what you say in here, what are you forbidden from doing the means? You say in "...sex, race, ethnicity... to include... incitement to violence or hatred, etc....a member of a national minority". What will a 'national minority' say, Mr Levanne? Does Greece have a national minority? Do we have in Greece, Mr. Parliamentary Representatives you are laughing at, a national minority? Go out and tell the voters of the New Democracy that the New Democracy is now legislating for a national minority. Say it! Does Greece have a national minority?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u19	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Bucketaut, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u21	Religious minority may exist! Since when there is a national minority in Greece and you go today to officially pass this monstrosity here! Tell us when our homeland has a national minority! Tell us to know! Tell the world that you, New Democracy, this patriotic party is legislating for ethnic minorities. Tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u22	Incorporating a directive is!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u23	Embedded? It is the first time since 1821, Minister, that the word "national minority". It's never happened before! If it's an incorporation, don't incorporate it! Greece has no ethnic minorities. Your bill commits a national crime! Haelo's pouch opens! You're talking about ethnic minorities. It's a disgrace, take it back! It offends our Constitution. Our Constitution does not define national minorities, Mr Lebanon! It offends our Constitution! You're talking about ethnic minorities. What's this now? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Did Mrs. Angelopoulou tell you? Do you include it in the celebrations of the two hundred years of Palaggenesia? What's this today? A present? You're talking about a national minority. Get it back! It's unbelievable! We wonder how the New Democracy brings such a bill! We've been expecting it from elsewhere. They're coming from elsewhere. Bravo! Really good! Outrageous! It's an anti-national, unethical, anti-Christian law! That's why the Greek Solution is asking for four years! We'll ban him when our turn comes! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because this abortion will be abolished, Mr Levanière! Because the devil is hiding in fine letters, Mr. Integration, and here you are talking about a national minority. Really embarrassing! All the rest really runs out. What can anyone say about this bill? There is a national crime going on today. Now we're going to the rest of the bill. Please think very much about what you will say in a very short time from now on when the objection of unconstitutionality will be discussed. You will answer to the Greek people! Legislation for a national minority! You are giving a serious attitude to the term 'national minority'. Greece has a religious minority, no national minority. Every Somalos, Congolese, Vietnamese and claim a national minority with what you do! You don't see how the project comes forward or you do not see it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u24	You're telling us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u25	That is what we say, you go out and say what you mean by the term 'national minority', what you mean in Article 8 by the term 'national minority'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u26	Thank God you're Greek! We're not!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u27	No, Minister, I didn't say you were not Greek! I say that either you missed or this part should not enter into the transposition of the directive. I didn't say you weren't Greek. I guess you're not listening! I'm responsible for what I'm saying, not what you understand in here. The term 'national minority' must come out, Minister! Take him out with a legal improvement. Remove the phrase "national minority" and leave the rest as they are. You go invited, you are invited to a channel, Mr. Levanne! After all, the officials and ministers of the New Democracy are happy to invite you. We don't have that joy, but we'll feel it later. We'll be here sometime and our turn to go. So let's just say folkly, you're getting caught by a hurricanes and you're getting away. You're a man! Do you know that the PSE is going to apologize to the channel and not to you? Do you know that the PSE will blame and impose a fine on the channel and not on the guest? Let's say, Mr. Scandalides, you're going somewhere and you're missing something, you say something. The channel's gonna pay it, not you! Where and where? So how is a TV station protected from each one who can say anything? How is it protected? Tell us how it's protected! We told you about fines. You're saying you're bringing in a bill. Cannot large channels pay the same fines as the county's small channels. What we have told you is to put the principle of proportionality. Depending on the turnover of each channel, a fine of 1.5% is imposed on the cigarette, Mr Scandalides! The 'TV-PATRA' cannot pay the same money in a fine with what it pays, for example, the 'MEGA'. This thing can't be done! Or the "TV" that has a turnover of 20,000 euros a year and two people work, two journalists. He can't pay 300,000 euros fine! How's he gonna pay for that money? Now we're going to the PSE. And here we're doing it backwards again. In other words, the EPP is currently working on some irregularity. Question: Why? Answer: Because it has not been set up in a body. Yes or no? Yeah. There's two members missing, you guys, there's two members less. And instead of starting from there, we give him more responsibilities. I mean, as we had a good conversation in the morning with our President - and I'll say it - you put the horse behind the cart. The horse's getting in front of the cart. You upside down start with the PSE again. And because we're talking about the PSE powers, we're saying you're giving him more powers and more powers. I am sorry, but I will tell you what the President of the EPP, Mr Koutromanos, said on 7 May 2020 in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. And these are the minutes of the Greek Parliament, not of the Greek Solution. The President of the PSE, therefore, said about the operation of the PSE on May 7 in this area, in the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency: "The feeling I have is that with the state of things that exist, as if someone had provided me, in other words, with water and flour and aspiring to make him a panoramic. It can't be done. If there is no record of the huge volume of television broadcasts, how will the PSE intervene to give a real answer on the substance... etc.''.'. So the man doesn't have inside, he doesn't have any staff, and we give him any more powers. What's that called? In our logic, these things don't fit. They really don't get stuck! Let's not talk about the channels now! We are talking, in other words, about the bill on television stations, we have spoken to committees four times, we have arrived in plenary today, we have spent tens of hours each to contribute to the best of tomorrow's media and the point is that the channels themselves have not played two minutes of reporting on this process. In what other country would the channels be kept indifferent to a legislature on the channels themselves? They didn't play anything! Why didn't they play anything? Because they're sure they'll get what they want at the end. They don't care. They will take money, because unfortunately you are legislating in favour of channel owners rather than workers. That's the reality. Minister, I presented you with a report on our mess black in Greece. Three decades I have served in this area. Twenty-eight years of badges I have as a journalist and I know how the system works. The Greek media are the most unworthy of the world. Research and 2018 figures from the "Pew Research Center" that took place between thirty-eight countries around the world showed that our country is in the last place regarding citizens' confidence in the media. Last ones! Heavens! But that makes sense! Don't you see what happens in the channels every day? I'm sorry, I'm sad to say it, because it's my place where I'm breast-feeding, and I've worked honestly in my life! I'm sorry to hear that. Only 18% believes that political issues are being presented objectively. 25% believes the news about the government and the officials. Just 25%! 22% thinks the news is broadcast to their right dimension. Just 22%! The other 78%, the opposite! 42% - that is, not half the Greeks - believe that the news they watch in the news releases is indeed the most important of the day. Everyone else thinks it's not the most important. You're a young man, we appreciate you very much and we've shown it to you and we've told you. It's time for you to make a difference! You're pressing another generation of people. Bring a new wind, if you can, in the system, to the media. Make the difference. I cannot now hear 'The ERT of SYRIZA' or 'The ERT of New Democracy'! It's the ERT of every government! I'm sorry to say it, but it's every government's beverage! What can we say now? On PASOK, it was PASOK's. It was a coup d'état, and it was a coup d'état. In the New Republic, SYRIZA, etc. Whoever gets power wants to run and control ERT for his own propaganda. Of course, you have the luxury, except for the ERT, to have everyone else now. That's another matter. This is where we don't take breath. Wherever you come back, you see New Democracy. There's brainwash! That's awesome! What do the other channels present? Whatever they want, or whatever they're told to present. Masks! The masks of irrationality! At first, I remember eight, ten months ago, they said, "Don't put masks on. It's forbidden. The masks are bad. The masks don't do." Then the masks started to do. Then the cloth masks did. Then they didn't do the cloth masks. I remember the spots on TV that said: "You'll cut off with the scissors, you'll get the fabric, you'll fold it in two, you'll put it from here, you'll wear it here." Then ‘These masks are forbidden. They don't do work. The others are doing the medicine!" Then they say two masks! Four masks, five masks, whatever they say every day! Terrorism in the world! masks, masks, masks! That's what happens every day when others are locked up in their house! They can't see their relatives, but on TV channels every Saturday night they have thirty people to jump! And they hug and kiss and drink! How's that, guys? I mean, the Greeks are going crazy at the end! Don't you understand? At the same time, they see the Chief of yours, our Prime Minister - because it is Greece - taking walks to Parnitha with no masks or making boats in Crete, pricking in Ikaria! But the other one's inside! "Don't move, don't breathe, mask up, and let me walk around!" They hear every day from the channels for the economic Armageddon coming - because that is what it will come - but they do not hear how the parties pay their loans, the 320 million euros! They don't listen! They only hear how they'll pay! You know what, Minister? I want you to forgive me today, because it's really my field and I'm hurting him and I'm sad! I want you to excuse me if I've taken some tons up. We in the Greek Solution attach great importance to morality. I think it is a point on which we differ, because you have completely immorally transformed the media into a mouthpiece of your policy and into your propaganda instruments. I think so. And at the same time, the people are suffering! Don't you understand that you shoot his brain every day at the same time as he's suffering, that experiences his loneliness and his depression locked in the house? The same time he's unemployed! The same time he's on job parole! At the same time that you've forced him to lock up in his shop, waiting for years to get his pension rhyme that worked forty years honest! At the same time that his children have left abroad to find another chance! That is why it is so important that the policy is based on morality and not on giving the same time as I described these millions in the channels! Because that's what you're doing! Today the canals had to pay 3.5m euros and pay 50,000 euros in ninety-six interest-free instalments! Ninety-six interest-free doses! Intake in the traffic charges too! Insert the tax adventurous taxi that the world owes! Why don't you do doses there, too? You're only in the loans of your parties. Do you have doses on the channels? Is the cosmopolis going to die? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, what will people do, in other words, when they are locked up in this way, to see that you are giving them EUR 3.5 million? I think we're out of hypocrisy here! And I'm running in time. You support, you say, the social state and the rule of law. In what way? I will tell you what will happen on the channels, I know the work for twenty-seven years. There was a limit that he should have four hundred more people will get external partners! Sixty, seventy, eighty! Every channel! If you make these multiplyings with 1,500, 2,000 euros a month each, on every channel the seventy people, go to 150,000 euros and a year is 2 million euros a gift! A present and that! It's lowering the cost! Also, with regard to the increases to the president of the ERT and the increases to the president of the RES, their remuneration can be reached, he says, those of the President of the Ice Bay! We're talking about pluralism in this bill. That's where the stones laugh. Excuse me very much, but what pluralism? What ethics, what pluralism, what validity are we talking about? You think people don't see what's going on in the channels? Does he not see the reports that promote blocking every day in our country with illegal immigrants? Does not he see the reports preparing the ground for The Hague's new national crime? Every day there is a report "The Hague is the only solution". Silence where it's the only solution! You didn't tell us what The Hague is the only solution! You reach it in "no further" and then "The War or The Hague". And of course, The Hague! Who wants war? That's what you do every day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Should we talk about the reports that take it from here and there every day artificially about the mandatoryity of the vaccine?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u28	Slowly, Mr. Heta, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u29	I'll be out in a minute and a half, Mr. President. And that's what you're doing. You say that 'you will not be able to travel', 'you will not go to movies', 'vaccination certificate'. Slow down, you guys. Law, Mr Levanie, with an obligation on the channels to invite representatives of all parties. Law! The Change Movement - let the Greek Solution - cannot be represented, at least according to its percentages, its MPs and its power! Same for SYRIZA, the same for Mera25, the same for the Communist Party or the Greek Solution! Mr. Levanie, do you know we haven't been to a channel? Mr. Bukkaro, I haven't been to a TV station in a year and a half. Thirty years of journalist, and I haven't been invited by one who knows everyone! They tell me, "Kosta, what do we do? We can't invite you. You're a good guy, we know you, but we can't call you. What should we do?’ And we're going to the ERT scandal, Mr. President. I want this to be heard, because I know you're very sensitive. This scandal concerns the reward fee set by the ERT, unless the ERT's reward fee is paid. The PPC account, which says "ERT: 35 euros", comes to us. If you don't pay it, Greeks, this thing will be seized and auctioned. PPC and companies that will supply electricity will send the lists to the ERT with those who did not pay the fee, so that they can proceed to seizures! Do you understand what you're going to do? To those who don't pay the ERT payroll, will you cut their current and auction them? That's not happening! I think - and I'm closing up with it - that we're not on the right track. Mr Levanie, you know - and I say this honestly - that I consider you to be an honest man and an honest politician. Get the word 'national minority' out of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u30	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u32	What are you asking for now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u33	For some clarifications on issues that touch the most sensitive strings of the Greek people, Mr President. We need to clarify...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u34	Dear Christos, because you will speak about unconstitutionality and the unconstitutionality of the Greek Solution is based on Article 8, please - I will give you some time longer - to develop this thing as well. We don't have to stop the flow now. Mrs. Bakada's only left.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u35	I did not mean, anyway, to refer to persons or parties. It's for the Otta's. But I think some things that have been heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u36	You will tell them in your speech on unconstitutionalism. On this article is an objection of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u37	I know, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u38	Don't interrupt the flow now, please, so we can finish early tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u39	All right, Mr President, but these must be answered immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u40	I agree with you because I have read this article. There is no national minority recognized. That's another thing. Mrs Bakadima has the floor now. Here, Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with Article 8 for another reason. I will begin with Article 8 and the point that has caused a storm of reactions from people of art, and as a result we have statements from the Minister that we will remove any element that could leave the suspicion that we are legislating a kind of censorship today. It seems, then, that - although we are waiting to see precisely the legislative techniques to put back in more detail - that, for now, the corporation that you had opened is closed, because - let us be clear - all these reactions that have started, nor have they started from an unscrupulous reputation nor from a micro-political complaint of a kind. Both the 'Support Art Workers' and other unions have denounced throughout the past few days the attempt to frustrate the art, since in its earlier form Article 8 of the draft law was directly linked - and we should be able to say exactly the way things are - with the 'terror', allowing arbitrary persecutions and convicts of artists from those who could decide what 'incitement to terrorism' means. We think that it is a good thing that the amendment is a first step. I will repeat that we expect to see the final text. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, with the change, with whatever modification, even if Article 8 is removed entirely from the legislation under discussion, your initial political intention is not cancelled, since this move is now confirmed by the intrinsic political desire of the New Democracy to impose restrictions and reduce the artistic freedom, by shrinking the autonomy of artists and the ability to express the people of art. And, of course, as we talk about incorporating a directive, we cannot comment on the small, but rather on the noticeable difference between the original text of the directive and your own transposition, as is done in this draft law by adding the word 'in particular'. We are talking about a word that came from you - it was not in the original text - and a word that widens the case vendals to actually lead to exclusions and to the impoverishment of freedom of art. Let us now move on to the other articles in the bill, which together consists of fifty-four articles, which are divided into two parts. The first concerns the transposition of the Community directive and the second concerns the other provisions. The Directive consists of eleven chapters and thirty-six articles. Its aim is to harmonise national legislation on audiovisual media services, to coordinate certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the provision of such services. So let us move on to see some of the articles that remain part of the directive a little closer. There is a great deal of talk about the protection of minors, which we all agree should be strengthened. However, we do not see sufficient guarantees as there are enough grey points left in the text we have in our hands, for example in Article 9. Audiovisual media services which may be harmful to the physical, mental or moral development of minors shall be provided in such a way as to ensure that under normal circumstances minors do not listen to or see them. Really, how do you define normal conditions? How can it be ensured that this provision is implemented and finally protected by minors and young children from all that they can see on Greek television and which, unfortunately, cannot be said to be of quality? Let's go a little bit further. The same article states that it is forbidden to present minors of criminal offences. By way of exception, minors subject to the cases referred to in the preceding subparagraph may be present, provided that they are necessary for public information and do not harm the individuality of the minor. Don't you think there's a contradiction? On the one hand, we have the ban on the presentation of a minor offender and, on the other hand, we have exceptionally allowed it to be presented in the same article. Let's go down to the accessibility provisions. I have said so to the Commission, and I say to the House. By invoking the will and the good option of media service providers, which we say must constantly and progressively increase accessibility and develop plans for this, this does not help, preserve and does not come to define and facilitate the accessibility of our fellow citizens with disabilities, which I believe is unnegotiable and must be made mandatory for all of us. We move on to Article 17 which will have a tax of 1.5% on Netflix. I would remind you, as I did in committee - and we will reintroduce an amendment that we have tabled at previous meetings - the amendment of Mera25 on taxation of large multinational colosses that are enriched by services offering within our country of this kind, without paying a single euro for taxes. We, therefore, with this amendment, what we say from the outset is that horizontal taxation of FANGS - Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Google and Spotify - with 4% should be regulated. It is a step that has already been taken in several countries, in the United Kingdom, in France and not just in France. The amount to be collected from this horizontal taxation is to be allocated to the cultural sector, an area which has been ruthlessly affected by the pandemic we are still going through. I would also ask the Minister to accept the amendment, but also to support it, because we are not talking about a single budgetary measure, but about a step of equality, equality, justice and democracy. Moving on to the second part of the bill, we can no doubt see that it is a set of arrangements - except for some corrective changes that have taken place mainly because of the reactions - a boulevard that creates a government's gift to the media, which not only supports it over the whole period, but does it by covering the scandalous management of the pandemic on its part, both at the level of public health and at the level of the economy. In addition, the second part of the bill also comes to make a gift through a series of rhetorical arrangements in the PSE, ET and the RES. Let's go to article 41. The government may not have abolished the obligation to work for four hundred workers per channel, but according to the new provision, the four hundred staff working in related enterprises, such as the production companies, even though this may not exceed 15% of the total staff. In other words, other colleagues have said so before - we are talking about less than sixty people for every instrument. So then we go to a real number of three hundred forty workers per channel, not four hundred. So we can only imagine, once this bill comes into force after it has been published in FEK, how many workers will be on the road and how many families will find themselves in an extremely difficult situation, especially given that we are also going through a pandemic that has struck and caused extremely difficult financial consequences for all citizens. In Article 42, there is a 100% discount - in fact, it is 98.6% - on the money that the channels have to pay for 2020 as a price for national licenses. In particular, the Government comes to reduce the dose that each channel has to pay for 2020 from just EUR 3,5 million to EUR 50 000, and additional facilities are available for channels that can now pay in more instalments the price for the 2021 instalment. This is a clear gift to the fewer and systemic media owners. I'm sure the channels were hit in the pandemic period and, above all, regional of course. But surely you supported them with the Pecha lists. The channels and other media in general received money to show messages about public health, which should be done unfamiliarly and not to discuss huge sums that could have been channelled and given to people working in sectors that have been hit. We cannot give the channel owners at almost 100% the amount of the annual instalment and people working in the retailer, the focus, the tourism sector must go through 3 to 4 euros a day, at best if these people can get 534 euros of the aid and have not worked with one day, two days or undeclared work, and so they have not received these 534. You, instead of helping and supporting them, choose to present the amount of this year's licence to the channels. Article 43 also makes this clear in favour of the six major television stations with regard to future licences for on-site subscriptions. Article 45? Another gift to your blue executives. Full liberalisation of the remunerations of the ERT and RES leaders, as well as increased wages for ERT staff, as the remuneration will now be determined by CRAs. It is also laid down that the PSE, by its own decision, may determine the amount of additional remuneration of all committees and working groups to be set up. In other words, there is the possibility of a high level of remuneration for blue executives serving and helping the government to mislead the Greek public, the Greek citizens, when our fellow people - I said it before - are struggling and really trying to get through day by day, to support their family. It turns out there's money, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, but there's only one for your own kids. The rest of the people will live trying to overcome the pandemic with your own charity and with whatever support you want to give them. The ideology of the New Democracy, the ideological orientation of the legislation under discussion and no one can say otherwise. Article comes to build and add to the structure that Mr. Petsas started with his lists. Intent to curtail artistic freedom, gifts to small-scale and blue executives, who best apply the requirements of the government and the New Democracy, whether this is the strangling of pluralism, with the New Democracy taking the lion's share in the time of projection, and the PSE to regard it as normal, a PSE, which, let us be honest, has ceased to perform its constitutionally institutionalised role for a long time, but has done with great zeal the government's instructions. On the other hand, we cannot fail to mention the manipulation of ERT with unsubstantiated instructions on the non-promotion of timeliness, such as the journey by the Prime Minister to Ikaria or the footage that showed Mr Lignade next to the Prime Minister's couple, which clearly demonstrates one thing: your racing and unspeakable attempt not only to control the news but also to manipulate the collective memory of the citizens. Minister, as I have said - and I am closing down with this - from the first meeting of the committee, you deserve congratulations and the New Democracy must give you not only because you are taking your predecessor's steps faithfully, but above all because you are able to fly the ball in such a way as to disorientate the debate from the real facts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute. Your tolerance, Mr President. You managed to limit the public debate to just a few parts of the bill, which are very important on the one hand, but on the other hand tomorrow morning, given the very small importance they gave the resources in this bill, few will have been informed and will know the gifts you have made, the discounts and the extra fees. We as a PART25 will always be here to talk about all the things you want not to hear, to shout out the need for pluralism, which does not interest you, nor do you wish it, to highlight the blue attempts to legitimise anti-democratic and anti-constitutional practices, which are the victims of citizens, but also democracy itself. And in these efforts to be sure, Minister, and to be sure, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you will always find us in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u42	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have told you, we are now entering the debate of the two objections of unconstitutionalism. The House will decide and implement paragraph 2 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. As you know, they have the right to speak with the speaker, the vice-president and the Members of Parliament or the parliamentary representatives and, of course, the Minister responsible, for five minutes each. We will start with Mrs Adamopoulos from Mera25, then we will go to Mr. Mylonakis from the Greek Solution as sayingrs and continue with the Communist Party, the Change Movement, SYRIZA, New Democracy and the Minister. Mrs. Adamopoulou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. As colleagues see in the document distributed to them, we have objected to anti-constitutionalism on Articles 4(3), 4(5), 11, 17(6), 20(3), 31(5) and 6 and 35 of the bill. We consider these articles to be contrary, to be in direct conflict with Article 101a of the Constitution on personal and operational independence governing the PSE as an independent authority. This is because we see the ERR being removed from key competences to monitor and supervise audiovisual media service providers. These powers must belong - and belong under the Constitution - to the PSE which is subject to parliamentary scrutiny and is mentioned under the Rules of Procedure of the House in the relevant Committee on Institutions and Transparency. We now see these responsibilities being removed and assigned to the Secretariat-General for Communication and Information, which is coordinated and accountable to the relevant Minister. That is to say, we see that these powers are conferred on the executive authority, and in this way, on many issues, the PSE should now be mentioned not in the competent House but in the relevant Minister. The role of the PSE is therefore being violated, which should be the role of ensuring transparency and pluralism. This, of course, - I am going to make a very brief reference and I am ending - we see it not to be implemented because we have an unacceptable and anti-democratic embrace of the PSE with the executive, since it does not exercise its role of supervising, controlling and imposing sanctions on the means which have excluded the opposition - particularly the parties of the Olive Vulture - from television representation, and so many issues have been raised democratically. We therefore call on the opposition to vote in favour of our objection and ask the Minister to withdraw the contested provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u44	And I, Mrs. Adamopoulou, and for your briefing. We are now moving on to the second saying that on behalf of the Greek Solution Mr. Antonios Mylonakis is on behalf of the Greek Solution. Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Greek Solution, Minister, submitted an application for unconstitutionality for Article 8 of this bill: Prohibition of incitement to violence or hatred and public provocation to terrorist crime. It says that audiovisual media services must not involve incitement to violence or hatred against a group, etc. In this context, it refers to membership of a national minority. The Greek Constitution, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, does not speak of ethnic minorities in Greece. However, because it was also heard by the government majority that it was incorporating the directive, I would like to remind you that other countries of the European Union have ethnic minorities. Greece has no national minority. In Greece, a single minority is recognised in our country and this is the Greek Muslim minority. So only a religious minority. Why, then, are we opening the shackle of Halos? I would also like to say that for ethnic self-determination SYRIZA is also speaking. In other words, the New Democracy is coming to agree with the Civic Opposition to ethnic self-determination - and we all know where it is going - and now it is talking clearly about a national minority. What's that? They are butter on the bread of the fanatical Muslims of Thrace, who speak of a Turkish minority. Let's not play with words. So the New Democracy, the Government with Erdogan, agrees? That is why we are calling, Minister, and I think it is very simple and sensible and serious what we say, very seriously, is a national matter, immediately withdrawing from Article 8 that phrase. Nothing else. In other words, the words 'qualification of a member of a national minority'. We have no reason to put into our homeland problems which were not until yesterday, which are trying to exist today and they will become worse tomorrow. And we call on the National Representation to vote in favour of this request for unconstitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u46	We are now continuing in reverse time. Mr. Ioannis Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, we agree with the objection of unconstitutionalism put forward by the Group of the European Parliament in the sense that the existing provisions of the draft law are further aggravating the situation regarding the control of the broadcasting landscape and that there are even more responsibilities for the government and the Minister responsible. What we do not adopt as a reason is that today under the existing regime there is any independence of the National Broadcasting Council either functionally or personally. There is no independence at all. None. At the moment, the National Broadcasting Council is operating, as Manolis Synthrakis rightly said, as a principle of legalising the immunity and arbitraryness of the canalarchs, on the basis of the institutional framework that exists. Some time ago the President of the PSE came to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the Parliament and presented information, a report from the PSE and for the years 2018 and 2019. It was clear in these reports what the distribution of political parties is. The lion's share - and above - the respective government party and bipartisanism and all the others very much down, even from those percentages which they have on the basis of their election rate, particularly the JRC. What's the PSE doing, Minister? Let's tell you that. It fortifies behind an unacceptable decision by the Council of State - it is Decision 27/2020 - which was adopted to cancel fines imposed on channels for the evacuation and incorrect distribution of television time with regard to the JRC. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS Athanasios, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] This decision of the Council of State then came to annul the fines and formulated a case-law whereby the distribution to political parties should not be made on the basis of their percentage, but on the basis of what is considered by journalistic ethics as events worthy of transmission. The definition of subjectivity and arbitraryness reflected in the case-law of the Council of State. And what's the PSE doing? It fortifies behind this decision to do absolutely nothing. Even this decision simply imposed that the reasoning be differentiated and the PSE is at the moment doing absolutely nothing. It works essentially as a principle of legalising the immunity of canalarchs. This is about functional independence. Now we're going for personal independence. How was the current composition of the National Broadcasting Council? By agreement of three parties: SYRIZA, New Democracy, KINAL. With a deal and a bargain. That's how four fifths were formed. Then SYRIZA withdrew his trust. And what have these parties agreed again during the constitutional revision? The EPP should not be elected on the basis of four fifths, but on the basis of three fifths. Even more dependence on the PSE than the respective government and possibly on a "text" party at a time. We therefore support the objection of unconstitutionality. We do not agree at all that today the PSE has some independence, and even because we are talking about incorporating a directive of the European Union, we take into account the fact that these directives even outweigh the Greek Constitution. That's right. The European Union's law has all co-decided to overcome even the Greek Constitution. In relation to the objection of the Greek Solution, we are asking for the full withdrawal of Article 8 and Article 32 which are relevant. It is essentially the application of the "terror" to the internet, culture and art and the adoption of provisions that can lead to criminalisation. They come from the so-called "anti-racist law" under Minister Athanasios, who is currently presided over. It is a Euro-Union directive which embodies and enables, for example, a post or an artistic project to say that capitalists are parasites of this to be criminalised. We therefore consider Article 8 to be completely withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Gioka. Before giving the floor to Mr Scandalidis, as a local Member of Lesvos, I would like to inform the House of a loss that concerns the Communist Party of Greece. Stavros Skopelitis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, left life. He was a man moderate and modest. He was chiefly polite and concerned throughout his term - for thirteen consecutive years he was a Member of Lesvos - but then he was interested in the problems of Lesvos. He was a man who was very loved in Lesvos because of his kindness, modesty and faith. The condolences to his family and the Communist Party. Mr Scandalides has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I very much welcome what you said about this Member. Parliament must pay homage to people who have given their lives for ideals and struggles, regardless of any political or other disagreements it may have with them, because these people are denouncing Greek political life. As far as these objections are concerned, I have a general opposition to putting an objection of constitutionality very easily. It is right that colleagues have said earlier that the National Broadcasting Council does not perform its role, and this law simply weakens it even more. This is not a constitutional issue, so this, if you like, documentation of the objection of unconstitutionality has issues of clarity as its legal and institutional text to support such a serious objection of unconstitutionality. In fact, therefore, we cannot vote for it. We are simply pointing out - and we will say it in our place then, because it is not now the time to place it - that the operation of the National Broadcasting Council is anything but an Independent Authority function. It is getting worse in some way through the articles of this bill, not only by an article, but we cannot support an objection of unconstitutionality. On the question of Article 8, the object of the Greek Solution is purely political and not legal or institutional. It does not invoke any provision of the Constitution that is being violated. That is why it cannot be accepted in principle. Take note, however, of the substance of the matter, Mr Minister. I'm addressing you, so you can solve it. It could, in fact, be argued that the wording at issue is a surplus, as the objective is covered by the term 'national origin', which exists in a previous paragraph. In that sense, however, for political and not constitutional reasons, the term ‘qualification of a member of a national minority’ could be deleted. There is therefore room for correction to avoid misinterpretations at the level of foreign policy, not the violation of the Constitution. It is a pretext for the course of all the last decades of our foreign policy. I shall therefore hear either a wording prohibiting national, religious or other discrimination and whether, for the purposes of incorporating the directive, the term'minority' should be left to clarify that it concerns a religious minority. If you make this correction, there is no reason to discuss anti-constitutionalisms and such. We do not accept the request for unconstitutionality, but we call on the government for foreign policy reasons and, if you like, terminology used by Greece in its international relations, that this term does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalidis. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Spyros Lappas will speak. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, thank you very much. As to the objections, I shall begin with this remark made by Mr Scandalidis. The fact is that the objections to anti-constitutionalism are being discussed and limited within the Parliament's interna corporations, that is, within Parliament's House and cannot be judiciary. However, this does not impair the legal, political and constitutional importance of the complaints in question. The objection of Mera25, Mr President, is manifestly legal and valid, because the Constitution has taken care of the direct control of the state under which radio and television is placed, as an exception to media units - it is not the press form, only for radio and television, this direct state control - which is more than that of state supervision. Indeed, this state supervision essentially includes pluralist information and objective transmission of information and as added by the Constitution, as well as speech and art products. I say this and emphasise it 'language and art', to tell you later about Article 8. Who will, however, exercise this direct control of the state, as stated in Article 15(2) of the Constitution? Again, the Constitution takes care of it in Article 15(2), and it is the PSE. He's definitely analyzing it. And while the bill in Article 33 reiterates and broadens the PSE's responsibilities, in the conclusion of the same article it says that responsibilities may be transferred to the General Secretariat of Information, under the control, supervision and accountability of the relevant Minister. There is no doubt, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a transfer of powers from an institution provided for by the Constitution to an executive body. Listen, because it is very important - and I refer to the Minister - that is: Mr Levanie, the competence of the PSE cannot be intervened with any other body, organisation, member, group, etc. of any other authority. The PSE's competence is exclusive. This will only exercise the direct control of the State as to whether the constitutional condition of pluralist information and objective information is complied with. If the state wanted to intervene and improve things, the executive would have to do so at the EPP level. It cannot be regulated by law that, together with the PSE, there is one other body - the General Secretariat of Information, in this case - which is accountable and controlled by the relevant Minister. It's something that directly offends the Constitution. There's no doubt about it. So the objection is legal and well-founded. In fact, on this issue, Mr President, too many decisions have been adopted between 2007 and 2014 by the Council of State, which give about what I told you at the moment, and that is where I am blocking the information to tell you. That's the one. Secondly, with regard to Rule 8, Mr President, we have been convinced that this is a poorly formulated and legally inappropriate article. It has created many problems, particularly paragraph 2, for which, Mr President, I should also like to address the Minister, Mr Livano. Mr Levanière, you know that, when an individual right is offended and, in fact, fundamental, such as the right to expression, speech, art, etc., which is based on Article 14 of the Constitution, according to which censorship is prohibited, in order for there to be any wording that conflicts with this provision, it must be provided by our Constitution as a restrictive term. It cannot come from another source of law, such as Community law or international law, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Lappa, have you booked your microphone by mistake? Look at the microphone and repeat your last thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u53	Yes, sir. I was saying, Mr President, that, without the Minister seeking it, as was set out in Article 8, he has raised a huge issue that has been debated for decades in our country about the hierarchy of the rules of law. So, what is the first role, what is primary law, is at the top of the pyramid of the rules of law, the Constitution, Community law, international law? So I answer. As far as fundamental individual rights are concerned, the Constitution and its regulations have a key role to play. No other source of law, whether it is EU or international law, can challenge fundamental rights. So it was obliged by the Minister to do a recast of such a thing as Article 14 of the Constitution that there was no shadow. There can be no censorship and freedom of expression and products of speech and art cannot be controlled. I would like to tell you, Mr President, this. This pyramid hierarchy of rule of law was first set in the Middle War by the huge legal personality of Hans Kelsen, who was very conflicting with Schmit, whose ideas were the foundation of the development of the ideology of the third Reich. So we should not be absolute in that. When it comes to speaking, I will develop this issue further, Mr President. However, it is important that Merra25's objection is manifestly, I repeat, legal and well-founded. In no case shall it be allowed on the legislative initiative to become the competence of the PSE with respect to any issue with any other service. The Constitution explicitly states that its competence and responsibility are exclusive and this has been included in many provisions and in many decisions of the Council of State and other courts. In conclusion - and I close - SYRIZA supports this objection, because it is both valid and legitimate, regardless of what Mr Kastanides said that the objections of unconstitutionality in Parliament remain in the interna corporis of the House and cannot be subject to judicial review. I think that in some way anyone who appeals against this provision against which the complaint is directed will be able to thrive, because it is both legal and well-founded. So we support it and stick to it. As to the objection of Greek Solution, Mr Kastanides is right. The term 'national minority' is a surplus, Mr President, because it is already covered by the term 'national origin'. It is a misguided, in any case, provision and should not be the case. When we transfer a directive, we don't transfer articles. It has its spirit and content, which is justified by the provisions of our Constitution. So, how's it going to be? So if that term is removed, I think that the provision does not have any other problem, nor will we have any other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Cappatos has the floor for the unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the objection of non-constitutionality of Mera25, as you know, the competence of the National Broadcasting Council as an independent authority, in accordance with Article 15(2) of the Constitution, refers to the express wording of the provision in the control and enforcement of administrative sanctions on radio and television, which also takes the form of a prior authorisation regime. The forecasts of the draft today fully respect this competence, including those contained in the objection of unconstitutionality, because they fall within two categories. Firstly, whether they concern control issues, in which case the relevant competence is conferred on the PSE entirely and exclusively, which is not affected by the competence of the Secretariat-General for Communication and Information on monitoring and monitoring the operation of audiovisual media. For example, Articles 4(3) and 5 with regard to the simple notification to the relevant Minister of the ERC Decisions and 31(5) and (6) with regard to the simple notification by the ERC to the relevant Minister and the European Commission of the list of video-sharing platform providers. Secondly, they are either not about control issues, but about general issues which under any circumstances do not fall within the constitutional competence of the PSE. For example, Article 35 on initiatives to promote media education, Article 11 on measures to ensure pluralism, freedom of speech and cultural diversity, Article 17(6) and 20(3) on the submission to the European Commission of data and other reports on the application of European legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time this draft law on the PSE confirms and strengthens its role in implementing the rules, with a view to pluralism, cultural diversity, consumer protection, equal treatment, accessibility by people with disabilities and the orderly functioning of the market. I therefore believe that this objection is rejected, should not be voted on, because it is unacceptable and unfounded. On the second objection to the Greek solution, ladies and gentlemen, if you read the European directive, you will see that in the provision of Article 8 of the bill on the prohibition of incitement to violence or hatred, it is noted that the wording of Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, as already in force in our country, is precisely the same as primary law. From there on, in what has been said by KINAL, I imagine the Minister will have the same answer, so on behalf of us, we believe that both objections are unfounded and must be rejected. We are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u56	I've just been informed by the services. Mr. Cappato, did you speak as a rival or as a...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u57	Mr Cappatos spoke as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u58	Good. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor. The Minister always speaks last. But it would normally have to be prioritised, but it doesn't matter now. Okay, if he didn't talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u59	I shall speak last of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u60	You can speak, Mr. Bukowo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u61	Has everyone been closed, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u62	Wait a minute. The parliamentarians didn't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u63	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u64	They spoke as co-chairs, Mr President, of the other parties' parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u65	We talked as congressors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u66	Let me see, Mr. Giokas, what did he talk about? The sayings are the ones who make the objections, and they are the ones who are against the objections. So the Parliamentary Representatives have not spoken? You, Mr. Scandalidis, what did you talk about? As a parliamentary representative. So we are at the stage of the parliamentary delegations. You, Mr. Mylonakis, would you like something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u67	I would like to say that either as contributors or as parliamentary representatives. The European Parliament did not say either. If everyone wants to talk from New Democracy, what are we going to do? So, Mr. Hetas should speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u68	Please read Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary representatives are different. He's in the position of the Chiefs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u69	Please, Mr. Bukoro. If I do not say it well, say on a point of order that I am not saying it well. Well, Article 100 is very clear. They speak, after the sayings and the contributors, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are finished, and if they are not here, the parliamentary representatives. That's it. Since Mr Scandalides spoke, Mr Lappas spoke and so on, Mr Giokas also spoke, you will speak and then the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I have not answered the objection of Greek Solution. I only spoke of ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u71	As a parliamentary representative, who will speak? Didn't you speak as a parliamentarian? We'll set them up. Here, you have the floor, and then Mr. Bukokouros follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to agree that Article 8 is extremely problematic. Even the retreat made by the Minister at the last moment we think it is an ineffective and pretextful withdrawal, because this article opens up the coup d'état for preventive and repressive accountability even in works of art, without guarantees without legal guarantees, even when a historical truth is due to emerge. I shall set an example in my speech. In relation to the objection, we consider this objection to be a micro-party communication crown on behalf of the Greek Solution. It is a clear patriotism, and this is because, on the one hand, they say that it is inconsistent with the Constitution, on the other hand, there is no provision specifically referring to the issue. So the question is: To begin with, what article in the Constitution is this provision going against? Not to mention that there are over-legislative rules, in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution, which go beyond the Constitution and which Greece has signed over-legislatively. I am referring to many international treaties, such as the International Treaty of Lausanne, such as the Convention of Serbs, such as the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, such as the International Covenant on Civil Rights, Economic and Cultural Rights, which deals with related issues and, of course, with Article 5 of the Constitution, which is clearly stated, introducing any prohibition of discrimination. So we believe that this is a specole on behalf of the Greek solution. We're not getting into this game. In any case, we reject the objection as invalid. In relation to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative's reply to our objection, what you said is essentially that there is a conflict of competence between the National Broadcasting Council and the General Secretariat for Communication and Information, because you spoke about the monitoring and operation of audiovisual media. That is purely the responsibility of the PSE. It's called the Constitution clearly. Monitoring and operation is part of the supervisory and control role that the PSE must play and which, in practice, does not perform this role. As for the reply of the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, while on substance he agreed and accepted that there are problems of arbitraryness and failure to perform the functions of the National Radio Board, on the other hand he referred to the 'interna corporis' in relation to objections. With this logic to abolish the procedure of objections of anti-constitutionality in the face of bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u75	Wait a minute, Mr. Mylonakis, let me get this straight. From the Greek Solution, did the word speak only? Didn't the Parliamentary Representative speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u76	I didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u77	Good. He's not Mr. Villard. Is that you, Mr. Mylonakis? Well, you have the right too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I think that some of my fellow Members are over-due sometimes and are distorting what we are saying. The Parliamentary spokesman - whom I respect - of the Mera25 for all the others contained in Article 8, other than exactly what the Greek Solution has touched on. And because he said that he does not refer to any article in the Constitution, I will answer one question: Where do you refer to a national minority in the Constitution? Will you tell me an article? So no article in the Constitution refers to a national minority. And as Mr. Lappas quite rightly said, but Mr. Scandalidis, this is not just an anti-constitutional issue. It's a matter of foreign policy. It's a deep political matter. We are neither patriots nor voters nor nothing. We are not talking about these issues, and we are not interested in them, because the whole world knows our views. We want the term 'national minorities' to be removed in this bill. There is no national minority in Greece. I think the government will understand it and withdraw it. It's simple. In other European Union countries there may be national minorities, not our home country. If you took it, you copied it all well and good without knowing it, we give you a little alibi. Otherwise it means that you admit and accept, gentlemen of the Government, the New Democracy - and the whole New Democracy according to the so-called - that there is a national minority in Greece and you must tell us what that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Katsi, why do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u81	Since you have taken the procedure so that, apart from the electors, the parliamentary representatives will also speak, I am asking for the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u82	Let me explain. This is where we apply Article 100. What does Article 100 say? The two parties that objected, the Mera25 and the Greek Solution first speak. It is the government - they spoke - and then the Parliamentary Representatives. From you, Mr. Lappas spoke. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u83	As an adversary, not as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u84	He is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u85	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u86	Wait a minute. Mr. Lappas spoke of you. They came here and told us that on behalf of SYRIZA Mr. Lappas will speak. It's over. There has been an arrhythmia in the face of the change in the Bureau, which may have led to this confusion. But that's the turn. Here's to finish the line: The saying on behalf of the government, the vice-president, the Parliamentary representatives and the Minister. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, what you are saying has been explained by the previous President-in-Office, Mr Kaklamanis, who are the speakers, who are the contributors, how the Presidents of the parliamentary groups speak and how the parliamentary representatives speak. I think a procedure has been followed. I don't understand why there's this ambiguity and this turbulence that creates false impressions if you want. The issues raised concerning unconstitutionalism were sufficiently answered by the New Democracy’s rival. I would like to point out what I would like to say about the objection of non-constitutionalism of Mera25 and the responsibilities of the Council of State, is that these are defined in paragraph 2 of Article 15 of the Constitution. It is the leading provision regulating the concession made by the State to this instrument called "National Radio Council". This needs to be discussed, because, on the basis of this constitutional provision, the application for non-constitutionality was submitted by Mera25. There, then, are very clear competences. He is talking about control and enforcement of administrative sanctions by the National Broadcasting Council. What does the law say? First of all, with regard to control issues, which are really the responsibility of the National Broadcasting Council, the Act confers these powers entirely and exclusively on the National Broadcasting Council, which is why we say that its role is strengthened. It is certainly not affected by the responsibility of the General Secretariat for Communications and Information to monitor the operation of audiovisual media. We did not see such sensitivities expressed during the days of the previous government, when registers were created, when licensing procedures began, when legislative initiatives were taken. Sensitivity on occasion and dependency on the position and the wing that we are sitting in Parliament is not a convincing sensitivity. In addition, the other provisions in the Act concern issues in general, which under no circumstances fall within the constitutional competence of the National Broadcasting Council. It has developed them with the specific examples of Articles 35, 11 and 17, the rival of the New Democracy. As far as Article 8 is concerned, there has been an attempt to substantiate a reason for censorship and all these issues which concern not only Greek society but also the world community lately. You remember how many conversations were caused by Twitter's decision to cut off the current US President. There were opinions and positive and negative. It is, in other words, a subject of modern reflection and dialogue, the content of these instruments, which are now dominated in our lives and if you want to influence it to a very large extent. What does the government have to say here today? To formulate - and this will be done, ladies and gentlemen of the Greek Solution - what is included in Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights of the European Union that is in force in Greece and indeed has the force of primary law. Now, if there is any need to be any further legislative improvement or the removal of a term, we must not with fanaticism - if you want - formulate certain positions in Parliament and open up issues, because there really is no national minority in Greece. [[Noise from the ward of Greek Solution]] Indeed, there is no national minority in Greece, but that is not enough for you, ladies and gentlemen. It's not enough for you to say. There is a minority in Greece, religious and defined by the Treaty of Lausanne. What is a national minority and where there is a result of international law and international treaties. So you should know, ladies and gentlemen, that there may not be a national minority, but a Greek minority in a neighbouring state, recognised and European legislation moves in this direction of protection. Greece, therefore, outside its territory, has a Greek national minority that recognises it and the constitution of its neighbour. Mr President, there will be no political bazaar in Parliament for what our Constitution provides. What is provided for in the Constitution must be formulated when an application for unconstitutionality is submitted and is not vague. When you want to make a political position on a matter, you have the floor as rapporteur, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative, or as a mere MEP, to place yourself politically, to express your refusal and your opposition. When you table an application for unconstitutionality, Mr President, you must speak out loud, unequivocally and clearly what provision in the Constitution is being violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u88	We're done. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Katsy, I told you, you can't talk. What do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for the floor because Article 100 provides that the sayings, the contributors and the parliamentary representatives are speaking in this procedure. From us, from SYRIZA as a rival was Spyros Lappas. As a parliamentary representative, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u92	I've explained to you what Article 100 says and you'll see it. Mr Minister, you have the floor. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u93	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u94	Please, Mr. Katsey. This thing won't be done every time. The provisions are very clear. Alas, if anyone talks. Representatives of your party came here and asked for Mr Lappas to speak as a parliamentary representative - you obviously had been informed - and we gave him the floor. It's over. In what capacity would Mr. Lappas speak? Minister, you have the floor for unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Cappatos said so as to counteract this, and Mr Bukoros said so as a parliamentary representative, Article 15(2) of the Constitution has the specific role of the National Radiovision Council and is responsible for controlling and imposing administrative sanctions. None of the provisions which have been objected to in the Constitution are in existence either under control or in sanctions. The regulatory framework is being implemented by the government, and this is why in the bill the President of the National Broadcasting Council is not here today, but the government is proposing it. The National Broadcasting Council, according to the law and the Constitution, exercises the powers conferred upon it. I would remind you - and there have been many times - that the first version of the Pappa Law came out as an anti-constitutional version, for the reasons it claims - I accept it well-meaningly - and SYRIZA. We didn't have a composition of a National Broadcasting Council. In any case, the Council of State has rejected it as unconstitutional. If it is possible to discuss the transmission of situations, the transmission of data, data as a result or any version of the role as an audit mechanism and the enforcement mechanism of the National Broadcasting Council. That there is a question - and we have said so in the Committee on the Functioning of the National Broadcasting Council, there is. That is why, for the third time, I say that we are determined to strengthen the National Broadcasting Council to as many staff as they demand and to any equipment they require to do my job. In the second part, Mr Heta, we will not introduce any national minority. Don't worry. You can be quiet. These issues have been resolved for ninety-eight years. Greece has a religious minority, they are Greek citizens. We must not forget that and we must not treat him differently. They are Greek citizens of Muslim religion. Legally, then, we will see how it can be done. There are several versions. We will be back in a little time, along with the normative article 8 that we have announced. Two remarks on Article 8, with all due respect for both the Communist Party of Greece and also to the side of the Officerial Response: first, it did not suddenly come. He was in consultation. I read somewhere that SYRIZA MEP said he came night, suddenly, from the sky. That's not the case. Secondly, it concerns Article 6 of the European Council Directive 1808/2018. At the European Council, who was involved at that time? Who was government in 2018? Who represented Greece at the European Council? It was a party. What does Article 6 say? ‘Without prejudice to the obligation of Member States to protect dignity, audiovisual media services must not contain such content as incitement to violence, public provocation to commit a terrorist offence as defined in Article 5 of Directive (EU) 2017/541, etc. Nowhere does Article 8 speak of artists. Nowhere! Nowhere does Article 8 speak of imprisonment. What does Article 8 say as a penalty? Because of the few legal things I know - and I am sure Mr Lappas will stop me - if there is no penalty, there is no crime. So what is it that it imposes on what we say on sanctions? Administrative fine for Article 8. There's no imprisonment, there's nothing there. So, all of a sudden, an issue concerning content providers has entered the sphere of artists, even though the Constitution speaks of the protection of art, even though the Constitution speaks of the free development of artistic creation. Suddenly, then, that became a matter of censorship. You know, it's a good story, "Police rulership," "censorship". You have recently begun to say 'the ETUC'. Somebody needs to tell you that we're in 2021. Someone has to tell you that these things have been overtaken. As I've said before, for these days we all have to make our self-criticism. The Communist Party of Greece has a specific, anti-European attitude. But to hear from the Qualified Opposition for a directive passed on its day, did Greece really veto? Are we on the verge? I think there's no reason to fight about it at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u96	Did you read what he says in the press release?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u97	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u98	Do you accept that there is a problem or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u99	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u100	To finish, therefore, the government and I - let me personally - accept that there is no doubt about democratic rights. We're gonna do the law school. There is no problem with the substance - it says it in the press release - there is no problem with artists. In any case, we have a lot to discuss next time on issues that exist. I'll talk to you in detail. I think this is an opportunity to correct and many mistakes that have been made in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Article 100(2) of the Constitution on objections to unconstitutionality has been concluded. Now, of course, we cannot follow the normal path laid down by the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. As has been decided and done on several occasions in the past, the rapporteurs will vote at the beginning of the statement. In view of the fact that the two objections are different, we will not take them as a whole, because I have seen differentiations from the parties, but in turn. We begin with the objection of unconstitutionalism tabled by Greek colleagues. That's what we're voting on. Mrs Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u102	We are voting against the Greek solution, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, we are voting in favour. The Greek proposal is being voted down, and what we have said is correct. It's oxymomile, but we're keeping the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u106	We are voting against, because we have called for the full withdrawal of the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u108	We are voting against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u109	Mrs. Gara?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u110	We are voting against, Mr President, and we are awaiting the Minister's amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Cappatos?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u112	We are voting against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u113	The anti-constitutional intensity of the Greek Solution is therefore not accepted and rejected. Let's go to the second objection put forward by my colleagues in Mera25. Mrs. Bakadima?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u114	We are voting in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Hetas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u116	We are voting against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Giokas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u118	We are voting in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Scandalides?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u120	We are voting against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u121	Mrs. Gara?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u122	We are voting in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Cappatos?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u124	We are voting against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u125	The objection of non-constitutionalism of Mera25 is therefore not accepted and rejected. Mr Minister, I will give you the floor to table legislative improvements, but also to reply here: eight amendments have been tabled. You have to tell us - if you have studied them, otherwise you will reserve it - if you will be able to accept them, so that speakers too can know whether they will be given the floor, but also to record, if necessary, the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives what they will say in their dentistry. We therefore want to know what you are going to accept. If you're not ready, tell us sometime. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I will look forward to the amendments. I'll study them soon and come back. I shall table the legislative improvements, including the legislative improvement referred to in Article 8. I believe that this is the most essential. I think it's on the line we talked about before. I am presenting them for the Minutes, so they can be distributed to the representatives of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u127	Let them be taken, please, and distributed to the rapporteurs. For the amendments you will be looking forward, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u128	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u129	We are entering the list of speakers. The first speaker from New Democracy is Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou. Here, Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, before I begin my position, I should like to refer to the International Day against Children's Cancer and welcome the announcement by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, at a meeting with the children who have defeated the cancer, that the National Register of Neoplasms begins to function for patients of childhood and adolescent age. This is a very important initiative. It is a commitment that the Prime Minister himself had made and acted. The bill now. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent years digital technology has expanded rapidly in all areas of entertainment and information. And this revolution, precisely, has also created the need for a uniform regulation of audiovisual services sectors. This objective is achieved, in the first part of the bill, by incorporating a Community directive which introduces major innovations. One of these is the tightening up of the framework for the protection of minors from the content harmful to their physical, mental and moral development, which will apply not only to television and on-demand services, but also to video exchange platforms. Appropriate measures are, in particular, the labelling of programmes, the selection of the transmission time, and the protection of personal data of minors. It is also of special importance that Article 10, according to which providers should ensure that their services are increasingly accessible to disabled people, that accessibility can be achieved, for example, by subtitling the programmes, the use of sign language, the audio description, oral subtitling, as well as other means, a very important regulation for our disabled people. At this point too, Minister, because the people who represent the institutions of the ESDC, but also those with disabilities, the prolongation, the continued progress of oral subtitles, but also of notes in sign language, hopefully and at some point I hope that we will move forward and increase this time to facilitate these people as well. The second part of the bill includes provisions on the domestic broadcasting market, as well as support for the media affected by the financial consequences of the pandemic. Of these, very important for pluralism and public information, is the regulation of Article 40, which ensures the continuation of the operation of radio stations included in the National Broadcasting Council register until the procedures for the issuing of radio licences are completed. And it is also crucial that a final date is now set for the completion of the licensing of radio licences, which, according to the Minister's legislative improvement, is 30 June 2023, and for the licensing of regional and thematic television stations, which are respectively 31 December 2022. In this way, these two loose ends are settled, but the applicants are given sufficient time to prepare themselves. There was also a lot of talk - mainly from the Qualified Opposition - about the provisions of the ERT bill. Colleagues are rather blind or do not want to accept the huge digital jump and the qualitative upgrade that public radio and television have seen in the last year, an upgrade resulting from the new free Ertflix digital platform, which has already been widely embraced by the television audience, by the new and quality television productions, and also from the overall competitive ERT television programme, which is also reflected in the television indicators. The ERT is now a modern, competitive channel in European public channels, and not a party liberation as it was on your day. And because there has also been criticism for the implementation of the measurements, we must point out that any body operating in public money, with the money of the Greek taxpayer, needs to assess its work, control and accountable to the Greek people for it. Here too, as a Member of the Greek Region, I would like to congratulate you, Minister, on the measures you are taking to support regional instruments, namely the possibility of giving their debts to the Agency for Insurance, as well as their exemption from the payment of 1.5% of advertising revenue and excise duty. However, I would like to highlight the need for a broader planning with additives, targeted measures to further strengthen regional television and radio stations and support regional press. The local media are those through which our fellow citizens are informed of the news and problems of their place, news which is difficult to display on national channels, but those which, unfortunately, have suffered a great deal of damage from the suspension of operation of local businesses and the reduction of advertising material, which is their only revenue. We must therefore support regional instruments in all ways, because we must generally support the Greek region. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government with this bill attempts to alleviate the financial consequences of the media from the pandemic, as is, after all, trying to do with every Greek company. The New Democracy believes in freedom, pluralism and the independence of the press, because these are the basic elements of the constitutionally established right to freedom of expression and information, necessary conditions for the functioning of democracy. This government is never going to manipulate the media, as the SYRIZA Government did with the Pappa Law, which attempted to control everything on the television field, to gather powers to a supervising minister, subtracting them from the constitutionally-established National Broadcasting Council, with the result - the well-known result - that the Council of State, which considered the provision of Article 2 of Law No.4319/2015 to be contrary to the constitutional provision of Article 15. And even though the issue of objections to anti-constitutionalism has been resolved, let me say two words, Mr President. It has been said that if powers are removed, we should first of all make it clear that there is no question of co-responsibility in the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. There is no question of competence in any of the provisions of the draft law. Like also the judiciary of administrative law, it is the body which is the body which is the body which adopts an administrative act, the body which is liable to be affected by the administrative courts or the Supreme Court. In this respect, it does not appear, ladies and gentlemen, and Mera25, as well as the other parties which have supported the objection of unconstitutionalism, that the General Secretariat of Communication is a decision. The decision-making body is only the National Broadcasting Council, which has the decision-making power, the enforceable administrative act, i.e., to impose administrative sanctions, to lift authorisations and everything else provided for in the Constitution. I would also like to make a reference to the fact that there is no relevant comment in the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. No comment on unconstitutionalism on the provisions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis at the wheel of the country one thing is certain: freedom of speech and pluralism in Greece will never be faded and this must be understood by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too. Mrs Athanasia Anagnastopoulou is now speaking on behalf of SYRIZA, who will speak with the Webex system. Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in both pandemic and weather conditions - and, indeed, with weather conditions for which there was no prediction, the country is divided into two - where in Athens we cannot move from one neighborhood to another without chains and again legislate. And we legislate not too urgently, which could deal with the pandemic and its economic consequences, but a piece of legislation, a law which again comes to work, to a large extent, in gifts and, to another extent, to suppression. And I say that we legislate like this, normal legislation, and Parliament's offices had to be closed and parliamentarians did not have access. I heard that the government of Mr. Mitsotakis never suppresses, never makes propaganda. I, from this Step of the House - even digital - have to say that on Friday I could not get into my office in Parliament's offices blocked by a police officer. Apparently, the man had orders. It's not about the policeman, it's about his physical leadership. If, at the time the House is legislating, the Member cannot enter his office in the House and is prevented by the police, while a great many people are working on public transport, I wonder what will happen to the universities with the police. Second issue, ERT. Because I have heard too much, it seems that we want to impose general amnesia on society. When the SYRIZA government took over, ERT was closed with the government of New Democracy and PASOK at the time. It was closed, the workers were on the way, and ERT, the public television, that is, the right of Greek citizens to have public television, had to be reconstructed. If things were not as well as you would like - and Mr Kaklamanis said, the President, and I have every reason to respect him - then the amendment tabled today by SYRIZA must be accepted by all parties. The 4/5 Members of this House decide - not to give their opinions, to decide - on the administration of the ERT is the great step we can take from now on. Otherwise, all other conversations fall into the void. I have also heard that we do not have propaganda and deprivation of speech, information, etc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Now this is the place where the pan-Hellenic is fighting, as you know. He fights the pan-Hellenic with the ties "Don't show the Prime Minister to Ikaria", "Don't show Mr. Lignade with his friends, show him alone". And this at a time when all this is happening at the Greek theatre. I too would like to welcome from here the courageous attitude of all women and, of course, of the men who have created a movement to clean up not only in the theater, but also throughout society. So instead of applauding this, some are making sure they create cover. For me - and I shall say so in the most official way - Mrs Mendoni must resign or resign, because she is no longer a scandal. A movement that's created, is trying to cover it, to hit it from the top. I will not say the scandalous arrangements for the channels. Our rapporteur has said so very well. And here, I would remind you - because we are slowly losing our memory - that it was the SYRIZA government that, by law, forced the channels to pay for what the whole civilized world is obvious, namely licensing. And now you come with graceful provisions to give these channels, which use propaganda, since they have, of course, been paid to an unbelievable extent. I will come - because I don't have much time - on the two provisions, on which we have to stay. Article 8. Mr Lebanese said that he made the best possible legislation. No, Minister, you did not legislate in the best possible way. And don't try to drop it on SYRIZA. I have no time to explain this, but it is another time to accept a directive, and I also incorporate it into national law, where I really need to see the needs of the society of my own, the national law, etc. You said you legislated right. If you have legislated properly and transparently and with consultation, etc., why have you been forced by the wonderful movement made by musicians, the world of culture, to get the provision back immediately and say that amendments will be made? There was superstitious censorship and that can't pass. We have repression, we have propaganda from morning to night and attempted preventive censorship even in artistic creations. But here it is not just about musicians, it is not just about creators. It's about the whole society, though it's about censorship. You said you'd bring legal improvements. You told them. I haven't seen anything in writing to see whether I agree or not. Until now, I know that the responsibility has been transferred to the providers. However, this is not a proper piece of legislation, because transferring responsibility to providers means that there too will be censorship and not being able to go up. Which area, too? In the field of culture, which has been severely affected throughout the pandemic. I shall say one last word about a provision too very important. It concerns the yielding of 1.5% from the audiovisual media platforms of foreign providers to the EMEA or the Hellenic Film Center. Here again, we have a bad legacy. With the previous Minister, it was foreseen that 1.5%, even from the television media, would be attributed to the Greek Film Center and not to the Greek Film Centre. Mr. Gerapetritis came and with a medium-sized solution, he gives 1.5% to EKOME from foreign providers and 1.5% of the television media at the Greek Film Center. Once again no national strategy for what is called "Greek cinema". To leave 1.5% of the Greek Film Center means that Greece's film production is no longer visible in the European and global context. And that seems not only from the reactions of Greek filmmakers, filmmakers and others. It is also apparent from the reaction of the Federation of European filmmakers, who sent a letter - twenty thousand members - which says that this removal of 1.5% under the Greek Film Center creates a huge problem in Greek film production.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, please complete. You've been to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u134	I shall conclude, Mr President. I therefore believe that this provision should definitely be changed and that we should start having a national strategy for the Greek Film Centre, for film production in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, too. Please keep the time. If we keep the time, we might be done today. Now Mr Harakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the global media landscape has changed dramatically in recent years because of the multiple technological achievements. In Greece from the days of radio speech and later the two state channels of our youth have arrived at the explosion of the internet, with Youtube, Netflix, Facebook, Instagram, TikTok and all these platforms that have become part of our daily lives. The pandemic, quarantine, social dismissal further accelerated the transition to the new era. This reality requires a legislative settlement of the multiple and complex outstandings it has caused, both in terms of the business-economic aspect of the activities concerned and the various side effects and negative derogations identified. So the European Union is right to adopt this directive, which we are called upon to introduce into national law, and to extend the existing rules to all these new platforms. However, since there are no vague evils, the audiovisual revolution also has serious side effects. One of these is the access of children to material that can affect and damage their psyche. And unfortunately this audiovisual material is abundant in the media and difficult parental control. The consequences for children’s mentality of contact with situations that cannot be managed can be permanent. For this reason, the protection net promoted by the directive is an extremely imposed treaty. The same applies to the protection framework that is established for those using media and platforms to pass messages of hatred and fanaticism, usually accompanied by the scourge of our time, the make news. How dangerous these phenomena are, Mr President, we have seen this recently in the United States with the invasion of Congress. It is very important, of course, that the directive gives European audiovisual production the impetus. For years the basic origin of most producers of films or series has been beyond the Atlantic. Europe is far behind. Even for countries that were once magnifying, such as Italy, their share has declined dramatically in the relevant market. As for Greece, things are even worse. That is why I believe that strengthening European producers is not only an economic issue, but above all a cultural, identity and culture issue. Europe must rediscover its cultural stigma through its diversity. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the internal broadcasting market. Civic Opposition tried to create a noise-centered ERT, accusing the Government of manipulating the information. In fact, Mr. Tsipras came to the point of talking about organic tactics, ignoring that Orwell's works and primarily in 1984 refer directly to the control of the thought that he tried to exercise regimes that he himself and his prolongation continue to praise, forgetting with great ease the works and days of ERT on SYRIZA when he was scandalously stumbling the government, with fronts known and not exceptional journalists who had described Kyriakos Mitsotakis as "fascist". ERT in the years of SYRIZA - ANEL rule had been immersed in animosity, with televised numbers on the tartars. The opposition also talks about state television control, while a number of former ERT managers are at key points in the "KOCKINO", "AUGI", SYRIZA. It moves us the "pipe" to control media information, as if we were all in a group amnesia and we forgot about the "Hamalayan cat", the attempt to control the media through the licensing of pasture canals. I understand, Mr President, that the polls create an anguish at the staff of the Chief of Staff. From the deadlock, however, this will not escape communal balls. The age of the sterile and shouting opposition has passed. Citizens appreciate and reward serious political proposals. And in this area, unfortunately, the Qualified Opposition offers nothing essential. Ladies and gentlemen, the ERT's potential is undoubtedly great. Already, the recovery that has been presented in recent years shows that public television can understand its position in the respective European broadcasting. ERT may impose different rules on the broadcasting environment, partly free of profit. It may be aimed at raising the educational level of society, promoting our history and tradition, especially this year, which will be two hundred years since Palaggeia, and, of course, promoting the Greek region, strengthening the Greek language, linking the family with the country, highlighting the wealth of Greek literature. We all remember the wonderful series in which we grew up, such as "Pantheans", "Christ is crucified", "Loxandra" and so many others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President, I too should like to reiterate that the regional type, which is experiencing a major crisis, must be supported. His survival is essential for the quality of information and democracy as the most important means of democratic control of local authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u137	I too, Mr. Harakopoulos, especially for keeping time. In order to organise the debate, after three speakers, if a parliamentary representative asks to speak, he will take the floor. I will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government, in continuing with the same 'violin' of legislation, is putting down a bill on second and third priority issues, as we consider, Minister, in relation to the deep crisis, health and economic, which is now going through our country, without of course overlooking important issues of democracy raised by this bill. Obviously, there are so many "writings" that the government sees as having to pay off against the purchased media as a kind of thanks for the unsatisfactory support that the media provides all the time of governance, but also for election. As Mera25, we will not forget the role of propaganda that played these instruments in 2015, recalling the messages they sent to the public that all social groups support the 'yes' in the referendum. We will also not forget the attempted political murder of the Secretary General of Mera25, Mr. Yiannis Varoufakis, and his immoral targeting with truly unfounded and countless inaccuracies. The question we ask is, where is the opposition, but above all where are the media, when we have made an official request to investigate the omissions, failures and mistakes that have been made throughout the entire period of debt-government, the debt prison in which our country has been convicted by the Memorandum Governments? We wonder whether the mission of journalism is above all to investigate and demonstrate the truth, to provide impartial information and whether public information is not such an important issue, which concerns the public in general. It seems, however, that in the end what is most interested in the government and its great precursor is to become "the king's royalty". And we say this, because it is not enough that the channels praise the government every day for its political choices and have beautifully seen the image of its political choices, but also glorify any voice of protest, any voice of opposition, in a way that is truly untrue, that violates journalistic ethics, in a way that is inappropriate. Every time a voice of counterpopulation comes out, media as self-determination advocates of the government are recruited. Remind the 'black' which ERT and the government's celebrations of the fact that it allegedly relieved the public of high-wage state-owned 'writings'. You have now reached the point of being so tightly embraced by the national broadcasting you have assigned it directly to the Prime Minister. You have done so much to legislate even on the wage liberalisation of the President and Managing Director of the ERT, as well as on the President of the Athenian News Agency, and this is on the recommendation of their boards. You have raised their wages even above and above the Secretary-General's wages. Let us recall that the monthly salaries of the Secretary-General are EUR 3.231 the basic salary plus EUR 1,400 the liability allowance, totalling EUR 4.631. You, without any justification and without any accountability, only because their boards have recommended it, have greatly lifted their basic wages, when you require the ordinary citizen in the middle of a coronary, in the midst of a recession -10% recession - to live with EUR 534 per month and at the moment when you are providing pensioners, as has been done recently, a pension advance, not even a temporary pension. You provide an advance payment of EUR 384. That is what we consider, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to be an incomprehensible immunity, to be a greedy greed. It is shameful to bring provisions while people are facing a permanent problem of survival, poorer, poorer, living in precarious conditions and not knowing what dawns on them, living under a permanent pessimism. What are you doing? At the same time, activate an army of Golden Boys. I say 'golden boys', not only because you are making wage maps and creating two speed workers, but also because you are also providing a particularly favourable status to the members of the PSE, the National Broadcasting Council, and also to other executives in general public service broadcasting. In fact, by calculations, the number of beneficiaries who will suddenly be excluded from this single wage and whose salaries, as provided for in the provision, will be determined by a joint ministerial decision of the Minister of Finance and the media officer, will reach the two hundred people. If these officials eventually receive an increase of about EUR 200 per month, then the cost that will be created and charged to the state budget can reach up to EUR 500,000 per year. What's that money? It's money with which the government could have bought a hundred thousand rapid test if we consider that the price of one piece is five euros. Because at this price the Institute for Pharmaceutical and Technological Research of the EOF from a well-known American global market company. It could therefore have strengthened the massive traceability, for which we have been calling for so long. So within the hardest Lockdown you, instead of buying these rapid tests and strengthening the National Health System, what are you doing? Just favor the pockets of the few and selected. We are now going to the issue of discharge in respect of the payment of 2020 fees for television licences. And I say discharge, because when you make a 98% discount, that cannot be considered a discount, it is simply a discharge. So what are you doing? Of the EUR 3.5 million estimated for each licence each canalarch will ultimately pay EUR 50,000, provided that last year he had made a corresponding discount on costs he made for the purchase and production of television programmes, for logistics and infrastructure improvement. That is, in fact, what you are doing for 2020 is subsidising and subsidising television production and purchasing equipment. In other words, you tell them that "if you spent within 2020 to operate your product and improve 3,5m euros, now you will not pay an equivalent amount for the television licence, you will pay a provocatively smaller amount". In addition, "for the television licence of 2021 you will not even pay a single amount, will be paid in instalments". That's what you do! For the EDEAP, again with the money of the Greek taxpayer you are financing the insurance contributions, the contributions that have been withheld and that have not been paid by the Canadians over this period. You're subsidising them. You are giving them a double gift, because you are also financing employers' contributions, but you are giving them even fines for various debts. You give them fines and increments for four years. In addition, the owners of the pan-Hellenic television stations that are broadcast today will even be able to obtain a licence in the future, not by a competitive procedure, but by means of an on-site signal. Minister, the workers see this bill, the scientists see it, the free traders see it, and the traders are literally appalling, because for what proportionality, what equality, and the need to talk about when there is so much squander of public money? I am referring to the EUR 20 million on the Petsa list, which the entire Opposition called on the government to publish and finally cooked it when another EUR 2 million was given, again based on the Pessa list, for national channels and for the EUR 18.5 million of the Minister of Health, Kikilia, for vaccination campaigns. You have therefore exceeded the dispersion of more than EUR 40 million in aiding a sector which, at the end of the day, has not been affected and has not been able to support with brave funding measures and support the sectors that have been affected as much as anyone else, such as tourism, such as focusing, such as scientists, such as free professionals, such as self-employed people. You know, with this money you could have bought also, in the middle of a coronary, trains and buses to keep the world from consuming, you could have strengthened the National Health System and education to cover the huge gaps that he suffers from, to hire permanent medical personnel. So what you're doing is just giving money to the channel owners. We're getting hammered up by international news media, which isn't left, and which they say? They denounce this hug of government and canals, the government's privileged treatment of channels. They denounce that in the official indexes of free press our country has literally collapsed and they identify the government with the most defective democracies. For the required number of workers in television stations, while under the Petsa Act you had not received any benefits, now brought, under the pressure of workers of all specialties, a provision on the terms of employment of four hundred people. However, I should like to point out that 15% of these, i.e. sixty, are not engaged in a full-time contract of employment, because they can be workers borrowed, that is, contractors from other companies belonging to the same group, on the same television station. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be a minute. This also means reducing staff, which means creating two speeds, on the one hand, are low-paid workers, contractors, who will be employed by individual contracts, and on the other hand, we have the Golden Boys, the high-paid people, who are employed by a collective agreement. It is also predicted that employment will be equal to twenty and not twenty-five days, i.e. work on an annual basis with fewer workers and rotating work and with unpaid overtime, elasticizing full working conditions. So this is your supposed interest in workers. In my dentistry, I will develop Article 8 and other problematic points of the bill. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much. Now I will give the floor to Mr Alexandros Triantafylides from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Levanière, you said with a great deal of nerve - and I find my anger difficult to keep - your unscrupulous and provocative report on ERT. You have a selective memory. It's far away in 1960, and you don't remember it, but you forgot about the near 2013 of Samaras - Venizelos. You told the committee that public television 'from a resounded propaganda body, which was made by SYRIZA, today with credibility, etc.' '... this is the judge for this and the percentages etc.'. So the best thing SYRIZA has to do is to keep quiet, that is to keep quiet so that his works and days on public television are forgotten. O tempora o mores! May I remind you what he did near 2013 by an act of legislative content, which was never passed by the Greek Parliament for ratification of what is defined in the Constitution, the Samara - Venizelos Government on 11 June 2013? The 2013 ERT 'Black' multiple crime that will follow you forever, global, pan-European exclusiveity of the New Democracy, which threw forty positions on the global classification of freedom of press and media in Greece and made Greece a defendant and imprisoned in all fortresses, the Council of Europe, everywhere. It has been eight years and you are investing in oblivion, dare you. Ask for a great apologies from the Greek people because you are the perpetrators of the lost sign of democracy, because you closed by throwing "black" on Greek TV, firing three thousand workers, journalists, technicians, managers with the sudden death. We, as SYRIZA, opened the ERT and reinstated everyone - I stress everyone! - workers on the sole criterion of having an indefinite contract on the night of 'black'. Apologise for the excretions of the ICU and NERIT that cost tens of millions of dollars, as Mr Kikilis confessed there in the sacred Chamber of Parliament in the summer of 2014, saying “in the case of ERT, gentlemen, we have lost”. Apologise, Minister of the New Democracy, for closing the ERT, the only potential competitor in the new digital era that was opened at the time, you, the enthusiasts of free competition, made DIGEA a monopoly. So, what's DIGEA? ‘MEGA’, ‘ANTENNA’, ‘SKA’, ‘STAR’. Where does he sell and which images, program and network distribution? ‘MEGA’, ‘ANTENNA’, ‘SKA’, ‘STAR’, or ‘Yannis’ is buying, ‘Yannis drinks, which at that time were operated without permission. So you shut down the ERT that was licensed and left the private channels that were not licensed to operate. They don't forgive us. What? That we put an end to the lawlessness of the free, in the thirty years of the free cinema, the pillaging of the national wealth, the national frequencies, which belong to and belong to the Greek people, the owner is the Greek people and the tenants of the frequencies are private channels. Now what are you doing? Biscuits asusual, deliver service. You give millions to canalarchs, suspend annual instalments to canalarchs, share packages, millions of gifts through the Petsa and Kililia lists, at the same time as condemning the people of the focus, the sellers of the popular markets in hunger, the tourist workers, the free professionals, the middle class in hunger. For the Canadians, we have money for the hungry, unemployed, who are starving are not there. Here in Thessaloniki, squid lines have been set up. With this face, Mr Levanne, you are cutting off the electricity from small and medium-sized enterprises. A little embarrassment, a little bit of a blowjob! Now what are you doing? Resurrect the complication. You're giving millions, buying TV time, everything you've always done. That is what you do, Mr Levanie, services. You're the velvet political service dealer, Mr. Levanie. That role was assigned to you by Mr. Mitsotakis. Worthful followers of the Samara Government - Venizelos, Mitsotakis and his plus, extensive macariosis, riding and manipulating the media, redundancies of journalists in the private sector who do not comply with the suggestions. Really, where are the journalists who asked Alexis Tsipras why he fired when we set the limit of four hundred workers in every medium in Greece, precisely to protect workers' jobs? We lived through the recent strike of journalist associations to defend the limit of four hundred employees of the Pappa law that was supposed to fire them. Reconstruct the disrupted chain of intercom, banks, parties, channels. Banks finance the parties and make the wrong eyes for your borrowers and your unsavoury, the channels are financed by banks - although they owe more than one billion - traditional parties are making sure they get rid of the bankers' amendments for their responsibility for the maritime loans with parties and channels. The channels in turn support traditional parties that support the banks that finance them. That's how business was done, until these SYRIZA peculiars came. And all of these - the Athenian, political, economic and median princess - will take care, as with this bill, of the Greek people, that the strange people of SYRIZA do not come back again. At the end of the day, however, you decide the sovereign people. Apologise, Mr. Levanie, for the lives that have been lost at the ERT in the forefront... (didn't have been heard because of a bad connection). Apologise for the unheard of invasion of the MAT and police platoons at the ERT Radio Memorial... (It was not heard because of a bad connection) by command of your Minister at the time, Nikos Dendias, where on the walls of ERT the forms of Melina, Hatzidakis, Carolo Kun abstaining from seeing globes and shields, instead of ideas, arguments, dreams, scripts and musicals. Apologise to the Greek emigrants, the Greeks of the hostel, who suddenly loved them for their voters, you patriots who then threw "black" in the "ART WORLD" and "NET SAT", you who threw the great antenna of Greek voice into the rocky, to make it a big antenna, so that every corner of the planet listen to the Greek language, the Greek voice, listen to Greek seafarers, transporters everywhere. And it was the POPERT and the fired workers technicians, journalists and managers, the standing of free ERTs who rescued and set her up again. SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras, in June 2015, along with the collectives, along with the refreshment and living society, which he fought to keep the ERT alive, opened the ERT after the "black", with all its staff, in the face of his empathy, vengeance and hatred and, unfortunately, he has still for ERT - I conclude, Mr President - a large part of your party. You shut down ERT and fired everyone. We have opened it and reinstated them all, we are not the same. You are the culmination of "close and erase", but in a style at the end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. The proposal from our President, Alexis Tsipras, which we tabled in the form of an amendment to this effect, in order not to feel, nor does the government in question feel, 'I am government and I do what I want', nor do any of the ERT employees feel and operate as an agent under the threat of reduced intervention in his work. Do we believe it? Here is the act, behold the prospect of four fifths, with the vast majority giving the country the presence and perspective of ERT, the common home of all Greeks...(not heard because of bad connection) Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides. Mr Athanasios Ljupis has the floor from the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the time when television was the most direct and strong media has passed some time ago. Today things are very different. On the day-to-day basis is the selection of social media, to download popular or non-user accounts, because of their content, which was considered illegal or untrue. On this basis we realise that we have allowed these platforms to self-regulate for a very long time. The European directive, which is incorporated into the current draft law, focuses on media services that keep audiovisual material in every way, through classical or pay-TV, on video-sharing platforms, for example Youtube, and on social media. The PSE is the independent authority which is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the provisions, but also for imposing sanctions. It shall be responsible for drawing up a list of all providers notified to the European Commission. It is important and absolutely necessary to establish a regulatory framework for advertising, presented by video-sharing platforms, whether they are advertisements of the platform itself or the video creator. We are thus ensuring transparency since media service providers are required to make their data public. In audiovisual media, any reference to incitement to violence or hatred, against groups of people, as well as to motivate the public to commit a terrorist crime, is forbidden. Especially for minors, which are the most vulnerable group of users, the directive contains a grid of protective devices. For example, this Directive proposes, inter alia, the contract of programmes, the use of PIN codes and general parental control systems which prevent minors from having access to images possibly harmful to physical, mental and moral development. An offender or a witness to such acts shall be prohibited. Special attention is paid to the accessibility of disabled people to audiovisual media and an obligation is introduced for providers to improve their services by using subtitling, sign language, audio description and oral subtitling. The pluralism and cultural diversity shall be ensured and, at the same time, a programme may not be cut for commercial purposes without the consent of the provider in order to ensure the completeness of the result. The framework for the product placement service is clearly defined and news programmes, consumer programmes, religious content and children are explicitly excluded from this service. It is important to strengthen the European audiovisual market by means of the directive. It is defined that providers on demand of communications services must have at least 30% European projects in a predetermined position. If they are addressed to the Greek...(doesn't sound due to a bad connection)...common will have to strengthen Greek audiovisual works annually to 1.5% of their turnover in Greece. Similarly, television broadcasters are required each year to present European projects of over 50% of the total year. A whole chapter of the bill relates to the regulation of issues relating to television advertising and teleshopping. Specific time frames are set for advertising, teleshopping of medicinal products is prohibited and the conditions are laid down for any television advertising and sales of alcoholic beverages. The second part of the bill includes up-to-date rules on the broadcasting market. In the PPE business register, all non-linear media providers established in Greece are registered by submitting their data and list of their programmes. The loan agreement between partners, shareholders or members of a board of directors of a company to the company itself is now allowed in the case of a television station. Regional television and radio stations, pending their licensing process, are given the opportunity to change the nature of their programme once and for all. In view of the particular economic situation, television companies account for up to 15% of their employees, and workers with a dependent employment relationship in related companies or production companies. Investments shall be selected and, therefore, from the allocated 2020 allocation for the cost of television licence, the amounts spent on the programme, technology equipment and infrastructure shall be deducted. Under the current economic circumstances, practical support is provided to the media. Regional television stations - and this is the serious thing, Minister - are exempted from 1.5% of advertising revenue for production and have the possibility of adjusting the debts - employers' contributions to the EDEA in seventy-two instalments. Finally, in general terms, the ERT has made a huge leap in recent years. It remains faithful to the provision of a quality programme for the television audience, but at the same time it took important and qualitative steps towards the modern needs of the public, with very popular services, as we all know, such as Ertflix. A clear aim was to develop ERT into a competitive polo over private channels. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to acquire experienced senior administrative staff. The remuneration of the CEO and the Chairperson shall be determined by a CSR and with absolute transparency. In conclusion, I would like to say that the rapid expansion of digital media creates an ever-changing field and developments run fast. It is a great challenge that we face: to strike a balance between the freedom that the world of technology offers and the problems of censorship and criminal behaviour that may arise. The Internet is moving at a rapid pace and the state must constantly adapt itself to protect everyone and especially children from the innumerable dangers they neglect. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr Ljupe, and respect for the time. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill on the provision of audiovisual media services and you see how fateful the debate is leading to the influence of the media on the formation of public opinion and the quality of democracy. Naturally, this is because if the government remains very honest with itself, I am sure it is disgusting to the citizens' strong dissatisfaction with the freedom of the press and information in our country. Even your voters in social media admit it, reflecting your cynical phrase "littlely, SYRIZA has done the same," as is an excuse for controlling information and the media. The unanswered questions about the list of Mr. Petsa, Minister, accompanied by a sense of money smashing with recipients of canalarchs and publishers, the notes to the ERT on which photographs will cover the issue of the Prime Minister's visit to Ikaria or the issue of the resignation of the Director of the National Theatre are a few examples. I think you don't realize that in the times of the internet, as careful or smart as the moves you make in order to put the news into quarantine, people perceive it and react. Democracy is based on dialogue, but you have imposed on informing a governmental monotonous monologue, putting all parties in the last party role. Democracy is based on dialogue, but you have imposed on informing a governmental monologue, as I have said. How controlled the systemic media in Greece is recorded in all the evaluations of Greek media, Minister. The fact that it does not pass as news any opposition proposal for the management of the pandemic is another typical example. You have almost criminalised political controversy, political dialogue. When opposition has a different or alternative proposal from your own, either isolate or ridicule. And that is always done, with an arrogance that is perceived by everyone. The lack of the PSE, which has been limited to the role of an observer of events, is also apparent, without any real conflict. Ladies and gentlemen, we recognise that the bill under discussion does have some positive regulations. I am referring in particular to the provisions introduced through the directive concerning the accessibility of disabled people to audiovisual media services through various tools, as well as the establishment of an accountability and benefits procedure. It is also positive to strengthen the protection of the physical, mental and moral development of minors from inappropriate content. Of course, all this is not enough, but it must also be implemented in practice. I would also like to focus on Article 8, which imposes on content providers an obligation to exclude the content of what is instigating violence or hatred. Obviously, we are positive about this article. We have seen in the past days about this article that artists rise and it is impressive that the amendment brought together in very little time seven thousand signatures. We are pleased that you have heard and welcomed the amendment you have announced. This is because freedom of art must be protected in every way. I think, however, that with the same sensitivity you should also see the concerns of the filmmakers about Article 17. The strengthening of the funding of the Greek Film Centre, the institution's most support and funding for the domestic cinema, through sources other than this code of the Ministry of Culture, is necessary and I think that its funding by foreign providers on demand is entirely in line with the general spirit of the directive that we are incorporating today. In addition, in all European countries following its integration processes, the relevant quota for funding has been set for their national cinema centres, which operate on qualitative selection criteria, as has the Hellenic Film Centre and not automatically criteria for investment incentives such as EKOME. As far as the second part of the bill is concerned, you are now bringing some regulations that seem to want to take advantage of the tragic juncture of the pandemic, creating a permanent situation. I am obviously referring, Minister, to the provision concerning the issues relating to the percentage of workers in the channels. We do not have the possibility of suspending this period of a number of workers as they do in the rest of the economic sector. On the contrary, we have the cancellation of an obligation that will apply permanently, unfortunately. We now go to Article 45 which provides for the remuneration of staff, ERT directors, etc. I think that for the time being this provision is challenging. Obviously, a public body must have well-paid officials, but in the midst of the pandemic that thousands of workers are suffering and unemployment is scoring, I think, out of place and over. I close with a reference to regional channels known to be having more difficulties than centralised ones. The changes you enter are moving in the positive direction. However, we would expect a more comprehensive proposal. We believe that both regional channels and the local press play an important role in informing citizens, so we have made concrete proposals as a Change Movement to support them, which we believe is necessary to ensure their smooth operation and development. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u145	Thank you too for keeping time. Mr Consolas has the floor from New Democracy, after an internal change among the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard today in the debate on the very important draft law on communication and information issues, labels and locations by the Qualified Opposition on media issues, but it is not possible that any position, Mr President, should lead to zeroing positions and references to the content of the bill. We have heard from the Minister and from our rapporteur that, like our Parliamentary spokesman, there are very important aspects of the bill and I think there is no one in the Chamber, but also from those who are online who do not have a good footprint on the footprint of this debate, because this bill is facing real problems, it forms a new institutional framework for audiovisual content providers, geared to modern times and adapted to the needs of modern times. The media are not just their owners, they are workers, and I want to highlight that. The media support measures, which are also affected by the current situation that we are experiencing because of the pandemic, are aimed at maintaining jobs. And allow me, Mr President, to stress this. They aim to maintain jobs. The obsession for the future of the media has been expressed in the previous period and we have seen that it has led to a dangerous persuasiveness. This obsession must be abandoned. The problem of Officer Opposition, not as a whole, but by specific political actors in the Civilian Opposition, is not the media, it is the inability to convince and inspire, it is the ones that were done as a government that had pushed out the citizens because of their particular ideological attitude. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill incorporates Directive 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018, Directive 2010/13 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010. I say this because this forms a modern institutional framework in the audiovisual content service sector, a sector that has undergone significant changes as a result of technological development. We have passed since the age of important analogue TV channels at the time when audiovisual content services are available online. The content of the draft law reshapes the operating framework of media service providers as far as the regulatory framework is concerned. The new elements introduced, let me point out, are aimed at laying down rules for the protection of minors against the transmission of inappropriate content, but also a regulatory framework for advertising aimed at minors and adults. Secondly, we have a stricter framework for the provision and transmission of audiovisual content aimed at inciting acts of violence, racial hatred or racist segregation. It also aims to impose a financial contribution of 1.5% of Greece's turnover for providers on demand of media services, established in another state, if they are specifically addressed to the public within our home country. This means, in practice, financing films or television series or buying rights to new Greek audiovisual works. The obligation to register in Greece media service providers, subscribers or free receptions in the business register held in the transparency control section of the National Broadcasting Council is also included in the provisions of the draft law. Finally, the strengthening of the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council for the implementation of the provisions of Directive 2010/13 on the provision of audiovisual media services. The bill has positive arrangements for the media landscape. I am going to refer to the regulation which provides for the continuation of broadcasting of the radio stations currently operating, which are included in the National Broadcasting Council register until the radio licence process is completed, of course, with the commitment that this openness will be brought to an end immediately. The same applies to the provision that the licensing procedure for regional and thematic television stations will be completed by 31 December 2022. A substantial support measure is also the regulation whereby regional TV stations are exempted from the payment of 1.5% and the special advertising tax 5% by 31 December 2022. In the positive direction, it is also possible to regulate the debts in seventy-two instalments from regional television stations to a single media agency for ancillary insurance and care, and in my report, Mr President, I would stress that this is a very important direction, because it gives prospects for both the region and especially the border. I am referring specifically to the Dodecanese and also to the Eastern Aegean, which is very important to support these regional TV people. In closing, Minister, I will raise the question of supporting regional electronic and paper media. It is a question linked to the quality of our democracy. Regional media is a channel of communication and public dialogue at local and regional level. They show local problems. None of us are indifferent to highlighting issues that are raised through these instruments. There can be, Minister, support measures such as the absolute application of the Low Advertising Quota, the reduction of value added tax in the Press, the reduction of the end of the ‘DIGEA’ for regional TV channels, the financing programme through the NSRF for digital transformation and the renewal of regional media technology equipment. Mr President, Minister, I believe that the government, by closing a number of loose ends, should also present a holistic plan to strengthen the regional press. Knowing you, I am sure you will do so immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should start by thanking Mr Livanios and Mr Mitsotakis for giving us a very impressive picture of what New Democracy is and what he is seeking. Let us try to give a simple picture of what the bill has. First theme: they give the 2020 television licence to the canalarchs. Turns out the free didn't die! The discount is too large, it's 98.6%, i.e. from three and a half million will only pay 50 grand. I must confess, Mr Levanie, that you are open-handed. Only you do with a foreign memorial column because that's civil money, they're neither yours nor Mr. Mitsotakis's to give gifts to your best friends. It's the country's money, people's money, and the country needs it. At the same time you abolish the price of acquisition in a public good, i.e. a good that society has put you depositary you are abolishing the price for that good. It's like we chose to keep the wolf guarding the sheep, the public goods. And you return very easily to this age of the golden triangle of power, i.e. the triangle - money, banks - government and politicians. You know, talking to a friend of mine on Saturday in Thermi I was about what your bill does likened it to you: let's say a printer has VAT debts. So you tell him: If you buy paper to do your job you can't pay the VAT. You do this because what the channels do with which you give them the dose are compulsory and compulsory. But you also put a gift on the carnival, a subscription license. So while they have made a competition three years ago they do not pay the price in 2020 and give them a gift for another fifteen years and a subscription channel. Let's say it's like an entrepreneur got a "XENIA", a hotel, and after three years you've said to him: take one more without paying anything. But behind them and what are you doing? You're reducing the staffing requirements. Instead of four hundred workers, journalists and technicians of the Pappa law who are now all begging to stand up and keep work protection and licenses - because I do not see you abolishing licences on the channels - you are going down to three hundred forty-three workers. Of course the remaining sixty say that they might go to other production companies, but they already existed next to the channels and many times to their owners. But, indeed, Mr Levanière, what you are doing is to be a minister who today will be voting on a bill for redundancies of journalists and technicians. That's who you are! Of course not for all the employees, because for your own children, the "blue" children of the ERT and the Athenian Agency with the same bill, you pay up to the level of Secretary-General. And I'm wondering, Mr. Levanière, will you tell us how many executives there is anticipation of an increase in pay? Because the market says it's over a hundred executives who will get a fee of that height. And I wonder, will you have so many executives there in New Democracy, so that, if you like, you can continue the final mess that is created throughout Greece? I hope at least they work, because in other cases public bodies you also have non-workers who receive high wages. Or an example that we now live in, the DEDDIE, in which today the country is in danger and in need of rapid electricity connections, you have not received any technicians, but you have received "blue children", managers and directors in departments that have ten people and have put a general manager with a fee of 150 thousand euros a year. That's who you are. So we see the serious deficits. On the one hand, only settling and ruffles, but we do not see anywhere, Mr Lebanon, prevention, operational capacity, staffing, public functions. We see how much we are suffering today in an extraordinary, indeed extreme weather phenomenon and workers are suffering along with it. Because you, along with the ideas and interests you serve, see politics only superficially, unscientificly, just for the electoral benefit, for the quick predator and politics. That is why you are weakening Greece and removing it from Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the system of power in and around Maximus, a system of power I must confess to being arrogant, cynical, arrogant and challenging, with this bill takes over the support of the canalarchs and at the same time feeds its 'own children', which obviously did not enter with ASP. The Mitsotakis Government buys the silence, the suffocation. And I imagine that if you have reached a point to take over the support of canalarchs, contractors and other besties, your policy is too weak to need to pay to be able to support you. It is an unfair policy, Mr Lebanon, which is based only on fear and lies and violates democratic rules, but it also violates European regularity. And you came here today to confirm that you have a bill that aims to serve a small caste of businessmen, midiarchs, redundancies and downgrade work on the channels, the involvement of the Mitsotakis Government with interests, but which negatively affects the good of information, affects the good of public television frequencies, pluralism, snuffs the information and makes ERT a propaganda mechanism with inaccurate, misinformation, perversion and excellence, and excellence, because we see the "blue kids" only go ahead. However, the demands of the canals are served directly, it is a fact, as is other requirements. We now see recently the "ELLENIC CRYSOS" or the demands there in the Greek, which you listen to the bulldozers, we don't see. But you do not do the same, Mr Levanne, with the needs of traders, professionals, craftsmen, scientists and workers who, in the pandemic, emit a voice of agony. And you hide that truth from both the ERT and the channels. And extend censorship, as we have seen that you have recently made a bank in Ikaria, which has never played, with the command you gave and forbidden producers and journalists to reproduce audiovisual material from the Cairo "coronglendi" with a partner and participant of the Prime Minister himself or the photos of Mr. Lignade with Mr. Mitsotakis, who you forbid them, even though it was his personal choice for the National Theatre. Unfortunately, public television has been made by a distorting and shameful propaganda mechanism. As we have seen with the executives of DPRK, who, not only once, often brought them to the ERT by saying that they are unmanufactured students to present that the bill of public order and authoritarianism for the universities is a positive bill. And of course we understand that, when you buy silence and frustration, it is obvious that in the same bill you will reach censorship in all forms of intellectual and art. And it contains this bill, and I expect to see the accuracy of the law-makers. You arrive with a lot of ease in authoritarianism across and in art. Why do you want to punish both artists and intellectuals? You're carving the canalarchs, we understand that. You've been doing it for too many years. The triangle of interlocutory examined by the Committee of Inquiry on parties' and media loans proved it. Do you remember the "air" loans? But I have one question, Mr Levanière. Could you please tell me when all these "air" loans will finally go to the audience? When will the prosecutor call their parties cashiers and canalarchs for the "air" loans? Likewise, where have the loans of the New Democracy reached? Because I remember the last statement was 310 million and you're probably going for 330 or 340 this year. It's not just this charitable arrangement you're doing for the channels. The 25 million in the Petsa list, the 18 million for vaccination, the discount on advertising expenditure, all of it is a gift to the Minorists who will probably have come to you cheaply while I see the distorting presentation of incompetence from the channels continue. Even today, I imagine what would happen if it were SYRIZA's government today. We'd have a lot of Armageddon ensembled. But I have to say something, Mr Levanni. Even against this policy, you must accept the proposal made by Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA to take an initiative for overcoming policy so that with an increased majority of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency the administration of the ERT is chosen. We all owe it as a political reserve, and that will be measured. I must say to you, of course, by closing that we are not optimistic, because you are making it all clear to us: To the canalarchs and the "blue" rugs of the ERT, you make all the carpets and you lead Greece into a dystopic future, a future where the financially powerful use tools to enforce their power and the government is now back in control of the privileged elites. The government is also controlled by these elites, as was the case in the pre-democratic era, what many scientists and political analysts, like Colin Crowch, describe as a post-democratic regime. After the Mitsotakis period, Mr. Levanie, with you as a participant, Greece will be a country with degraded functions of democracy, with violation of the rule of law and with abolished freedoms and rights. Will you stand this, gentlemen and ladies of the Couple? Our society cannot withstand it and will overturn it with a progressive government, as well as all these unscrupulous arrangements that you have brought today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too. Mr Efstratios Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, what I have to say to my colleagues, particularly to the Minister, is that the SYRIZA Members, quite logically, are raising the tone. They raise tons, because they are no longer directed at the Greek people. They compete with each other who is politically able to exploit the small remaining part. It's always like that. When the parties shrink, executives are forced into an internal competition. We will not go along with this, nor will we, of course, monitor them in an effort that the House is making not to go ahead with its work, not to come to the House bills. They did so, taking advantage of the pandemic, for the very important law of the Ministry of Education. They are doing the same now for an important bill on the media. They are raising tons, of course, in an incorporation of a Community directive and I stress that it cannot be our involvement in the European Union with a card. We also have obligations and these obligations must be honoured. This does not mean, of course, that the incorporation of the directives is a one-way road. The way in which it is implemented is, of course, up to the way in which the respective government is legislating. Already the Minister, accepting a number of objections, which, of course, had no substantial content, has stressed to low tons that he would bring some legislative improvements so that some issues that the opposition and the two smaller parties consider to be major, without them being, will be considered. The Directive contains very important regulations concerning the protection of minors, the easier access of SMEs to the Internet or audiovisual media and generally the control of the various platforms, which are located abroad, in Greece. I think that in the area, which is the substance of the bill, very important steps are being taken with regard to Greek legislation. For the independent authorities, it is clear that the role of the National Broadcasting Commission remains as it is and in no way shrinks. As far as ERT is concerned, what can I say? They're coming to the hanger's house to talk about rope. The people for whom the terms "boss", "Hamalayan cats" and...(here's not heard because of bad connections) are now coming to teach democracy in a government that has actually proved with all its forces that it respects democracy completely, does not raise the tone, simply leads to the necessary reforms that restore normality in the middle of Greek family, a normality that was not there all these years. What about ERT? They are indisputably the numbers of television viewing and I think they are extremely important. Also, the freeing of the salaries of certain members of the public accountancy finds me generally in agreement. It's something I want for all public enterprises. Only in this way can we attract competent people from the private sector. And without sufficient people from the private sector, seeing only those around us in our party offices, we can in no way go forward. I would also remind SYRIZA that the main executives who are responsible for his government at the ERT today are prominent party officials in their respective positions obviously in the party. As far as the smaller parties are concerned, I would remind you that the enemy of democracy is not just elitism, it is populism and they also have a responsibility towards the Greek people, regardless of whether their percentages are too small. We must take this responsibility in full. They should not talk by air, they should not talk - in my opinion, I always put forward a point of view - in a way that actually scratches wounds or alone aims to enclose a small party audience. Finally, with regard to fines, I agree with the view that there must be a proportionality. It cannot be a very small channel in the province for a misdemeanor it will do and it will be similar to a misdemeanor that will cause a big channel to have the same sentences. It's unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u151	Thank you too, Mr Simopoulos, for keeping time. Mr. Kotsos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by pointing out that, while listening to SYRIZA colleagues, it would have been thought that they never went through a government or when they were in power, that everything was angelic. But there are very fresh memories of SYRIZA's dear and dear colleagues, the complaints of the pastoral businessman regarding Minister's intervention in order to get loans from a Chinese company to intervene in the television scenery. You see, your political practice is still following you today, and you obviously have lost the right to say what you think sounds good or inconsistent in the ears of our fellow citizens, because our fellow citizens have known your political practice, they have met your policy in the field, and of course you have been placed in the chairs of counterpopulation, obviously because they have evaluated you as inadequate government service. To come to the bill now, it is true that today the speed with which digital services became part of the new way of life, the new everyday life brought to our society by the horn pandemic. It is true that this new reality has caused our lives social distance and has removed contact between people. So we are living in a new era, in the era of smart mobiles, of the screen, of television on demand. Because, ladies and gentlemen, much of the debate has been going on in Greek radio and television, in ERT, we are going to see how public television has been working over the last eighteen months. It is true that state television has entered the pioneering part in which it has not had and has not access to any of the private channels, but has not created anything like it, implementing a free online platform, Ertflix, which attracts several thousands of people, our fellow citizens who have access and see series and movies through this platform. Here I would like to assure you that it was and still remains the primary objective of our Government and Mr Mitsotakis' public television to develop new strategies that adapt to the needs of today, but also to develop new television products that will be interesting and reflect on the Greek public. Ladies and gentlemen, a glimpse of the numbers of television shows the rise in public television in the preferences of the television audience. I would therefore say that in this context and within its logic of a highly competitive environment there must be a flexibility both for pay, but also for the way in which high-ranking state television staff are recruited. So because we all want an ERT, a ERT which has spectacularity, an ERT which is similar or better, I would say, of private channels, we have to choose the best of the free market to add value and specific weight to public television. The turn of all to digital services was inevitable, especially for our children who suddenly found themselves in a new environment outside the school, outside of activities, with their own contact with electronic devices. Should we not proceed to the necessary arrangements to protect the new generation? Should our children not be protected against the material that produces violence, which produces intolerance or promotes racism? Is it not, therefore, necessary to adopt new business standards? This is exactly what this bill comes to do. We incorporate the European directive in order to mitigate the impact of the coronary on the market. It regulates audiovisual content even on social media such as Youtube, which our young people are using on board. There are new regulations, new obligations, new procedures in particular for advertising. New rules are being introduced on platforms that young people exchange videos and use. More accessibility is given to disabled people in the new services by strengthening sign language. Our government has set a national support plan for people with disabilities, giving them rights for equal access to all sectors, let alone information. Advertisements are encouraged that protect children from unhealthy foods and mainly do not contain tobacco products. Here I should like to note the strengthening of the role of the PSE, with a view to pluralism, cultural diversity and consumer protection. Obligation to register in the ERR register all the media service providers established in Greece. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we want to change the nature of radio and television stations at regional level. With the completion of the new licensing procedure, it is necessary to change their nature in order to inform the public fully and objectively, but also not to harm the business freedom of stakeholders. The regional press needs support, because many of our fellow citizens and, above all, the people in the region are watching him and being informed by him. I would also like to point out that regional press, regional television, promote public debate and, above all, local democracy. And since we are talking about the regional press, I would remind SYRIZA colleagues that strengthening the regional press on SYRIZA was only two and a half weeks before the elections. Obviously, SYRIZA as a government did not have time to do so earlier or something else he wanted to succeed. Also, the advertising tax from 20% was only 5% two weeks before the elections. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] All of this demonstrates the way you were thinking, the way you were operating and the way you were acting when you were government. For our Government, it goes without saying that we support the media sector, but also the jobs that are contained there, as we have been doing in recent years with the support of businesses, private and local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the media sector is one of the most important pillars of our democracy, and that is why we are legislating to make it transparent, correct and to contribute to the proper timely and sound information for our citizens. Once again, we are legislating to make the leap in the future, realising the criticality of the moments, because when we do well in the post-COVID era, the broadcasting market should be adapted to the new conditions, the new digital environment and above all ready to seize the new opportunities and opportunities that will be presented before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Canelle from the Communist Party of Greece via Webex now has the floor. Can you hear us, Mrs. Canelle? Mrs. Kanelle is hard to connect right now. I'll ask if Mrs. Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA could take the floor via Webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u154	Madam President, I am Mrs Eleftheriadou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u155	Excuse me, Mr. Kalamatiane, I had another list. I'm sorry. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u156	Thank you. Madam President, today we are debating a bill on the media and I am starting with the new government failure. All last week we heard the meteorologists warn that bad weather and intense snowfall are coming. We heard from the media that the government and the state mechanism are preparing themselves with intensity, care and study to cope with bad weather. We have heard that the Civil Protection Committee is ready to intervene. What was the result? In the first snowfall, the country was cut at two. With the first snow, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chryssohoidis, decided yesterday to ban traffic on the highway, suffering hundreds of drivers. There was no update from the emergency number "112, the machines, supposedly ready to clear the roads, as they were saying, were not put into operation. The Region of Attica was absent. Toll management companies, which - according to the law and the contracts - have an obligation to maintain and keep the roads open not only will there be no responsibility, but they may also be compensated, since the road has been closed by government order. Within the nineteen months of your administration for the second time the national road closes due to snowfall. So ready is your Government and so effective your state! We are sorry to hear that we have also had human losses in Evia and Lassithi. Many areas were found without power. Many of the public transport services in Athens do not work If all this had happened with a SYRIZA government, we all know the very strict criticism we would have heard from the media about the ministers, the district minister, the government and the Prime Minister. Now on TV channels simple descriptions of snow and problems are made. The protection that your Government enjoys from the vast majority of television channels, private and state, is unprecedented. The modulation of topicality, silence and concealment shall be on a agenda. The case of ERT with the note, the recent note, compliance with the workers' rules, is characteristic not to show the bank of Prime Minister and Ministers in Ikaria with more than twenty people, without, of course, complying with any health protocol that the government itself has adopted. Let us recall that the Samara-Venezelu conflict had closed down ERT because the workers did not fully obey its orders. Let us note, of course, that such notes do not need the majority of private channels. There workers know in advance what is pleasurable and what is not, what to play and what is not. We are not talking about all this, of course, just the ones we are talking about. These practices have been perceived by institutions, journalists and the media outside, which are not linked to your Government and are not on the Pecha lists to hide the truth. You know that Greece for 2020 ranks in the last positions of the press freedom list in Europe, published by the European Parliament in cooperation with journalists without borders. You know that Greece for 2020 has been in the thirty-seventh place worldwide for the level of its democracy, according to the Universal Charter of democratic freedoms drawn up by the Economic Intelligence Unity. It has taken a very low position for a European Union country. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen: is that what we are being honored as a country? Do you think they deserve us? SYRIZA's president, Alexis Tsipras, proposed the appointment of a new administration to the ERT with a cross-party consensus. In his honor, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Kaklamanis, said that this proposal was in line with it and said that he had previously proposed it. But you won't. You will not accept this proposal because you are completely opposed to the logic of fair regulation of the broadcasting landscape. You are not interested in objective and free information at all. With the bill you are going to vote on, enter provisions - gifts in order to maintain your convenient protection from the media, misinformation or voice. Seal your neoliberal idiosyncrasy is the deregulation of industrial relations for the benefit of employers - owners. L.4339/2015, the well-known Pappa Law provides for four hundred employees as a minimum number on each Greek-wide channel. It thus ensures full-time jobs and the proper functioning of the channels. Now you enter a new way of calculating the annual average staff of television stations. This will not only be made up of full-time workers from each channel. The owner of the television channel will be able to circumvent this minimum cap. It will be possible to measure up to 15% of the number of four hundred and employees from related companies. It will therefore be transported workers who will follow the current needs of the channel and the ergonomic will. Of course, there is no provision to avoid abusive practices and not to result in workers being employed in both undertakings at the same time. Nor is there any control over how, when, and what objects they will eventually be engaged in after they have been transferred. Thus, workers will be brought to a state of insecurity, dependence and subjection. In addition to the 'packages' at work, however, you do not leave the gifts in direct money. With Article 42 of the bill, you allow the owners of the channels to receive a discount of up to 98.6% at the amount of the instalment due for 2020. You give them that possibility, even if the TV station had any profits. You are giving very large sums to the owners of the channels, with the pretext of investing in a programme, technological equipment and infrastructure. And the question is: Why are you linking private investment and the development of a private company by removing the obligation to pay a price for the provision of a public good, such as a broadcasting frequency? Why do you remove the obligation to pay the State from a private company that uses the public property because it will invest in its business? That's never heard of! You don't do it for any other business. You're doing it for the channels. Unfortunately, these questions are left unanswered. In addition, to complete the present, you allow holders to repay what remains in eighty-four or ninety-six instalments. So it turns out that you're open-handed when it comes to presents to channel owners, but you do it to your own children too. With Article 45 of the bill under discussion, you increase the additional pay to the members of the PSE. You are liberating the fees of the ERT administration, the Special Advisers, the Directors, the Heads and the selected employees. You do the same with the Athenian Agency. You do this while these positions are covered and we are in a pandemic and economic recession. Try to control things in every way, keep public opinion in lethargy, present an ideal state of reality. How will you do that? With the media in full cooperation with you or subjection. You are enjoying public money or you are not collecting it with charismatic provisions. But this is not a democracy based on free information and the rule of law. You are increasingly approaching Hungarian-type regimes. But know that no matter how much you're trying to change reality by controlling information, the truth will find a chimney to be revealed. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. We're talking about a double-cut knife today, because we have to tell you that we have two high-speed television families. We have the Athenian-centric model at a television level as it is structured and the regional channels, which really grow. I will go a little beyond Article 8 there that you are playing with fire, what we denounced as a Greek solution to unconstitutionalism, as far as membership of a national minority is concerned. Because, you know, words make a difference, but words run into dangers in the future, for future historians, so that the messenger of Hail does not open and the next generation of sins pay. So, skinally, do not touch this because it is of historical importance to the Treaty of Lausanne and the Treaty of Neighbourhood, as far as religious minorities are concerned, and that is where we must insist. But we discussed this. Just, once again, the Greek Solution warns about history. Let's go to the channels a little. Nowadays all these canal children work under difficult and black working conditions - and in large and smaller channels - because neither Sundays are paid or the most hours worked, but most canals rely on the love of these children for the object they serve. I am saying this because I have been doing television in the region since 1989, a 30-year period. I was privileged to make the first news release, because "TVS" was the first private channel to pass on to Greece before the Athens channels in August 1989. But be careful. The channels of the region in the new digital age are being murdered with the 'DIGEA'. There is a monopoly, with contracts signed for 15 years and today the channels pay no more than a little money to 'DIGEA', where half the programme ads are to cover only 'DIGEA'. What's left for the rest of the operation? What to stay for the workers? What's left of profit? For other reasons, they give a fight, so that they can have them well with the local authority, so that we don't hide ourselves. But I give you an example. The two channels of Serres are administratively owned in central Macedonia, but they broadcast to "DIGEA" in eastern Macedonia. They pay 3,500 euros a month, but if they touch in central Macedonia, they will pay 5,000, because population criteria are in place. And I ask you, because there is a lot of discussion with ERT because we murder regional television in this way, as with 'auto-management', as with 'GEA', as with intellectual rights, which we say not to pay the channels, but the issue is where the money goes. There's another parameter there. The Greek Solution commits against the artistic world to present data and documentary where the money has gone and where the money they pay and the channels and radios and all the shops and today artists had to be well paid, in the case of the pandemic we live in. Because there was no effective control over where the money is going and the GDPI and now the 'auto-management' that the channels are paying for. The people here in central Macedonia are therefore uninformed about what is being said, because the channels are forced to be'swiped' in another region, where they are now unable to bear all these costs. So journalists and workers on the regional channels are working with their good hearts and goodwill and are not paid for the money they deserve. But you are pushing the canals in this situation with a robbery 'DIGEA'. And I ask, because there is a great deal of talk about public television at the moment: so that they do not have the right to touch a digital provider on public television? To have competition - competition? Not in this way, however, where five to six channels are the ones that really manage the digital terrestrial platform, hence the words ‘DIGEA’ and ‘GEA’ against the regional channels. Today, therefore, the channels of the region are being called upon to pay the DIGEA, without having any revenue. For example, if an Orestiada shop is advertised on a Serres channel, they will not really be able to make any revenue there because the consumer cannot go from Serres to Orestiad. On the other hand, large channels have the advantage of multinationals, so the revenues are too large. I give you an example. The GDPI - and now 'auto-management' - in the region's media calls for money in particular by means of threatening calls, as in the channels and threatens actions not at this stage, because the turnover is small. It says to them 'permanent charismatics'. On the contrary, in Athens' channels and radios mainly, where advertising is per second, per second we say in advertising orders, it takes them money depending on turnover. Two yards and two weights. Where is this notorious law of 1995, 30% of state advertising? It shall not apply, despite the complaints made. It does not commit the Ministry, as now with the New Democracy, to a detailed situation. 30% must go to regional TV to survive, more generally the region. You know, it's a sample of whether the New Democracy Government is evangelizing regional development. So this law of 30% does not apply. Why? Now you're gonna tell me, after we privatized everything, PPC gave me some time. And there, of course, these media shops, advertising companies, and they get almost a little money as a supply and stay less on the channels. But that can't be. Now by privatising PPC, by privatising the banks, despite their recapitalisation, a large part of State advertising will also be lost, but it does not apply. In audiovisual production there should be quality productions. You know, we're talking about a kid and a TV. Get into a big research done in France. It is the so-called '3-6-9-12' of a great French psychiatrist how new generations will be protected from digitalized technology of the time, i.e. television and internet. There is therefore a study that has been accepted in France by the association of children in general. It is an investigation by the Serge Tisseron which is being applied outright, if we want to protect both children and vulnerable groups. Once upon Kostas Karamanlis - I remember - we were talking about a rural channel that does not exist in Greece. We have not even given this House - which we have said and mentioned as Greek Solution - an emphasis on production in general in the primary livestock sector. So I remember when Costas Karamanlis - in 2005 he must have been - talking about establishing a rural television channel for informing farmers, farmers and fishermen - which is missing from Greece - with themes of television at the time we were going to do. In any case, we are talking about a two-speed television. There are so-called 'priorities' and 'parents' on television, those who are too much of the money from large-scale advertising products - have this possibility - and the money they receive from the government and the region's television, which is neglected and unfair. However, once again we must stress that the core without satellites cannot function. He must have the protons and the electrons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Comrade, you need to close down slowly, please. You've been in eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u160	Otherwise, we cannot have an integrated one - I conclude, Madam President - regional television with substance. To apply the 1995 law and to an ERR that sees itself showing some tragic images that scare the world and tease them more if the National Broadcasting Council really wants to have a strict criticism from Dimitris Marouda's time and in 1989 that has been established. And today the channels are waiting for government advertising to stand on their feet. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u161	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Constantinidis has the floor from New Democracy, and I would ask you to look at the clock so that we don't get away from our time. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, from the ongoing debate on audiovisual media, what has become quite clear is that the legislative framework needed regulation. It also needed regulation in respect of the scope of the reference to Directive 2018/1808, which is incorporated with the first part of the draft law to be adopted, which redefined the scope for the operation and jurisdiction of providers established in the European Union, but needed modernisation and the internal ecosystem of television broadcasting and electronic media. And that is perfectly reasonable and obvious, since this field is well known and it is sure that in the near future too - in the near future, further revisions will be required in order to keep up with technological change and consumer habits every time. Today, every computer, every telephone device still is not just a means of communication among the citizens, but mainly an instrument for the consumption of audiovisual material, whether it is organized commercial production or an amateur. The nature of such media and their services is thus more similar to that of traditional television channels. This is why every form of projection - whether classic TV or video-sharing platform or social media - should be regulated by the same way. Furthermore, the provisions of the law achieve the same level of protection from all means for the consumer and thus form an environment of equal rights and obligations between them. The second part of the draft law attempts to make necessary adjustments, which are also made imperative by evolution, but also by the data produced by the effects of the health crisis on the market. For this reason, it would be difficult to see the obligation to register all companies in the PSE register, the changes in the conditions for the transfer or transformation of a television channel licensed undertaking, the related arrangements for the transfer and the incompatible radio companies or the abolition of the anachronistic ban on loans by partners and members to the television station company, but also the possibility of a change in the nature of a radio and television broadcasting programme until final licences are issued. Furthermore, the following provisions - very important - to enhance accessibility for audiovisual media services to disabled persons, to supervise new and rapidly evolving media, such as video platforms, where the landscape there is even more complex, since each user is sometimes becoming a producer of material, with the more specific provisions for advertising - direct and indirect - to promote content that is judged to be harmful, dangerous for the development of minors and the material that stimulates acts of violence or hatred and is pushed to commit terrorist acts. On the other hand, the provision to promote European projects and producers is very important with the obligation to promote these from the platforms. There is a corresponding clause for 30% of the projects offered, and the provision for the financial contribution of 1.5% of the turnover for Greece to service providers based elsewhere, but they are addressed to the Greek public, a line from which Greek films and series will be financed, alternatively the National Centre for Audiovisual and Communications. A great debate also took place in support of the media - central and regional - on the one hand, of the people who are serving the information, especially in the Greek region, who have asked for more permanent measures in relation to the regulated, in order to create conditions for sustainability and thus ensure jobs. On the other hand, the anticipated dust was lifted by the Accuracy mainly opposition, which is unfairly protesting about an alleged attempt to manipulate the means, since its term of office exposes it irreparably. It was brought to light on these issues and the Secretary-General replied with information on SYRIZA's provision to the channels, 20% of the television tax that did it 5% in 2017, with an annual budget cost of EUR 20 million and an extension of this reduction to the regional channels only a few days before the Euro-elections. In substance, however, the arrangements are necessary to set a date for the authorisation of regional and thematic television stations and must be complied with for the financial support of power stations with a debt netting obligation to upgrade their equipment - and this is an important provision - for the exemption of regional TV stations from the payment of 1.5% of annual advertising revenue for the production of film works and from the other tax - a special advertising tax - amounting to 5%, for the support of their contributions due to the ancillary insurance body of their staff for the years 2017 and 2020. And perhaps we should also see for the period after 2020 what is going to happen with this provision. All the above interventions, as well as other institutional measures, were essential in terms of instruments and, above all, in terms of regional instruments, of which people give hardship, daily and staff - I will say - a struggle in the difficult conditions of recent years, since they are generally individual or small enterprises with a significant production of work and a great deal of resonance for local communities. Finally, within this very fast-changing environment, it is necessary and the interventions that are being made to make ERT more competitive and the National Broadcasting Council more effective in its multi-dimensional role, ensuring public television and independent authority self-evident tools. It is therefore clear from what I said that the draft law brings necessary and positive action in the current context, and that is why I am voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u163	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Now Mr. Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much. Madam President, in all the bills I always say that what we need to investigate - and in fact deep - is the principle and philosophy of each bill. And the philosophy of this bill is obvious, obvious and almost revealing - I would say - since no one doubts that it is no longer a bill of protection of the interests of the Canadian authorities, of the systemic, especially of the regional, particularly of the four, five systemic media ranges. And this is revealing at a time when Greek society really is squeezing, suffering, struggling, desperate, indignant, wrathful, also for reasons of the prestige and the economic crisis. And of course no one will ask why the government is rushing to financially support the owners of the systemic media, the channels, I would say. Because, Madam President, it is well known that television today has been proven - all the relevant philosophers and scientists, media politicians, are seeing it - along with education is the main production of knowledge. And while education produces knowledge, particularly television and the media in general, in addition to knowledge today, they also form an opinion and even collective opinion, and from there they draw the very great political, economic, ideological, if you like, and institutional power. It has been said that social and political power is now in technology and that over the past twenty or thirty years they have been equated with discoveries in the technological sciences of ages and millenniums. So every year in technology we have huge achievements and these are mainly capitalised by the media with their emissions. I would schematically say that a global dimension is now given in history, as time is zeroed in the second, which means that space and time are zeroed. I would ask the Minister, Mr. Livano, something we were asking in 2016-2017, the mediators who produced as witnesses from the Committee of Inquiry of the Parliament. Have you ever wondered, Minister, why businessmen who have various actions, business and economic successes, which are profitable, why at the same time are they seeking to have a channel which is not profitable at least? It's proven. Imagine that in 2016 the debts of the media were EUR 1.3 billion. Today I don't know. You are not telling us what the debts are, the debts in general. I think it's too much. In particular, credit obligations are not met and are not fulfilled. So why do they want a channel? Mr Levanière, it has now been proved - and we say in our conclusion in 2017 - that they want it, because apart from the economic power they have, they want to have political and ideological power and, above all, political power, because with political power they can put pressure on every ministry, on every government to take measures and take decisions in order to serve its most interests. Here's what a conductor said, testifying a jury in our committee. One of us said: 'We used to go up and down governments. In fact, we made most of the composition of the Ministerial Council.' Another cynic master, but honestly said: "For us objective information and objective information there is no information". Does the state know that? The state knows. He knows them. Does the PSE know? He understands it. It's written. And one would expect an initiative by the Greek state to move towards the strengthening of the PSE in such a way that its constitutional role and obligation are fulfilled. Because that is what exercises the direct control of the state, the PSE, as the Constitution says in Article 15(2). That's it. No one else can exercise control, despite the fact that, with your bill, we are subject to the assignment of a non-monitoring department. Direct state control is much stricter than supervision. Part of the control is now assigned to you, Minister. And that was the basis of the objection of unconstitutionalism from Mera25, which was both valid and legitimate. So I would say that we have a diversion of the key role of the media. What is the main, the primary role of a mediator? Control power, Minister, and the way in which it is exercised and managed. Is that what's going on today? Oh, no. It is not just power that they control the media today, especially systemic channels, whose interests today you are supporting with benefits and gifts. The others said it. Don't repeat it. Because the role of these instruments has been completely diverted and instead of controlling the power exercised by the government or by other bodies that are the major politicians and institutions of the Greek society, they are practically opposed to the opposition parties. We have never seen a systematic monitoring of governmental decisions and actions. Not even one! The pandemic has no consequences, the economic crisis has not yet come to Greece and let it narrow down 80% of the Greek people, businesses, scientists, professionals, workers. No research, no substantial proposals and research, no report exists, because everything is well-inhabited by the government. This is the institutional diversion of the role of SMEs. We are not saying that what is good for society is not supported. To be supported, of course. But it is not systematically, solely because of the work of government officials and ministers. It can't be done! And it's the only country in the world that's ever done, that's the role of systemic media. And you make your little presents. That is what you really want to buy. That's what you're doing. You're doing business, Minister. The previous ones said so. Gifts from here, facilities from there. Is it possible to provide public goods such as frequency, and to relieve the one who makes use of public frequency, 98.6%? But it's 100% discharge. On what grounds and justification? You don't even have an excuse, not a reason. What do you mean? Do they have a crisis? Tell us which channels that are now favoured have a crisis and to what extent. Do they have negative or positive effects? Because the information tells us that at the time of the pandemic the audience of the channels and the advertising product is therefore growing. So you're not telling us. You are also not telling us, Minister, why it can be financed or favoured, anyway, financially, because it invests in technology equipment or of the type of investment. Isn't it in the program of a company, a company to invest, to improve, so that it's ready to face the present and the future? Does it have to be financed for this reason by the state corps, by the Greek taxpayers' fund? Who else are you doing this for? The coffee maker who buys the coffee maker, will you strengthen him? Simple as that. Look at what common sense is. You don't. And that's a scandalous arrangement. You'll find her in front of you. You will find her in front of you. Another point which I would like to raise, Madam President, is this. In the original wording of Article 8, Minister, as it was, I said it in my speech as saying in the objections to anti-constitutionalism - without wanting it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u165	You'll have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u166	I shall conclude, Madam President. It brought Article 8(2), paragraph 2, to discuss the major issue that it was, to be and to be an object for the country's legal world. In other words, the transposition or incorporation of a Community directive, which is likely to run counter to a fundamental right guaranteed by constitutional law, what is going on? What's the primary law? Who's out of line? I would like to say that as far as fundamental rights are concerned, such as Article 14, freedom of expression for which censorship, whatever incorporation, whatever the directive, is concerned, must be adapted in the context of protecting this fundamental right. I have not yet seen the recast you have made, but I am telling you that whatever recast you are doing, the content of the regulation referred to in Article 8(2) must take into account the provision of Article 14, that the expression is free and cannot be restricted or censored. That's what you're looking at. I haven't seen the layout yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u168	I should like to close, Madam President, on the proposal of our President, Alexis Tsipras. There is no proposal with greater credibility and solvency for the political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u170	I'm closed, Madam President. The administration of a public radio and television body, such as ERT, should finally be chosen - the entire administration, not only the chairman - by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency at the rate of 4/5. So the political system and credibility will win...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u172	And the administration of the ERT will also be credible and will not be followed by any party's own administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Comrade, thank you. But you're close to ten minutes. Please. Take time from colleagues. That's what I told you. Please. There's this time tolerance, but not so much. Please. Mrs Euthymou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President and Minister, I will be placed in this bill and through the experience I have had in my capacity as Deputy spokesman for the New Democracy media in Northern Greece. And I will start with two basic points. Firstly, it is the speed with which the Minister completed the draft law and its publicity - at least as I saw it from the committee's minutes, but I have studied them in detail - to strengthen fundamental pillars on the one hand information and on the other hand production and promotion of culture. I am referring to its availability, in the first case, to the reinforcement of the PSE by staff and equipment and, secondly, to the support of the National Film Centre for the development of Greek film production, which is very important, especially in the period of the pandemic that we are experiencing and which has been affected by the cultural sector very, very, very critically. I have expressed many times both from the Step of the House and from the instrument of parliamentary control the need to support the people of culture in a very uncharted landscape of labour relations which is difficult and which for the first time attempts to make the Government of New Democracy. And the second point I would like to make is that in spite of what is heard individually in the field of journalism, I would like to say that a vast majority of journalists are doing their job as a function, with principles and ethics, and often with self-sacrifice. Obviously, the media area also needs rules and transparency, with respect for workers, with respect for the report, with respect for the citizens. Mr Minister, I would like to draw your attention to this point. I would like to state that the regulation made by this bill - and, at the same time, I would like to say to Mr Lappa on the philosophy of the bill - is realistic, that is to say, adapted to the data of modern reality on the threefold 'content - media and platform owners - workers'. And Minister, it is also in line with the philosophy of the New Democracy reform programme, as was recently reflected in the recent interview by the Minister of State of the State of Gerapetritis in the newspaper 'TA NEWS'. Based on the above elements, I'm going to be more specific, and I'm going to get to the point of the bill. We live in the era of television on demand. We live in a time when we are all in front of our screens and downloaded Facebook applications, Instagram, Twitter, Youtube. In fact, social media have penetrated our lives and to a large extent affected it and reshaped it. Let me testify that an investigation by the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in collaboration with the Institute "REUTERS" shows that Greek users are turning to social media in order to inform them more and significantly, to a greater extent than users in other countries that also use often and highly the social media. So this bill regulates audiovisual content in all forms of projection and reproduction, whether this is traditional or on-demand, either video-sharing platforms or social media services. Here too, I would like to raise a very important issue, the protection of minors from harmful content on the Internet. We've seen recently popular platforms like Youtube and TikTok. In particular, I shall refer to the latter, where there have also been suicides of minors through this game. So, they're gonna have to get rules in. That's for granted. It's a fact. We'll have to protect minors. I am well aware of the fact that technology is running, evolving and always legislation goes back, it follows, and it is difficult to prevent it. And I say that, because I had sufficient experience as president of the "Young" organization together with the Department of Electronic Crime, we have entered schoolrooms on the issue of protecting minors from the harmful content of the Internet. In fact, as a 'Youth' organisation, we were the first to do research on social networks at least ten or eleven years back. So this draft law provides for a very important regulation in this direction. With regard to the other provisions of the bill, namely the work of the channels as a worker, I have often handled the cases of journalists claiming their wages paid. But there is also a reality, a reality that we must see. First time we hear the channels are working with production companies? For the first time, do we hear that the channels have co-operating companies that employ staff for their productions? This isn't the first time obviously. But the solution to this is a systematic check for the proper implementation of labour legislation. But there is also a prerequisite for media workers to exist. So, as the government makes a very important and dynamic effort to support all businesses, it considers it necessary to support the media as well. And it was heard by the bodies, as the president of the Association of Private Television Stations, Mr. Kyrikopoulos, said that during the pandemic period television stations had a 50% reduction in revenue. Therefore, support for the media sectors also ensures jobs. At the same time, in the context of media support, this bill substantially strengthens the regional press. I was a substitute spokesperson and had the media in northern Greece, which is mostly regional. I am very aware of the importance of the regional press for local communities, the highlightation of local issues, local figures. So it is very important that the support given through these regulations in the regional press is very important. In particular, I am talking about exempting television stations from the payment of 1.5% of their annual advertising revenues for the production of film works and from the special advertising tax of 5% to 31-12-2022, which gives a breath. Mr Demetriou used the same expression in hearing the bodies as President of their union. There was a strong criticism of the ERT's wages. I think the ERT has taken important steps in the past eighteen months. I'll just say, that looks like numbers. It is the free on-line platform on demand, Ertflix. This demonstrates progress. Inside, therefore, from the logic of the highly competitive environment in the channels, there should also be a high-demand and specific ERT for the logic of the remuneration that is commensurate with the services offered. Nothing more, nothing more. Finally, it is attempting with this bill to put a solution to a major issue with ERCEA. It is possible to finance the coverage of due media contributions to the EDPS for the years 2017 to 2020. That leaves them a great burden. And, of course, it is also positive that the possibility of regulating employers' contributions for the years 2017 to 2020 is introduced in seventy-two instalments. I will not enter the present debate on the canalarchs to which SYRIZA referred. All I will say is, to justify SYRIZA's buta card criticism, and not of course that we support the media, is that 20%, the advertising tax, was 5% of the then government of SYRIZA in May 2019, two weeks from the European elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u175	You have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u176	To conclude, therefore, the government with this bill attempts to put order in the media landscape with provisions adapted to the modern reality and the proper functioning of the media, focusing on users and citizens, supporting these instruments and respecting workers. I am therefore voting in favour of the bill and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u177	Thank you too, my colleague. The reason for Mrs Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement is now seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of an unprecedented bad weather which hits all over Greece, but especially Attica. Too many municipalities, too many neighbourhoods of Attica are in blackout. It's either powerless or waterless. The state must act immediately and fully, at the most rapid rate, in order to immediately restore these damages. I hope, Madam President, that I too have had a lasting power cut since the morning, during my speech, that the current will not fall and I will have to get out. So let's start over this bill. I would first like to refer to the reports of the National Broadcasting Council, which were analysed and presented the previous time in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. It is a very important issue, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, because the problem of SYRIZA has arisen, but unfortunately there is still an unacceptable attitude of the current and government, since 90% of the presentations on the central channels are from the New Democracy and Syriza, of course with overwhelming supremacy of the government. And I think we are reasonable to wonder whether this is a pluralism or pluralism within a democracy, such as ours. Is it comprehensive and objective information that enables all forces to present their positions sufficiently well? No way! And SYRIZA may shout - and he does - but he may not forget that he is a partner in all this unequal sharing with victims of the four of the six Parts of Parliament and, of course, starting from the third, which is the Change Movement. On the other hand, the government responds with an attempt to set off, saying to SYRIZA that "you too are doing the same". But this ping pong, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all understand that it does not lead anywhere. After all, we have not forgotten what was happening when we had SYRIZA's previous governance - ANEL with the behind-the-military movements against the media, hunting witches against journalists, with anti-constitutional laws and much more. But what's going to happen? Are we going to criticise - and rightly so - against what has happened or is being done at the moment to move forward or to perpetuate injustices and diseases by simply saying that 'you are doing the same'? We must finally put an end to all this. Now with regard to the bill, the aim of this bill is, as the Secretariat-General for Communication and Information says, to create a new regulatory framework, reflecting digital progress and updating the legislation on audiovisual media services, as we are already in a new era, which is constantly evolving in the era of YouTube, in the period of Netflix, in the new platforms and we must adapt to all these new conditions. In essence, therefore, with the debate and the vote or not of this bill, we are called upon to address issues which, on a case-by-case basis, concern and effectively regulate the functioning of the media throughout this new, new reality, the ever-changing reality. Our position as a Change Movement is always and especially in this case in the direction of constructive and substantial criticism as Opposition, remote from any old-fashioned opposition tactics. With that, therefore, I would like to make a few brief remarks. Firstly, of course, this bill also has some positive regulations, particularly concerning the incorporation of the directive, such as a ban on the incitement by audiovisual means to violence, hatred against social groups or the execution of terrorist offences, an increase in the accessibility of disabled people to audiovisual media services by strengthening very useful tools, such as signifi­cantism, such as the introduction of accountability for providers, etc. and, of course, a series of arrangements for the protection of minors, which further support the protection of their physical, mental and moral development. Younger children are watching audiovisual material online, including content...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u179	My colleague, we're not listening to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you how today's process is going and we will be interrupting some time to continue tomorrow morning. Now the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Katsis, first of all from SYRIZA, will speak immediately after Mr. Bukouros from New Democracy, Mr. Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece - I tell you in the order you asked to speak - and lastly Mr. Scandalidis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u180	Madam President, excuse me. If I understood correctly, will the meeting continue tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u181	Yes, Mr. Comrade. We will be stopping today because of the weather phenomena, because we all have to leave so that we can get back to our homes and the workers and we will continue to do so tomorrow. We'll tell you exactly when the process begins. At 11 o'clock we'll start tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u183	I apologize for this anomaly, but we can't do any different.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u184	This government is the least possible anomaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u185	Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while we are entering the third wave of pandemic, when we have exceeded the six thousand dead and hundreds of fellow citizens, we are fighting the virus in our country's outdated hospitals, while the Greek people are locked up in their homes and seeing with terror and anguish the new economic crisis, the government's priority is a bill on media service, such as what we are discussing today. Before going into this, however, I would like to refer to the mess of the management of an intense weather event, the "Medea", a bad weather known for days ago where you prevented Greece in two. Whose decision has that been made? But with whom else, of course? The Super-Minister, Mr Chrysochide, who is ironically in power of education, health, civil protection and infrastructure and transport. I really do not know whether it is the Government of New Democracy or whether it is the 'Government of Chrysochoid' with spokesmen Mr Mitsotakis. The same recipe is followed for everything. In front of your panic and in fear of political costs you are attacking bans and preventative closures, as yesterday the snow was still very low and the roads were completely open. The result is hundreds of drivers trapped in extreme conditions and, at the same time, Sporades, Evia, Attica without power in the middle of a glacier. Where are the open roads you've taken? Where is the private concessionaire? Did you close it yesterday preventatively or even exceptionally, because according to Law 4663/2020 fines are provided for the concessionaire if the road is closed for more than an hour and you also exempt it from the cost-effective cleaning and safety mechanism? However, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we do not just have the "Media" as well. Mr Chrysochoidis is on the channel and he is trying to justify the opening - close the national road by saying that there is a risk of life. At the same time, Mr. Chardalias comes out to tell us that "112" did not need to know the journalists and were not threatened with human lives. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] Officially, we have television democracy and officially television and perfect Babel. Well, aren't you ministers talking? Then the journalists come out to tell us and justify every act of the government, and in the past they detonated cords, did telegrams in the state mechanism. And here is the composition of all these in this draft law, which concerns the media, because the more the government's failure is revealed, the more its need for communication is growing. Propaganda is now your only disobey to justify unjustified and to remain in your chairs. And it is not only Mr Petsas or Mr Lebanese who make this lisverish, which affects free information, pluralism and, ultimately, democracy. It is Mr Mitsotakis himself, the most insecure post-multiple Prime Minister who does not tolerate the slightest amount of public criticism. As an opposition, he accused SYRIZA of trying to manipulate the media, for SYRIZOERT, who were going in with tanks, according to Bogdan, and as Prime Minister he came and did all of this, which he falsely gave us the above. After taking all the media sector, the ERT, the RES - ICM, under its supervision, put hands on the public funds at an hour, in fact, emptying from the pandemic and sharing millions of opaque and clienteles with the Petsa lists, gifts and exemptions to the media, as he did wherever he wanted. So what was the result of all this? Greek-wide channels of speech about Ikaria, bleaching the government from morning to night and fighting citizens on live streams because they are discomfortful. Great information sites we saw playing with non paper the news directly, as these come from the invisible editor of Maximos. In the public ERT, we saw that Mr Zoulas should be appointed President, and then that the statement of the position to fill the President in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, Mr Zoulas, who was the director of Mr Mitsotakis' Press Office, should come out. We see wallpapers sticking at the doors to prevent the Prime Minister from playing the footage of Ikaria and images of Mr. Lignade, his chosen, for the administration of the National Theatre with government officials and himself. We see reports from a student who defends Mrs Kerameos's "exhaust" bill on education, and then reveals that she is a secretary of the ADI, an eternal student, even. Congratulations on both your independence and pluralism. The whole Opposition denounces the unprecedented censorship and the conversion of ERT into a vulgar propaganda mechanism of Maximos. And what do you say? You have shared a non paper to your Members and you say the exact same story. What exactly do you answer? Firstly, our polls confirm. You presented a survey by MARC, according to which citizens are very satisfied with ERT, a survey that ERT itself paid for three times how much of market prices, as it had done before. We have asked you a question on this, Minister. As far as external production is concerned, we see exorbitant costs and clientele effects. You've shared 10 million for just four productions. You are galanos - it is the truth - with the public funds. The information piece you've consciously devalued. "Here ERT, here is ERT, speaks to you in Maximos," said Mr. Zoulas from his post when he was in Antipopulation. You are celebrating the committees and your Members here with no paper on television. Really, what are you celebrating? All your MPs are out and talking about the show. Can you give us a clue? No one says anything. So you're general anointings. How old was ERT? It was 5% mediated on SYRIZA's governance, 5% mediated in New Democracy. How do you plead with what elements of doubling the viewing? May I give you the data on NIELSEN's measurements on the news report in January 2021? It was 5.4. By January 2020, how much was it, a year ago? 6,7. We had a 20% reduction. December 2020 was 5,2 and December 2019 5,8. Where and where? You'll probably mean the production of mythoplasty. I'll tell you later about it. Second argument: Yes, but SYRIZA did the same. First of all, let's make it clear, let's be clean. SYRIZA in 2015 did not even receive ERT from the Samara - Venizelos government. You had thrown it 'black', stirring up a storm of reactions both inside and outside the country. We reopened it, upgraded its equipment, brought hybrid services first. And what did you do? You made a rename. The ERT Hybrid did it Ertflix. Okay, good. In the patent and the idea of throwing a nice label to make poaching you are very good, very good. But hybrid services have come for the first time, SYRIZA. We made myths in difficult times and played the permanent staff of the ERT and left a reserve of 200 million. Full of funds we left. You say the following: 'The ERT of Akrivopoulou' and you, Mr Minister, said it yourself: 'The ERT of Akrivopoulou and Cassochah'. You forget, however, that in the panels on these emissions, there was also Mr Papachlyminzos, who now has a broadcast to the ERT, Mrs Giotakis, Mrs Triantafyllou, on the broadcasts you are talking about. Today what journalist is there really to justify pluralism? You've cut off all ERT's informational emissions and the newsletters you've been doing propaganda with written instructions - this is the reality -, instructions that you don't play the Ikaria registrar that played as - as after SYRIZA's reaction. Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA invited you to dismiss Mr Zula after all this and to appoint a new administration with a cross-party consensus by Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency, to make this permanent from now on, to stop suspicion, to ensure pluralism and pluralism of information, but also to stop direct assignments, overcompensations and appointments of others. We have therefore tabled to you since the beginning of the meeting an amendment for the cross-party selection of the ERT administration by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Here is the Rhodes here and the opportunity to prove that you mean what is light and hypocritically invoked. So respond to our proposal for both citizens and us to draw the relevant conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, the tight embrace of media with power is severely dangerous to democracy. The evidence is creepy. The country is classified third from the end of the twenty-seventh European Union in a 'Reporter without Frontiers' study on behalf of the European Parliament. In a 2018 survey by the International Organisation of "PEW" Greeks are last among thirty-eight peoples in the confidence they show in the media in information. According to the “Reuters Institute Digital News” for 2020, only 28% of respondents in Greece trusted the news. It is really a disappointing situation, considering that the SYRIZA government has fought to make the tender and the television licences, which is also valid today, to secure jobs in the channels, to collect the advertising tax, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the advertising tax that has never been collected. We collected 150 million of frequency and tax charges in the four years that SYRIZA ruled. They were never collected. And you're talking about the advertising tax that we reduced from 20% to 5% in the election? And tell you what? Who's the tax on advertising? Who's paying him? The channels pay him or the advertisers? The channels render him an intermediary. Well, are you serious, or are you not aware of the framework after the collection of all that you had never collected because of the fact that they should at last pay to the EDEA? But they had paid for both frequencies and license. You also abolished the electronic system for the disposal of television advertising time. Let ETUC reopen, let's re-set the public television on her feet. SYRIZA had tried to bring the country up and managed to rank it in his press freedom ranking since the position of ninety-nine, which was in 2014, in position sixty-five in 2019. And what did you do? From 2019 until today we have stayed in exactly the same position. Unfortunately, you are turning us back and gradually squeezing what you are asked of the employers - canalarchs. You reduce the number of television channels workers required by four hundred of the so-called Pappa Law to three hundred forty, promoting the elasticity of the work and the transported workers. All employees in the media are against what you bring. And what are you doing? You are giving each channel 3,45 million corresponding to the 2020 dose for frequency licensing. You set aside self-evident investments in program equipment with the dues. And while the channels have been subsidized three times - one list of Petsa, one "Investing in Greece" by the Minister of Development and "Investment" Mr. Georgiadis, they have entered the development law... Yes, you're laughing, Mr. Bukowo, that's right. They have also been subsidized by the developmentist. Also, by EKOME, the tool, yes, introduced by SYRIZA and brought mythology, series and the world of culture found work. However, you did not provide any provision, no care, that the channels should go all over the Greek territory and give high definition signal to the entire Greek territory except to the large urban centres. You have given up until the end of 2021 channels to broadcast only to the high-definition urban centres and not to the periphery. Mr. Boukoro, really, does the "MEGA" or "ANT1" or any other? It's not working. It doesn't work in Thesprotia, however. I'm telling you, for the sake of knowledge. But you do not, tell the channels that at least so that there is a isology and that all citizens have the same access, that they have the same right to the same quality of content. You do not allow the channels to purchase equipment so that they can transmit high-definition signal. Mr President, I am also using my dentistry. In the blue strains, in the administration of ERT, that is, in the RES - ICM, you raise their wages to the levels of Areopagite. However, to the ERT workers, you do not give any new collective agreement or incorporate the ERT aeronautics, which at this time, say, if the signal falls, they have to go up to the antenna for ERT to broadcast to heavy and unhealthy. You don't incorporate them. Really, does ERT have an organogram? How exactly do you give increases? What kind of organogram? Does it have an up-to-date establishment plan to see how many and where they work, what addresses? "Get out" the press support measures introduced by SYRIZA, which you had "frozen". And why did you freeze them? Because you had subsidized the "MAKELEIO". You had subsidised Chios and there was a storm of reactions even from right-hand sites and newspapers. You were cried out, you took it back, and until then you haven't given the press support measures. And even though it is positive that the debts should be repaid to the EDPS, we say that - but you are, in fact, abolishing the press support measures and the sustainability problem remains. So what happens after 2021? In other words, they are being repaid by 2020. By a title I would say that you are extinguishing - pointing out - the institutional framework of the SYRIZA Government for SMEs in order to buy their political support. And you managed to make everyone defend SYRIZA's Law.4339, although it has been fought as few laws in the history of the Greek state. Even the canalarchs were forced to defend SYRIZA's law, when Mr. Petsas tried to pass a photographic device on a pan-Hellenic theme channel. That is why he left poorly - Mr Petsas with his order and now we see that there is no such provision in it. But in the first part of the bill, in the European directive, you were not kept. You put your hand in it, first of all in Article 8, which has offended freedom of expression and freedom of art which are constitutionally guaranteed freedoms. We invited you with an announcement to withdraw the layout, as the blurred way that was printed opened for censorship and criminalisation of artistic creation on online platforms. The artists reacted, came out on the street because they don't have any confidence in you. They are the same people who have been struggling for a year to survive completely helpless by the state. Finally, you changed the article by backing but without covering the doubts that exist for attempting censorship in their art. We will see this and by the end of the sitting we will be placed in a detailed position whether or not we vote for the relevant article and for those who are then associated with it, in any case. Minister, earlier I heard you in the anti-constitutional application accuse SYRIZA of moving his finger. After bringing in an amendment, you accept that there was a matter. Either there was a matter and you're bringing in an amendment - and you're welcome to bring it - or there was no subject and you're wrongly bringing in an amendment. It can't be. With regard to the annual financial contribution of Netflix, we asked you to increase 1.5% of their turnover in Greece. It's a little too little. Take it to 4%, 5% possibly. Give these resources to the Greek Film Center and not to the Greek Film Center. Not because we do not want to support the EMEA. It's our tool and we want it to go well. And it's going well. You keep it going, too. the EMEA is supported by the public investment programme. Support the Cinema Center, listen to the artists, listen to the directors. Listen to the professionals in the field, the show federation, listen. In conclusion, I should like to refer to SYRIZA's proposals on the media. We believe that information is what should be provided to the citizens without censorship, without interests. We gave samples of writing when we tried to do what no one dared, that is, to break the triangle of interlocutory: banks, media and political parties. We believe that SMEs can and should contribute to democratic control. We are not opposed to the reinforcement of SMEs by the state, especially in periods of pandemic. However, this must be done transparently, by rules, in universality and on condition that quality jobs are safeguarded. We are calling for the authorisation of regional stations and radios to be advanced and for it not to be postponed because of political cowardice, Mr Levanie. We need a comprehensive support and transparency plan in the media sector to shield the place from manipulation phenomena. The government, however, considers that with favors it can buy political support. However, the subtle communal strata that has suffered even in suffocating control conditions proves that the truth is not hidden. As far as the distance from median matrix and reality is concerned, society's demand for progressive governance and democratic areas will fad so much. In the last year, the crisis has been exploited as an opportunity by the Government of New Democracy. In the fear of pandemic, he brought a series of anti-population bills that resurrect class monopolies, idealism, authoritarianism. But we warn you, ladies and gentlemen of the government and of the New Democracy. History teaches us that whoever invested in fear in the end collected the wrath. And that rage is exactly what you're gonna collect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Katsey. Good evening from me and a good week. To express my warmest condolences to the family of tax collector in Kozani and Stavros Skopelitis, the former MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece. He wants the State Secretary to make an intervention. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u188	I did not mean to intervene, just in the context of our dialogue with Mr Katsis, I think we should say two - three elements. Firstly, Mr Katsis said that ERT Hybrid began on their day. We did. "It is now Ertflix and slowly the change that you have made." We had a historic high-ranking EPP Hybrid on April 14, 2019 with twelve thousand visits. Do you know how many people entered Ertflix yesterday? Three hundred five thousand seven hundred thirty-five single citizens. Around twenty-five times more. There's nothing wrong with the numbers. You spoke of censorship. We'll say it one more time, then. I am not going to go back to the question of ERT. One of the perverts who got stuck with the infamous piece of paper, in my own personal sense, without knowing who it is, is a blemish. It's either a blemish, simple or a probottom blemish. Either an idiot, because he thinks he's offering service to the government, or a provocative veil, because he thought he'd offer services to the opposition. In any case, this stupidity has been defeated. It was defeated for a very simple reason. I'll say it again. Did he play or not in the Sabbath night, for example, the statement by Mr. Iliopoulou? Did the infamous photo play at noon or did it not play? Did the photo play at 3:00 p.m. on Sunday or didn't it play? Did the photo play at 9:00 a.m. or didn't it play?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u189	He was saying footage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u190	How much to play? And the video played.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u191	You're welcome. He didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u192	So I'm asking. The photo from Mr. Tsipras' heel when did he play the ERT? What did Mr. Triantafylides call me? He said something nice. I am a 'blue delivist of interest'. Fantastic. Nice. This "blue" I liked. So I'm asking. Mr. Tsipras' photo played at ERT three days later after the government spokesman said or did he not play? But it seems that then social media didn't raise the issue. I will not say 'fascist' again. We did. Has it been heard in the air "will the Minister speak as long as he wants" or has it not been heard? On the air, you cut. You also mentioned the journalist who is now on show. Did that thing sound in the air or didn't sound? Was there against a journalist with the top minister of the SYRIZA government, or was there, who said "we were doing wrong in the management of the ERT"? Were there around ten SYRIZA officials left by ERT on your day, or were they not? Was there a reporter's complaint about a trade unionist who required to change the subject he played or didn't exist? I guess there was. I'll say two words because you have one evil. In the context of opposition, you are a little lost in contact with reality. Outside right now, Attica has the largest snowfall that has happened in the last seventeen to eighteen years. Maybe more. You're asking why we closed the highway. You yourself would come and say "Why you left the new highway open and five hundred cars locked in" for example. I would remind you that at a bad weather that was maybe one tenth of today's, on December 22, 2017, there were fourteen kilometers of tail. Do you know what you've done? You had them frozen in there. And you found the amazing excuse that right now the government only did it to shut down the highway so that it wouldn't have the concessionaire clear the way. You would say yourself today 'you have put lives at risk'. We act superstitiously, it bothers you. We don't act superstitiously, it's still bothering you. It's a nice thing, the opposition after all. You're talking about the power. I did a rough search. Whenever there's snow, trees fall on the lines. At the moment, around a thousand people in the TEN and in cooperation with all the municipalities are trying to restore the problems. Should it have happened? Oh, no. Could we prevent this? Yeah. We could take out the trees or make all the wires underground overnight. There is no other solution. Do you have any other solution to suggest? Should we socialize the trees not have snow? It can't be done. I'm closing up so I don't have time. You spoke of the "black" at the ERT. Some pathogens have led to this. Whether it was right or wrong, it should or shouldn't have been, it's another conversation. Let's get out of here. I think he's now judged. Do you know what's wrong with you? You continued the same and worst pathogens in times when we should at least have been taught five to ten things from all this crisis. And you continued the same pathogens. So that must concern us all. I should like to close up on the subject of the amendment, since you mentioned it. I would remind you that this government, under Articles 20, 47, 35, has changed the way in which all administrations of supervised bodies, including ERT, are appointed, including the Athenian News Agency, which is calling the post in the next few days. For the first time, the government is blocking the right of direct nominations and will be done through an open procedure. And you can be sure that the procedure will be completely open with fully transparent criteria and a committee which has the guarantee of the AACC itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Katsi, you have the right. It's not like you don't have it. But we said to make it easier for people to go home quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u195	To answer the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u196	But he'll have to answer. Not that you don't have the right. You have it, you know, but you'll have to answer the minister later. Thank you very much. Mr Christos Boukos, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor. You've been in the morning. It's getting really bad out there. How will people be able to go home? You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, on a national road, the country is experiencing an unprecedented bad weather. The government has established itself in prevention. I had the opportunity to go through this afternoon at exactly seven minutes from the point of the national road which is the reason for this decision on the twelfth stopover. I have actually experienced something that was not acceptable just before this measure was taken which the government and the relevant ministries were right to decide. You understand, when you see these images in the center of Athens, how difficult it is to deal particularly with at the point of the national road, according to the weather phenomena and areas that are these hours particularly intense, from Schemari onwards, to the tolls of Aphednes. Really, bad weather was terrible. In my view, the relevant ministries have decided very well. From that point on, you're talking about power cuts, but you didn't tell us, gentlemen of the previous government, of the Officerial Representation today, how many investments you have made in cable sub-demanding and in what state you have handed over PPC. A real shell on the brink of bankruptcy that the government over the last eighteen months has greatly exalted. In any case these intense weather phenomena are being handled. Of course, there are problems. In fact, a lot of problems. But thousands of people who, as crew members at this time, are working under these conditions to restore the damage should not be treated in this decommissioning way. We must now come to the bill, which is certainly not a media bill. It regulates a number of media issues, because if we opened a general debate on the media, it would not have been a start or a end, ladies and gentlemen. From my experience of more than two decades as a worker serving the media, but also from my six-year experience as a Member of Parliament, I have fully realised that there are several objective media, the media less objective, the media, in the opinion of each of us, not objectively. I have not met, I have not been aware of either Greece or the world, and I guess no one ever had an absolutely objective media in mind. It's reasonable and normal. Possibly in systems operating with the police and all the media were saying the same - whether they were printed or electronic - that there was an illusion of an objectivity among these peoples. But that was completely virtual and not real. So each media user from his own perspective evaluates the course and presence of the media. And of course these are the final judges. It doesn't matter what SYRIZA, the JRC, the New Democracy for a mediator. Users are the ones who evaluate the media. Who is that? Readers, listeners, viewers. This does not change and is acceptable to the modern world. That's acceptable. What any authority that changes and its position according to its own power, i.e. whether it is a government or a opposition or a permanent opposition, is of no importance. The reader, the viewer and the listener are the media judge. These are given that SYRIZA cannot come here today and speak of a subjective ERT or if you want a media that is smuggling the government, while, ladies and gentlemen, the Kalogrica report is in Parliament. You can be informed, you can unleash it, see what your ex-select, your chosen publisher, stands on your side. You tried to make him a canalarch with a grazing view. Why don't you go to the litigation, Mr. Katsy, see exactly what Mr. Kaloggrits accounts for you? He's here in the House. The file's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u198	Get Mr. Theodorikos to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u199	These are prophecies in sins. Mr. Kalogris doesn't blame anyone from New Democracy. He blames you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u200	Don't have a dialogue. You're wasting time, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u201	I'm not having a dialogue. I have a seat, Mr President. He's blaming you, too. But I see it's none of your business. As you were not concerned about complaints when the channels were licensed to run fronts that would raise the price. All those weird things we've been hearing are well burned. The dossiers, the Himalayan cats. It was all children's fairy tales. Now suddenly the media became subjective. This government is trying to manipulate them. With what mythical sums, really, ladies and gentlemen? With 20, 23, 25 and 30 million euros? Do you know what the cost of the pandemic is? It's over 30 billion euros. In other words, less than one thousand people, while you yourself say that pandemic is also affecting the media, centrally and regionally. On the one hand, you say that it is not viable, on the other hand, you have just asked, Mr Colleague, why they are being subsidized by the campaign. Because it's an indirect way. Because you know that the media, especially regional ones, do not have access to the banking system. Don't you understand that? Do you not understand that the government's repayment of debts to the EDPS is the aid programme for the regional media that you announced? Don't you understand that? If you see the amounts, they're almost equivalent. Who are you blaming? Do you have yourself? You live in your enormous contradictions. After all, I do not know how much they can talk about objectivity in the media. We're not thinking police here. We have pluralism. You see it every day. You accused ERT of not showing Ikaria. And ERT was the first television channel to project Ikaria before the private channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u202	Come on, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Katsi, he didn't interrupt you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u204	Let me tell you something about ERT. You didn't find anything, you say. You made ERT. Obviously you want the committed ERT to your prolongation, your opinions and principles. What did the Minister tell you earlier? Understand? Those who see Ertflix today viewed on your days as a whole ERT. That's what he told you. Very heavy. You're talking about polling that they're subjective. The measurements are not subjective. On the basis of the measurements, advertisements are shared and touched in economic interests. He doesn't even accept unfair and fake measurements. The market is tough and relentless there. So look at the measurements on your days. As I told you, my opinion is that objectivity is a modern timeless, however, myth. This does not mean, however, that there are no media that are committed to the ethical rules, where the professional morality of journalists and other workers is at high levels, where the Greek language is promoted, and culture is promoted in general, where they have a great social role. In fact, information is good and should be dealt with as such. This does not make it absolutely objective, in the sense that it was stated in today's debate. And ERT today has a bigger view, ladies and gentlemen, because it is taking some steps right. What a firm opposition to this? An unsubstantiated announcement, stuck in a bulletin, can there be a first argument for yesterday's government and today's Civic Opposition of the country? An unsubstantiated text, which can be printed everywhere and posted by anyone, either in social media or in the classic announcement board of a broadcaster? You may have such arguments as to wonder why your polls are going wrong? That is, if we are going to have a good reason and a serious argument to discuss how public service broadcasting will be even better, yes. To discuss the modern role of the media, yes. What do you disagree with the first part of the bill on audiovisual media platforms? What do you disagree with the arrangements a European regulation brings in anyway, a directive? What do you disagree with? Do you disagree that advertising should be restricted, that minors should be protected against unhealthy food and tobacco products? What do you disagree that the Minister is deducting 5% of the film tax from regional channels and transferring it to their platforms and revenues from the Greek public? Who gets from the grown-ups and gives young people in this particular case, the government or the Opposition? You are still saying that regional instruments have a serious problem, on the other hand, any regulations that the government is doing, because they cannot directly finance and bring about two - today three such regulations on taxes, tax exemptions, for a certain period of time, you do not support it. And who told you that a business's technological development is not even subsidised to 100% from a long time ago, not in today's years. The media groups' digitalisation programmes - and other businesses, but above all the media - have not always been subsidized 100% with European funds? Have you not seen programmes involving national and European participation, where the technological upgrading of enterprises, why is it necessary for the country to follow technological developments, to be subsidised at very high rates? However, when this is combined as an aid for dealing with the effects of the pandemic which has also struck the media industry. You tell us, that is, what others once told us that there could be a proletariat without factories. You're telling us there might be media workers without the media. That's what you're telling us. So, what are you telling us? To be state-run. You can't do that. It can't be done. It hasn't happened anywhere in the world. Now did the pain catch you for the workers? Four and a half years you've been government. Do you know where the employees' wages collapsed in the media? They collapsed to unprecedented low levels. Do you know where the unemployment of workers has reached the media? It reached unprecedented high levels. Now he caught you objectively nominate the administration of ERT through the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. What a good idea to be true! What a promotional idea! Why didn't you suggest it for four and a half years when you were government? Didn't you even catch that? And the Minister told you that both the Athenian Agency and the ERT administration and, in general, the administrations of bodies governed by public law and private law with the supervision of the State were conducted by open competitions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Bouquet, please complete
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u206	I'm already using my dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u207	We said we should help the employees. You both make use of dentistry, Mr. Scandalidis will do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u208	Okay, if you think, Mr. President, that the Parliamentary Representative of Officers should be able to make use of the dentistry and the parliamentary representative of the government party no...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u209	No, I don't think so. You deserve it. I ask for your help because of the situation outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u210	If you ask me directly, I will respect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u211	I'm asking you directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u212	Stop my speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u213	Don't put it that way. I'm asking for help.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u214	I will be helping to conclude in two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u215	Yeah, you're okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u216	We could say too much, because it is indeed an interesting matter. Indeed, we must approach it with greater temper and more seriousness. The media, ladies and gentlemen, have this power. It's newspapers, that's it. The news today is, tomorrow there are others. But it seems that your arguments are not convinced, and that is why they are not adopted by the majority of the media and not by anything else. Because I do not want to say how the credibility of the media in Greece is assessed, and if we are sixty-five or seventy-five, because there are investigations of serious organizations, of REUTERS, if my memory is not cheating on me, which says that we are second in conspiracy, immediately after Nigeria. Not pan-European, dear colleague. Worldwide. Research is worthwhile, as are polls, as are measurements of media resonance. Minister, I would conclude by telling you that the regional media in particular need even greater support and I would ask you to draw up policies because their role is important and it is not just information. For local societies it is also developmental when these instruments are healthy and sustainable. And in any case, the opposition that is being made is neither convincing, because you cannot say on the one hand, they do not survive the media and therefore the workers on them, strengthen them, but do not strengthen them by bringing today a bill that actually gives a breath, as they call it the media themselves, the central and regional ones. Of course, other initiatives will be needed. I am sure that Mr Lebanese, the Minister responsible will take care of them because we need the media that have to compete with the Internet. For the platforms we say today and their strength, and how some settings will be in place on all of this, but the internet in general has limited the resonance of the conventionals. We call it new means and conventional means. We don't see each other systemically or not. When we like them, they're non-systemic, when we don't like them, they're systemic. There are other divisions and other media categories. I would therefore say that once again the Census was restricted to criticism by using any persuasive arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u217	Thank you too, Mr. Buquoir. And we go to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, I will begin with the government managing bad weather these days. In our opinion, Minister, the management of bad weather and extreme phenomena - it has become fashionable, all phenomena are extreme, yet another snowfall in winter - is entirely consistent with the management that you have done in all other areas, particularly in the pandemic sector. Neither protection measures nor prevention measures nor the necessary infrastructure. The plan for managing bad weather and managing the pandemic is one: "We live at home. Have a seat at home.’ This is the government plan on one occasion and on the other. From this point of view, then, we tell you that it was your plan perfectly consistent with the plan you have taken in all other areas. Have a seat at home. We're staying home. And what was the result? With twenty points of snow closing national roads, blocking main roads in Athens, immobilising public transport, cutting power, resting unprotected workers, particularly those in the field of courier and deliberation, and revealing once again the tragic deficiencies in the area of civil protection, the means and the infrastructure that should exist to satisfy popular needs. And there's something else that's revealed. It reveals the tragic outcome of this logic that governs everything, cost-benefit. What I give, what I get. So is the pandemic, and so is the crisis, and so is the management of bad weather. Even the closure of the national road was not done to protect drivers. It was done to protect the companies that exploit these streets, which the Greek people have paid them, and not just once. He paid them to build, pays them today with the great tolls, and the obligation of the concessionaires to clean and keep these streets open, we saw where he led. And to prevent you, the next gift the government will give will be to those who exploit the national roads. Why? Because on the basis of contracts, it is foreseen that if national roads are closed because of force majeure, as they are now, they are entitled to compensation. It is the next gift the New Democracy Government will give. Today's bill, therefore, is absolutely consistent with the rest of the government's policy. What's the government doing? It gives new gifts, new provocative privileges to canalarchs, at the same time as it exacerbates the relations of workers in the media. What's he doing with the pandemic and the financial crisis? Exactly the same. False for workers, crumbs for the self-employed, especially in certain sectors on the brink of destruction, a new blow to labour rights. Because, as a New Democracy MEP said recently, 'the pandemic is an opportunity'. That's what he said on a channel. And at the same time you give new gifts, new packages to the big chapter. That is why we say that today's bill is integrated and is fully consistent with government policy, which is a politically unjust, anti-grassy, classic and provocative. Why are you also dating a few days ago and government officials and MPs today in the New Democracy and you say this. 'As we have supported all others, we must support information enterprises'. And they do the slut between the regional media with the means of Hellenism, which is not the same thing. It is not the same thing as a regional instrument in a prefecture, not that there are no big businessmen, a regional newspaper, or a regional and local press with the Canadians of all-Greek media. What are they, and they need support? Are they undignified? Are they hungry? They're shipowners, they're industrialists, they're big businessmen, they're bankers. So why, in the midst of a pandemic, amidst a crisis, in the midst of general insecurity, should you go and offer all these 3,45 million euros? You're making them pay 50 grand. You are giving them EUR 3.5 million, when they could be used to support the public health system, for schools, for means of transport, to support workers, to meet other urgent needs and problems. Oh, no! You choose to give it to the big-timers and the big-time businessmen from one hand. Because with the other hand what you offer them is even cheaper work with this bill. Parts of what you gave them the previous period with the specific lists in the framework of the pandemic advertising campaign. We, as a JRC, have again tabled two other amendments for the third time, so that the information campaigns - because they must not be made public in terms of public health, pandemics, vaccinations - should be absolutely free of charge for all means, both for television and radio and for the printed press, and should not enter into a reasonable advertising campaign and subsidies. And where there needs to be a subsidy for other reasons, this must be done on a fully transparent basis. This is the third time that we have tabled this amendment and it has been rejected almost by all the other parties. So what are we living right now? We're living, we've said it before, a midterm authoritarianism. There is the authoritarianism of MATs, the authoritarianism of suppression, the bans, ideological manipulation, the authoritarianism of the media. That is what we are living today both from the private media and from the state-owned ERT. SYRIZA, who well does and complains about the situation in the television field, has also put his own seal on that TV scene. Because when the infamous Pappa law was passed and we told you that there could be no objective information when it was exclusively in the hands of the great businessmen, then do you know what Mr. Pappas tells us? I remember saying, 'The channels are sports for big wallets'. So please mix them up now with the big wallets, as we bath them, as the Greek people bathe them above all! Because when the information is in the hands of the big businessmen, they will organise it on the basis of their own economic and business interests and on the basis of the multiplicity they seek each time with the political system. Because information cannot be seconded as a good and a right, not as a commodity, by who owns the media. It can't be distracted. Like also, then, when we told you that there were no insurance fees for there to be even elementary pluralism in this context, what did you do? You voted together with the New Democracy on the composition of the National Broadcasting Council, which, today, almost everyone says it, only the government does not say it, does not say it, possibly - is a decorative element in all this immunity and the arbitraryness of the Canadian authorities. Let's go to ERT. It's another pillar of medieval authoritarianism. The subject has been exhausted, and we agree on the notes, the gatherings in Ikaria, etc. I shall refer to it from now on. In the last ten days, Minister, before the vote of the "Kerameos - Chrysochide" the students were on the way, with massive mobilizations. For ten days, thousands of students throughout Greece were slandered, slandered, and these young children, who were representatives of trade unions, organisations, etc., were not given either by the ERT or any private means to tell the reasons why they reacted to this bill. And what was the reason for that? He was given to a student who was found at random defending the bill and also at random was a trade union agent of the DPRK. That's it. Not that these didn't happen at SYRIZA. I agree with Mr. Katsy. He referred to a specific broadcast, known and unexplained, which we have spoken about many times. Indeed, Mr Katsis, on this show there were journalists from the New Democracy and others from Central Left, PASOK, etc. On this show, however, for the representative of the JRC to come out, Lazarus had to be resurrected. In order to get a representative of the JRC on this show, Lazarus should be raised! And I'm telling you this after knowing. It is a question of whether three times on this broadcast came out of a representative of the JRC, unless the only thing you care about is the connection between you and the competition between you, because, as far as I say specifically about the JRC, Lazarus had to be resurrected for this broadcast and others. Why? Because there is no government that has not used ERT over the past few years as a government-sponsored belligerent in order to impose government policy and, of course, to exclude any annoying voice that resists this policy. That is why we consider controversy hypocritical, as is hypocritical and confrontation to the way in which the ERT administration is appointed. Over the last few years, I remember twice... [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. I remember twice having a debate on how to appoint the ERT administration. Both of us as JRC have said that the administration of the ERT should not be appointed by the respective government. And in the new Republic this has also been done in SYRIZA. What happened? Nothing. Nothing! Each government chose to appoint the administration of its choice and to continue the same "hawa" as the previous governments. Today you are tabling an amendment to change the way in which ERT administration is appointed by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. But why didn't you bring this proposal for four and a half years when you were government? And where does this proposal lead? What are the 4/5 of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, based on today's parliamentary relationship? It's a new Republic, a SYRIZA and a Change Movement. With these three parties you fill out the four-fifths for the appointment of the administration of ERT, as was done with the appointment of the composition of the National Broadcasting Council and the results "we're washing" even today. We ask the following question: why should the administration of ERT, of state broadcasting, which is about information, culture, etc., be a product of agreements, in essence of the blocs between the parties and do not have the first role of the associations of journalists, ERT workers themselves or associations in the field of culture, since you say that state broadcasting is related to the development of culture? Why should it not be appointed in this way and should it be the prerogative of either the government or a contributory between bipartisanism and a 'text party', as you are essentially proposing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u219	Finish, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u220	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm leaving some other things I wanted to say and I'm ending up with this. ‘Tromony’ and Articles 8 and 32. It is fair to us that people who today were mobilized in snow, as a musician or an online "terror". It's not just about artists, that's right. But it is also about artists and on the basis of such provisions, they have been chased, dragged into court or excluded from the Internet - the Internet is now a basic tool of expression, especially young artists - in other countries and many artists have been punished. In Spain, there is even a whole mobilization, with artists, to support such people. So it is not a maniac pursuit of those who react to this bill. They are provisions, they are a Euro-Union directive, supported by SYRIZA as government and are now incorporated into Greek law. And the legislative improvement you are making, in our view, is not satisfactory and must be withdrawn. Why should I tell you? It says violence and hatred against social groups etc. Yes, we consider it and say it that an artistic and radical one should cultivate anger and hatred, if you wish, against fascism, racism, exploitation, refugee and wars. Against all those who create such phenomena, yes, they should create, provoke and stimulate the rage towards all these phenomena of injustice that exist in the present system. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u223	Of course, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u224	A number of parliamentary amendments have been tabled. I think that an amendment from the ERT Officer's amendment has been tabled, which has identical content, for arrangements for the broadcasting of stations where there are problems in geomorphological terms. She can't be looked at now. It takes time and it will come as part of the authorization of regional radio stations. Just one comment on what Mr Giokas said. I heard him very respectfully. What you said about hate, I'm worried about. I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u225	Do you understand how I said it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u226	I understand how you say it, but attention - and you will understand what I mean - because some people were sitting here a while ago and they hated exactly what I mean. And by the way, I did read about the persecutions in Spain, too. 'Kr. Neutral' what's he doing? Why isn't it changing and not revising? Isn't Mr. Iglesias running enough if I'm not mistaken?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u227	Are you going to say something about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u228	We said it's covered by legislation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u229	For the congressmen...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u230	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u232	I think that today's debate is one of the most difficult in this House, and unfortunately it is at a time too bad for the country and as a punishment for the political system itself. Minister, I am making a general introduction to the case of bad weather and government policy. The fact that confrontation only takes place with the past does not help us understand the change of events, but neither the development and continuity of the state. There's a development here. We've lived through other natural disasters. In fact, one, in 2004, which happened to be an Interior Minister, was the biggest snowfall ever made in Athens. Some practices were inaugurated. Some techniques have been in the management of such crises. The continuation appeared more good and now suddenly the government, which has said it is a modern government, that it has prepared them, that it looks at civil protection issues, that all summer it was preparing for winter or as in spring, it was preparing for the epidemic, but the appearance today was tragic. I went down to my office half a dozen to seven in the morning, and the center of Athens was impassable, while it was snowing from yesterday afternoon. You couldn't pass Queen Wisdom. This shows a bad reaction from the government. As much as you try to say that something serious has been done to deal with the phenomenon, it has not been done, as on many issues relating to pandemic. In other words, there is an attempt here to show that the government is a modern government that is dealing with everything in good time, which is prepared, planned, etc. The critical situations are many, I must confess, they are difficult, because it is a difficult time that pandemic has fallen in the world and has literally left him insubstantial. It is clear that things are very difficult, but unfortunately it is not the government prepared to deal with them. It deals with them manually, without a plan, fragmented and that is how it deals with the issues of good legislature. There are constantly bills coming, by the way at this time, and all these bills characterise them as a handshake and, if you like, a "parparpacolazid" policy and will be inapplicable afterwards. I say this as a general political position, because I believe that today we are in such a difficult situation, which would be a good thing for dialogue to have another object, which is related to the real development of our institutions and our state, so that it can face similar situations and, of course, it is also a development in the sensitive issue of democracy, which is currently in a crisis and in a dispute, not only at national level, but at general level, both in Europe and everywhere. So, here, we have to have a sense of where we are, what we want and what we do. We are talking about a political manipulation of the means and I must say that he has also known me that SYRIZA is trying today to make this argument with you and bringing this amendment as well. It is very recent that we have lived through the ERT 5 card. On the other hand, you continue the shadow theater. You're a refined government, but ERT lives in the shadow of submission. I don't care if they go cardboard or not, I care about what's produced. And what is produced is evidently in the shadow of submission. I shall not refer to percentages, Mr Kegeroglu and other rapporteurs have said so here. 90% is an unequal distribution between the government and SYRIZA. Thirty percent of the House actually has 10% of the information. It's an obvious injustice. This injustice does not mean that submission is always made with the card, with the order or the phone. Submission is made through the composition of interests, and ERT should be an example of objectivity, which overturns the composition of interests, because an ERT should give the quality and value of the state instrument, which it guides, such as should guide the public university or, for example, should guide the ERC. We are neither against the private economy nor against the private media. But the product is dominated, since we live in a competition regime. The first concern of a government that wants to be called progressive should be the objectivity of ERT's television and the upgrading of its cultural and practically functional level so that society can regain values of collective action, collective, if you want, solidarity, collective response. This policy does not apply and you go back to the past. And I can tell thousands of things about the past. But I don't care about the past. I lived when we tried to make YENED and we knew what difficulties there were. I lived through it in later times, when indeed all the powers were trying to guide - and ours - in a certain way, but some steps were taking slowly. The bad news is that these steps have not been continued. We had to, since we have a common conscience now, deal with it. I do not understand who guides the news, but no TV can tell me, especially ERT, that it does not produce news, for example, the Change Movement. He's making suggestions. Mrs. Gennamas came here to a question to the Prime Minister. He proposed ten meters. The Prime Minister accepted five. The other five didn't accept it. He gave it to him. The Prime Minister answered. He had brought measures with him to answer. The next day some of the media said that the question was asked, as if Mrs. Gennimata had not been on the scene. Is it possible for this thing to be considered objective information? I'm talking to you with specific examples. It was a specific question to the Prime Minister. It wasn't just in the title, it wasn't in the news. The measures taken by the Prime Minister have been announced. That he took it because the genome suggested it or took it because this conversation took place and he had to say something, that was not even a news story. That's what I'm telling you, shadow theater. It's the ERT in the shadow of submission. This submission must stop now. Can he stop? Do you have the guts to stop her? You'd offer a lot of service to the place. However, what we are living for is: In the promotion of news and events, commentary feels that he is giving tests. Someone's commenting on the fact on TV. I also know people who are ours, people of our place, who have friends, etc. Comment gives tests. It is the omission, selective and partial display of the event on the news. And the worst is distortion in some cases that he can't stand. I mean, there's a different fact and there's a different one. This thing can no longer live, in modern times, a society that wants to live with democracy and with co-responsibility. She can't accept it. And I come to the specifics, as far as labour security is concerned. The free expression and autonomy of the journalist depend mainly on his professional situation, no matter how we do it. So he must feel safe. Your particular provision makes him feel insecurity or at least feels a large part of the journalists. I come to the viability of the private media, the licensee. I accept that there are huge problems today from the pandemic and from the general recession and the economy and the instruments must perhaps be facilitated, but not given them credit. Give me what Mr. Kegeroglu has proposed. Give them a year of extension, pay it out of time for eleven years. Give them doses in more time, but not give them three and a half million suddenly, in the pandemic! This has nothing to do with publicity, it's speculation! We are going on public television and the payroll article. And that's challenging. It is also important to call on the position, to do so with completely objective criteria, which would be a great decision on state broadcasting, and to say that, from the moment it works, there should also be a corresponding salary in the pandemic to those appointed to give them a salary above, unlike what the world lives today. Watch the differences I make. It's very different to my position than the one you've heard so far. It's a different juncture. And we're going to the National Broadcasting Council. Its role is binding, regulatory and auditing. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I shall also use my dentistry. I won't talk tomorrow. Its role is binding and auditing, it is not decisive. A brave decision would be to change it to him. But there is no objection of constitutionality, when there is a particular path, and there are no proper responsibilities. On the substance of the matter, the National Broadcasting Council today had to come substantially to a change in its status. For example, in Article 11, where the Minister says that the Minister obviously decides on the Presidential Decree, instead of saying by expressing an opinion, he will either say in terms of wording, if you want to give him powers and be objective either by expressing an opinion or at least by tabling a proposal from the National Broadcasting Council, in order for the Minister to make the decision with the Presidential Decree. It is not even consultative when it is only in an opinion. It's ash in the eyes. In Article 11, you could add what I said to you. I am going to one last, which I consider to be very useful, Minister. No one's touched it. You said something about appointments from now on to public bodies. I had another picture from you. I wish you wouldn't deny me. The picture is that because these things happened three times these days. Mr Vorides came to the position where you are and brought an amendment to public bodies and businesses. When a president, a commander, was leaving to replace, the law provided that the proceedings had to be completed within three months. The deadline has changed, with the effect that any commander is appointed by the government to remain president for at least as long as the government wants. Tomorrow's bill relates to the ADP wage bill. The government comes in and tells the governor "you decide to the agency the wages, the positions of responsibility, the initial development of employees, their payroll across the range" and, in fact, with great injustice, those of the personal difference. And you make a "emperor" who decides on the administration as a single body in an Independent Public Revenue Authority, which is the most critical function of the Ministry of Finance. And you are coming today with Article 49 and you say that for the independent authorities you are also abolishing the six months in which it should have been appointed, the procedures for selecting the administration of the independent authorities are over. You abolish it, so any transition to the independent authorities can last as long as the government's term of office. This shows me another type of command. It shows me your ultimate state that breaks down every rule, shows me a model of governance that is modern in words but old-fashioned and client-centered in conception and policy-making. It shows me a type of governance that no one else fits in modern times. And I think this is a crucial issue. Think about it, because that's what has to be our confrontation from now on. We will not say about the right and the left, and if there are any contradictions, about progress and maintenance, and whether there are any or whether all these flammations that I read from various moderns have been abolished. Here there is a policy procedure in which things have to gain their true dimension. And the answers we need to give, the progressive ones, should be such a clear and unequivocal that we do not have to keep talking about yesterday, but about how we can make a better life tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalidis. And we will close for today with Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution, Mr Antonis Mylonakis. Looks like he's gonna be the only consensual. And now I must apologise to Mr. Bukouros for interrupting him, and I did not let him take the dentistry. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I listened with caution to the parties and their views on the 'Visual Audiovisuals and Other Provisions' bill which you bring in the midst of the pandemic of bread and on a day when there are over twelve, thirteen, fourteen and fourteen people here in Parliament, we are not for various reasons. There are problems with movements in certain areas. I heard and was amazed at two things, which we need to talk about to stop this festivities anymore. According to Mr. Bukoro, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, the Greek people are second in the world after Nigeria in conspiracy stories. The Greek people are conspirators of the worst in the world. Mr. Minister, you are a new man. You know very well how much I appreciate you. And you're in a position next to the Prime Minister in this terrible and incredible - which you've done - finally a state there and you want to run it all and fix it all, and finally from what you're doing you're doing, you're doing nothing more than there's a huge problem. On the other hand, I heard Mr Gioka from the Communist Party. What did he say? He said that right - he says - anger and hatred grows. I didn't believe that thing. Hate over whom and from whom and for what? I think they were overreacting, that they both didn't mean that thing. For SYRIZA, who is now doing what needs to be done on the media, ERT has to be a public good. Do we forget about Mr. Kaloger and his pastures? Do we forget about Mr. Poppa who wanted to build a well-saving channel of his own and something else that was supposed to go in there and said that Mitsotakis would never be Prime Minister? We don't forget these things. So I have been watching for years now - they have shielded my hair - and I hear the same things from every government. Each government is making the media into its own measures. I'm not talking about ERT. I'll talk to you about ERT. From the outset we have made a request for unconstitutionalism which everyone has voted against. But SYRIZA, Minister, and the Change Movement said that we are voting against the Greek Solution for Article 8 but we want the phrase "equal treatment of a member of the national minority" from within with legislative improvement. Because we didn't have a national minority. Of course in honor - I say -, have you accepted, have you admitted that you did not see it, escaped? Did you take it from the directive of the European Union? It makes sense to exist for every state. Belgium has, Germany, France has Portugal. That makes sense. Other states have ethnic minorities. Our homeland has no ethnic minority. And the only minority we recognize is the Greek Muslim minority. And you know, because we recently went back to Xanthi, Komotini, Mr Scandalidis, the Greek Muslims themselves get misunderstood when we call them a minority! You know what they told me? "Tell Mylonakis to Parliament not to call us a minority again. We are not a minority. We are Greek citizens, the religion of Muslims." And we insist minorities and minorities and tales of Halima. And now we come to go to such a law of a "national minority" to open the academy of Hail, on the same day that Erdogan makes Navtex and says that I will do exercises in the Aegean? Where? West of Lemnos, northwest of Chios in our own marine space. Some time ago, I'm gonna get out. He says - and the Chesme. You remember what had happened in 1984, I remind you. But then it seems the Greeks responded like Greeks. I do not know now how we will respond unless we respond as we did some time ago when the oceanography and research vessels of the Turks came out in the eastern Mediterranean, they approached six miles to Rhodes and tied the exclusive economic zone, continental shelf and territorial waters of Kastelorizo and we say 'it's all right, six miles'. We have lost everything and every day we make the same mistakes. Mr Minister, I sincerely tell you that with all the good will I have, not for you personally, young people must enter the House and the government in case they change our minds. Because we destroyed Greece. Since 1974 our country has been destroyed, it has been completely destroyed. As much as we don't want to admit. As far as the management of bad weather is concerned, is there anyone here saying that it was done properly? Apart from certain regions, such as Kozani, Kastoria, there in western Macedonia. They dropped a hundred and fifty tons of salt and no road was closed in Kosani. And here on Mr Chrysochoid's orders, is the highway closed? And who's Mr. Chrysochoidis? He's the Minister of Citizen Protection. What's he doing to close the highway? Is the closure of the national road a matter for Mr Chrysochide or Mr Chardalia? It's a government matter. The government decides to close down from Kalyftakis to Kifisia to the highway. For what? Will the other person pass all Malakasa where there is no problem and now comes to close the highway in Athens? And when is she going to open up? He says twenty-four hours. We leave her seven hours. And let's open it now, if it keeps getting ice down. Why? Have the snowflakes gone? Don't we have salt? What don't we have here in Athens? Is the world making fun of us? Is the highway ever shut down? When, when, the highway doesn't close. Here in Athens, should the highway be closed from Kalyftakis to this point? When have you guys seen her before? Unless he's taking down some lace, but that's all. It's not possible to say such things. You have failed in all areas. As far as immigration is concerned, illegal immigrants. Tell the refugees, immigrants, illegal people, as you want to tell them. The point is you can't go out to the county anywhere. We saw what happened when Mr. Metarakis went to Orestiad. We saw what happened at the CYTD where hundreds of old people live and you go and put two thousand illegal immigrants. Where? On the back of the Greek Army at the border. And there's a mistake. You've filled our country with such a CYT and I don't know how much longer you're going to make. As far as the pandemic is concerned, Mr. Hetas told you before. No mask, yes mask, no medical mask, yes panic mask. Seal the masks like this, wash them every afternoon because - he says - you can make savings. Now you're saying no panic mask. Put on medicine, and one medicine isn't enough. Why do you have stock? Does any of you have any factory that has stock and wants to give it to the Greek people? Tell us, another time I wear three masks like this, for five times a day, to change it to consumption, to consume your stock. You can't tell us that thing. This problem that has been created is unbelievable in our country and we need to put a mind on it. The Greek solution to everything that has been done - and you know it very well - is in reasonable, serious and above all research. He's researching and talking. And you see that today, with this proposal that he has made to you, you have basically admitted it and accepted it - and you have done well - and you have replaced it. You have completely deleted the word 'national minority'. We have said, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the logic above all and what we have said to the Greek people in an election we will do so. How sensible, ladies and gentlemen, is it when we start a period when pensions will be at EUR 384? Take note of the previous Minister for Labour, Mr. Brutsis, who told us that he was finally solving the problem. It's all solved. And finally we arrived at the hundred and fifty thousand SYRIZA who hadn't been retired and waited for one, two, three, four years - it doesn't matter how they went from where they were eating it, it doesn't matter - and we're now here to say that you're gonna get 384 euros and then you're gonna get 80% and then you're gonna get 100%. Ask me May to eat a clover. He'll be dead and if he does, he'll be waiting for his kids to get his pension. This is the situation and you're mocking people. Take - says -384 euros, I'll give you a few retrospectives and it's all cozy. Let's go say why they said it all about the PSE. Look, we don't talk about the media, we've been through it before. We've done a show here, we've brought the president of the PSE for this reason. There is no Minister, no matter how much you wish to claim it, no pluralism, no freedom of speech, no presentation of the parties' channels and nothing. Personally, I've never been out on a channel except once I've been taken all the time. We are a year and a half in the House, no Greek MP, like the KKE, Mera25, for demolition is a little more KINAL and SYRIZA, since you cannot do any differently because they must have someone against the neo-democratics. Because from morning to night New Democracy listens to all the pan-Hellenic channels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. And now you're coming to give them three million four hundred and fifty thousand. For what? You do not force them to have four hundred and twenty people, but now sixty with seventy less people. Tomorrow's gonna be a hundred more and a day later. The money the journalists, assistants and technicians get from the pan-Hellenic channels is minimal. It's 400, 500, 600 euros. That's their salary. If you think that because the five, six attendants get 1,000, 1,000, 2,000 euros, everyone gets so much, you're making a big mistake. And on the other hand, you're diving them with the ads of about 35 to 40 million. For what? To advertise - he says - "We live in a house, we stay safe." But these are messages relating to public health and we know that very well. And what was your excuse? That you give the money to get in any time we want. What was it? A little house over right "We stay at home". That was the commercial. We remember that. A little house over right that's what we saw. It wasn't a second-to-second advertisement to say it was so many seconds. Nothing. Of course they do what you tell them. Whatever Maximos says, they do, Minister, the channels. From morning until night they mourn the main Prime Minister as Moses, that he saved Greece from the pandemic, that he gives money to the world, that Greeks are fine, that there are no unemployed, there is nothing. Until the day before yesterday, the New Democracy claimed that the growth of 2021 would be 4.5%. Is it possible from the dip to go up? What is it? Is that a rocket? And now they admit that public debt is growing, the huge problem of recession will be in 2021, we want a new budget to close the budget of 2021, that is, what we were talking about. And it makes sense, it's not unreasonable. Television is a public good and the view of the Greek Solution was, is, is and will be - because we too have been through this work and have taken the whole world to say his opinion - that all the representatives of the parties are presenting the pan-Hellenic channels. For the peripheral regions, my Minister, you have done nothing. Most regionals are about to close. They live in telemarketing. They don't live from anything else. People asked for 50% of DIGEA, less, to be able not to pay this year until 2021. You don't. Do it now. Regionals must live, it is the soul of the region. That's where the real news comes from, if you want. The president of the EPP himself said he can't handle it. Mr. Hetas, our speaker told you, right? From the Minutes, he read them. The man can't handle it. Isn't it personal? I think it does. Doesn't he have machinery? I think they exist. He doesn't want to? I don't know. However, there is no good reason to be an independent authority. What independent principles are these? We have thirty-two independent authorities. hundreds of millions have been given to the independent authorities and where we do not put independent authorities, we put supervisory addresses. What's that? Don't we have civil servants? Don't we have divisions? Don't we have managers? Don't we have general secretaries in the Ministries? Haven't we got a lot of scientific advisers and the MPs and the ministers and the ministries? Why not do our job and save money and give it to the Greek people, give it to pensions, give it to health? We all admit there is no public health. We all say so. No - he says - there is. Where's public health? If you don't have money, you die. The whole world says it out. What is this while we have excellent doctors, excellent nurses? One government comes in '12, Mr. Georgiadis shuts down hospitals, closes ICUs, closes MATHs, doesn't steal his glory Tomsen, not anything else. And now all of a sudden, we're gonna fix the new NSA. After you destroyed the NSA, you're going to build the new NSA! That's great! And a few words about ERT, and I'm closing. I think that the administration of the ERT, Mr Minister, should indeed go through the same way as the administrations of all the independent authorities, ladies and gentlemen. The government, the Minister, must also propose that the Committee on Institutions and Transparency choose, with secret votes. This is the legal procedure and the democratic process, Minister. Because if you bring us here the President of an independent authority, Mylonakis, they want, they do not want SYRIZA, the KKE, the KINAAL, the Greek Solution and the MEA25, the Minister will pass Mylonakis, after you have the majority. So we're making fun of ourselves? So bring two, three candidates, sit down by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and by secret ballot to choose the best, best. This is a serious process. And the ERT must go through the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Her administration must be set from here by secret ballot and leave these, which every government that comes out, shuts down the ERT, we make the ERT, we come again and we make the ERT, our people come out, go, put our own. This job is done. Now let's not fool people. The Greek Solution - to conclude, Mr President - ladies and gentlemen, faithful to its election commitments, but also in observance of what it has said to the Greek people and its programme, is voting against this bill of incorporation into our national legislation of Directive 1808/2018 of the European Union and other provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Mylonakis. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-16-S1-commons.u236	(a) Continuing discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Secretary-General to the Prime Minister, responsible for communication and information matters: ‘Integration into the national legislation of the Directive (EU) 2010/13 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 and other provisions relating to the competence of the Secretariat-General for Communication and Information’ and (b) only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Mission and issues of the Independent Public Procurement Authority’, in accordance with the agenda distributed. Thank you all in and out of the Chamber. Everybody go with the best in your homes without any problems. Good night. Holy Mary with you.
