ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Restrictions to be included in the special electoral lists of foreign voters'. At its meeting on 20 May 2021, the Conference of Presidents decided to discuss the draft law in one and, if necessary, to make a second meeting, a single meeting on the principle, articles and amendments. In particular, the discussion of the draft law is proposed to take place with a combination of physical presence and teleconferencing service, WEBEX, with dozens of cycles, which will include speakers with the following ratio per Parliamentary Group: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Movement of Change, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the competent authority has drawn up a list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who will be put through a teleconferencing conference will speak as soon as the speakers' cycles are completed in a natural presence. According to the number of speakers appointed by the parliamentary groups, I propose that the House be given a second sitting on Wednesday at 10.00 a.m. on the continuation of the debate on the bill. Addendums to the list will not be accepted unless mutual changes are accepted. In accordance with Rule 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, a roll-call vote will be held on the principle of Article 1 on the nominee, as well as on the entire bill as a result of the qualified majority required by Article 51(4) of the Constitution. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Before I invite the rapporteur of the New Democracy to give the floor for two minutes to the Minister, who wants to clarify something. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have asked for the floor, Mr President, only to address the issue of acceptance or not two amendments. One amendment was tabled by the SYRIZA side and one by Mera25. I said, Mr President, to the Committee on the Interior, when we were discussing, that I am even prepared to withdraw the draft bill at the moment in order to find a compromise, in order to achieve the objective of facilitating the exercise of the electoral right of foreign residents, under two conditions: that there will be no restriction on the exercise of the right and, secondly, that their vote will be equal to all voters and will be counted against the election result. I addressed this invitation to SYRIZA to put it on the table, because then all the other issues - electoral regions, number, voting method - could have been discussed, agreed between the parties, but if these two strategic conditions were agreed, they would have been agreed. SYRIZA tabled a proposal, an amendment signed by Mr Katrugalos, Mrs Jackson and Mr Zachariadis. That is where they propose the establishment of four electoral districts, of state MPs, but they will be elected not by party ballots and will also not therefore be taken into account in the vote of the vote on the total election result. I guess I understand that's SYRIZA's position. So in my call, in fact, SYRIZA responded negatively. This negative answer, the rejection of one of the two conditions, namely counting the vote of those like all the other voters, obviously means that we will normally continue the debate in the bill and each one will take responsibility from now on. And the MAA25 amendment and it is part of these conditions. I do not accept it because it no longer makes sense to accept the amendment tabled by Mera25, since this basic agreement and convergence of SYRIZA does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Tourism, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Justice, Migration and Asylum, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs have tabled a draft law on 24-5-2021: 'Undoing Annex XVIII to the International Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialized Organizations, with regard to the World Tourism Organisation'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u6	Do you want anything procedural?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u7	There was a debate on an amendment. I want to say a word if I can. I'm a parliamentary representative, can I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u8	In any case, before Mr Kumouchakos speaks, take the floor for two minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u9	Obviously, Minister, I think that your refusal is entirely justified when the first and inalienable criterion relating to equality of vote is not met. And this is a move of purely spectacular, with no essential content. But you made a proposal last time, from what I've seen and then read in the Minutes - because I was missing at that time - that you could discuss a real election of representatives from the regional counterparts. I think that, regardless of the fate that the law will have, that is to say, whether it will gather the two hundred votes, which means that it will be possible - and I note that this is true, it is not as in the electoral law - that you could, once you have had this proposal, rather than just one change, which is related to the cutting of the nostrils, say, put the letter vote and the issues relating to the representation of the homosexuals and bring in a full law. There should be. If you do not, we will do so in the very near future.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, George Koumoutsaskos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I'm starting with you. Today it is considered that you will have the political courage to support the national major, sacrificing the party small. If you will support the unconditional and bureaucratic preconditions of the Greeks on the electoral lists abroad to vote from the place of their residence or if you will bear the burden of responsibility to prevent you from having a historical country debt decision to the Greeks that constitute the end of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the Hellenism of the Dispersion, the Greeks who live abroad are an integral part of the national body. The geographical distances were never an obstacle to or a pretext for Greeks of the oldest and recent migration to offer their mother homeland whenever they were needed, whether this was national topics or to support efforts to develop and relocate the national economy. This relationship between the country and the diaspora, the country - Greeks abroad cannot be a one-way road. It must be a two-way road. Proclaimed strategic choice, I would remind you here, and the purpose of all the post-government governments was the greatest possible reinforcement of the links between Hellenism abroad and the mother country. It is time to honor these Greeks. And the least we can do is to ensure that they are free from obstacles to exercise their electoral right from the place where they live. This was what the Constitution of 1975 meant to guarantee the right of non-national voters, as the text said, to participate in the highest democratic act, in the electoral process, that is to say, in the operation of the Hellenic Republic. In Article 51 of the 1975 Constitution, there was a general provision and a requirement for the regulation by law of matters relating to the possibility of applying to practice, i.e. the highest right of the off-border Greeks. The Constitutional Reviews of 1986 and 2001 followed, which wanted to improve or further regulate the welfare of the 1975 Constitution. Unfortunately, for half a century this constitutional provision has been inapplicable. Political purposes have not enabled the efforts made in at least two cases to be promoted, I note and underline both the governments of New Democracy with the Government of Costas Karamanlis and the government of Antonis Samaras. The third, this time effective effort was again made by a New Democracy government, by the current government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who had set the application of constitutional requirements among the government's key priorities and our government's programme. That is, finally, to make it possible for Greeks outside the country in which they live to vote, that is to say, to respond to a self-evidently just and deeply democratic demand from the Greeks of the Diaspora, the Greeks of recent and older immigration. Our proclaimed ambition from the outset was, of course, and remains the facilitation of participation in the electoral process to relate to all the entitled Greeks abroad, without restrictions, without additional criteria and bureaucratic burdens, which ultimately lead to distortions, which create a split between two or three speeds and under conditions which favour the most wealthy, that is to say those of the Greeks abroad who can easily pay the cost of a long journey to exert on the ground, here in Greece, their electoral right, unjust those who cannot be subjected to this exit. We did not want restrictions and unfair divisions from the outset for something that is so important. But the necessary parliamentary majority for this, unfortunately, did not exist. For our part, however, we ought to have a sense of responsibility to ensure the major, that is, because there were differences between opposition parties, not to catch our political system and eventually the Hellenic Republic in its trap all or nothing. That is why, with an open and constructive spirit and hard work by the Minister of Interior at the time, a compromise was reached with the other political forces which had objections, objections or even denials. It was a necessary compromise, but it did not, or did not, enthusiastically, cause problems for the Greeks abroad. In order to achieve the increased majority of the Constitution, therefore, we have compressed our ambition to the measures of political realism of the then correlation of parliamentary forces and votes. At the same time, however, we have put an intransigent red line, an inviolable and inviolable democratic limit and a condition: always guaranteeing the equality of the Greeks' vote outside the borders with that of the Greek citizens. So Law 4648/2019 was a first important step for us, as the Prime Minister said, and not the end of the route, it was a step awaiting its completion. So the reason for today's proposal to change this law of 2019 existed in the first place. The cause was there. It was clearly and publicly submitted by the Prime Minister and the Government. And suddenly, but also very welcome, the occasion has come. What was the occasion? The materially responsible member of the SYRIZA Major Antipolitics, Ms.Jakri, who is directly and horizontally and in a historical emblematic version of the Dispersion, said: "National Preacher", said: "We will not only fight for refusal of restrictions, but we will abolish them as soon as we return to the rule of the country. They shall be unjust, degraded and unspeakable.’ So you're gonna fight. Today, then, we invite you not to give this battle, you don't have to. Because today you have in front of you the law that abolishes these restrictions, these unacceptable, according to your authority, restrictions, which abolishes what Mrs Jacquez has just read about her own interview. SYRIZA remains SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen. Anyway, don't give the battle. Just give your agreement today and your vote to remove obstacles and discrimination. Your proposal, a proposal to escape, is not to measure the vote of Greeks abroad in the general election result, but only to elect four Member States, it is not just a small political puppet. It's manifestly unconstitutional and you know it. There can be no two categories of voters or two categories of votes. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate and later the vote will finally judge two major political issues: The first is whether the modern Greek Republic will do its duty, regulating and definitively enforcing the possibility of Greeks of the Dispersion, all Greeks, participating in and co-ordinating equally with Greeks the historical route of the nation, without any unnecessary conditions, without any bureaucratic obstacles and stumbling blocks. The second political issue is that if the political forces, the opposition parties and, in particular, the major opposition parties, will have the political courage not to sacrifice to the altar of today's micro-party benefit and interest the constant and national big, if they say'residents' in this big step, which has been unduly delayed for almost half a century, or if they are recorded as micro-partners and - let me say - puppets absent. The national term of office records the position and attitude of all of us and I sincerely hope to record three hundred historically 'yes' and no small 'no', so that the Greek Parliament confirms by a overwhelming majority that this will be the House of all Greeks. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the big picture. Everything else is an escape, it's a footnote in a big chapter. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have to decide. It's up to you. It is your responsibility if you will eventually choose to be a footnote of refusal or to participate in a historic decision. We are, however, determined. We are doing and will do our duty towards the Greeks abroad, decisively voting in favour of the possibility of participating as appropriate and deserved to form the historic route of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u12	We are also grateful to Mr Kumucako and to him for the consistency in time. And after the Step has been sanitized, SYRIZA's rapporteur - a Progressive Alliance, Georgios Karugalos. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are talking today about a draft law which has been announced by the windows and which brings the House exactly the style and morality of the remote windows, precisely because the government's purpose is not to change the law. This law has never been implemented. This law was the result of months' consultation and extremely difficult discussions between the parties, while today's Minister's project obviously does not meet these criteria. Nor do the New Democracy MPs believe it has any luck. It is characteristic that not one of you, ladies and gentlemen, took the floor during the debate in the committee. Nor was it an opportunity for the law, on this project, the statements made by Ms. Jack, on which she has been in detail, since the Prime Minister himself at the teleconferencing with the migrants of South America on 22 March had announced a similar project. The truth is that this legislative proposal also goes hand in hand with the overall hypocrisy shown by the New Democracy Party throughout this period. Is it possible, as the New Democracy's friend said, that this is the step that complements the original law? How can this be done without any consultation and, in essence, a distance from the compromise reached in 2019? And isn't that hypocritical? If you really wanted to regulate the issue of the vote, why didn't you do it until 2001, when you governed and did not apply the 2/3 requirement, which was first set in the Constitutional Review? Obviously, this question applies to both parties of the former two-party, both to New Democracy and PASOK. You are simply not telling the truth to the Greeks of the interior, the territory, or to the Greeks abroad. I have here statements from the Greek Secretary for the Dispersion of the New Democracy. Does he blame us for bilingualism and what does he say? 'The Government does not propose to participate Greeks of the third generation...'. Note: "The government does not propose to participate Greeks who are not Greek citizens and are not registered on the electoral lists. In other words, we are told," it is addressed to us, to SYRIZA, “for the “Portugal” and “Aunt from Chicago”, forgetting that we do not propose that. They are incomprehensible liars in this and are deliberately misinforming." I'll submit it to the Minutes. This is indicative of a double tongue in Orwell, a hypocrisy and a lie at the same time as internal and external. Why toward the outside? Because I am sure that the Prime Minister, when addressing the emigrants, does not say to them "Portokalos" or "gods from Chicago". It seems, with this argument, that it is trying to counter our argument that countries which have a significant Dispersion, such as our country, do not introduce an unstable vote of their relatives abroad. That is our central argument, and that is what he is trying to answer. Here, therefore, he lies to the Greeks of the territory for this reason: The New Democracy Government itself in 2007 considered that Greek foreign citizens who would have the right to vote were three million seven hundred thousand and analysed it, for example: one million eight hundred and fifty thousand Greek citizens in America, five hundred eighty thousand in Australia. But it is not just those who are in power who are in favour of the electorate, as it is imagined in the words. Because when it was government, the New Democracy did not do it before 2001. According to the Code of Citizenship, every man who comes from even a Greek ancestor has the right to take Greek citizenship and even once he has received Greek citizenship and to register him in the polls and to register on the electoral lists is automatic. So, since the first group migration of Greeks in Florida in 1758, all have the right to take Greek citizenship. In fact, the Code of Citizenship says that it is self - equitable to acquire, is a recognition of a quality that exists beforehand. Therefore, and this claim addressed to the interior, that the sizes of our dispersion with the diffusion of Israel, Armenia, Ireland - which I referred to in my speech in the committee, but which is also our main argument - are an untrue claim. The truth is what I said before. There is no country with a significant dispersion that adopts a generalised and non-weighted system of participation in the electoral process of its citizens. Countries without dispersal, but only with expatriated citizens, intended to return to the country, do they actually apply a generalised electoral right. But what did you still not tell the expatriates? That these countries are also limiting the right in this respect. This is precisely because of your hideout of reality, it seems that the Greeks do not know about it either. Listen: Canada provides for a loss of the right to participate in the election process after five years of absence from the country - five years! - Australia after six years, New Zealand just after three. Our proposal, on the contrary, has been considered by the Venice Commission, which is the institution of the Council of Europe, the best European practice for those countries that have significant citizenship. The best practice has also been considered by Mr Gerapetritis as a co-rapporteur for the relevant report by the National Committee on Human Rights. Our proposal for the Parliamentary regions is the Council's proposal from the Greek Democratic Republic and the proposal is entirely in line with the constitutional history and practice of ours. Let me remind you that Charilaos Trikoupis was a London MP in many elections, and his father, a Consulate of Greece in Great Britain, was a Member of Manchester. We propose that the elections should be held with a single ballot, and therefore the four MPs elected by a large, major foreign constituency will be four, regardless of whether they vote for one or two million in the elections in question. This also applies to the Italian, French and Portuguese model, which our proposal follows. Is this a proposal that is contrary to European legal culture? On the contrary, the European Court of Human Rights in the Sitaropoulos case v Greece justifies these criteria as fully compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights in the following way: citizens who do not live within the territory are not so directly or continuously affected by the daily problems of their country and have less information about them. Secondly - and most importantly - the criterion for the court is that there is a close link between the right to vote in the parliamentary elections and when directly influenced by the decisions of the political bodies elected in this way and mainly those of people living within the country. In this context, of course, your hypocrisy is also contrary to the objective reality of the representation of dismissals. According to our proposal, the public will have four representatives who will choose them themselves. According to the compromise that prevailed, the public will only have two representatives, since the commitment that exists in the law is in the first three polling positions to have one from the public and, indeed, from a public authority that is not chosen by themselves, will be chosen by the parties. This is the basic feature of your choices in general. You don't care that people have the right to represent, that you have the right to choose. The party is what you care about. You have criticised our choice, and you initially considered it unconstitutional. I have here a statement you made, Minister, of April 12, 2021, which you made up in committee. There you said that you are not criticising unconstitutionalism, you have no anti-constitutionality claim, you simply find this proposal wrong. Welcome backup. But know it, too, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. There is also criticism I have heard from the left, how it is possible for a left party to propose a single vote. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. We do believe that democracy is expressed through the parties, precisely because they exist in every society - and among the deceased - social and class conflicts, which are politically expressed by the parties. But when we talk about a representative in America, a spokesman in Australia, a representative in Europe, should the party differences be the dominant ones? I believe that the elected person will have his political identity, he will be able to come and participate in the parliamentary group of his choice, because, obviously, political choices cannot come under the carpet. Democrats are, however, entitled to elect their representative and on criteria for promoting national interests abroad, the total expression of the results. And every time I have gone abroad, this is what I have heard from the migrants, that is to say, they are more interested in supporting national interests than their direct involvement in party conflicts. You, of course, always have the party in mind. I would like to mention here - from a constitutional point of view, not from a political point of view - the authority of a colleague who is no longer in the House, Evangelos Venizelos. In the respective debate in 2009, what did he say? I have tabled the relevant Minutes of the House to the committee. The second solution - the first solution was the one that prevailed, through the Council of State -, says Mr Venizelos - is that one or more regions per continent, especially for the offenders, is the very best one, because it will make it possible for there to be unreasonable combinations that are voted on by fraud and - take note of this - there is no reason for them to be party combinations, Greek ones. They may also be united, national. In any case, you may not agree with what we say, you may want to keep playing these games, your party games, with the homosexuals. But here we have a compromise, the only possible compromise in the face of our differences of opinion, which Mr Mitsotakis called "national victory" in his speech about the anniversary of the Battle of Salamis in the Parliament and verb of universal Hellenism. How do you serve him? This compromise also responds to the European model. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a little tolerance, Mr President. Thank you very much. [[At this point Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We accepted the compromise proposal by the Communist Party of Greece because, in countries which do not follow the model of France, Italy and Portugal and have a significant number of their relatives outside, the system of criteria is being applied and, indeed, more stringently than in our compromise. For example, in the United Kingdom, in order to have a voting right, it must not be missing from the country for the last 15 years - 15 years instead of thirty-five years - and in Germany for twenty-five years and it has a duty to be in the country for three consecutive months, not just for a period of two years without a continuous residence throughout the 30-five years, as in ours. So, Minister, you have an important responsibility, because you do not apply this law. I have repeatedly asked you to tell us the results of its implementation. You didn't. You do not convene the intergroup committee, which is responsible for implementing the law. And here you're cheating on the evidence. There is no small number of results that may be involved in the process. It is not only the three hundred thousand who, according to the Ministry of the Interior in the discussions we had in the intergroup, have been told that they meet the criteria for taxation. All six hundred and ninety thousand Brain immigrants - so many are counted by the report by the Committee on Human Rights, to which Mr Gerapetti is rapporteur - have the right to participate, since he is thirty years old, because we have ensured that there is special rules in the law for them. A million people can vote and you don't do anything about it. And in part, to cover your responsibilities for not implementing the law, you bring a bill of gonatogram, which you know has no hope of going through. I will close with what Evangelos Venizelos once again said in the respective 2009 debate, which your proposal is similar to your original proposal, gentlemen of the New Democracy. That's what you have a consequence. About what you said in 2009 was your original proposal. So Mr. Venizelos said about this law, about your proposal: "This is not just about mockery of the impoverished Greeks, but about the degradation and the breakdown of the hard core of democracy, because there is an attempt to distort the basic rules of the electoral process." And then Mr. Venizelos ended: “Stop patriocope, the patriopathy, and the rapture of the dismissals. Citizens belong to the nation. It is not your party mechanism or your party trophy, gentlemen of the New Democracy.’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u14	And we thank Mr. Kharugalo. Please take care of the Step in order to get the floor to the Special Rapporteur of the Change Movement, Mrs. Evangelia Likoules.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament was overwhelmed by the political fireworks, which are so much, that Parliament has every reason to feel that their eyes have been hurt by the polluting light! Photopollution. Some people are still disrespecting their body. 'Impression game' today's debate. This could be the title, with the government turning into a flag of convenience, the huge political slip of the SYRIZA Division for Depopulative Hellenism, which simply attempted to engender the relatives. That's what Mrs. Jackres did, and that's what SYRIZA did. Uncovered at all levels, and now you're running and you're out of time. The Civic Opposition attempted to undermine the intelligence of the Greek people, the Greeks of the interior and abroad, with arguments for oak, a reactionary reason, with a presence that really does not do you justice. Because, no matter how much you're trying to ride the wave, you're already swallowed by the bottom. Do you see anyone in here and out of here, which is the most important, inconspicuous with you? Clear words, straight eyes. You do not want, SYRIZA does not want the vote of the results to be counted on the national outcome. Simple as that. That's nice to say. Get up here, levedica. What do you want with Evangelos Venizelos, who you say half and half are hiding, Mr. Katrugale? What do you want with him and invoke him? Has man ever said, when he analysed how to approach the Greek-democratic approach, that his vote should not be counted on the national outcome? So what do you invoke him? Why do you invoke him? So you change the word while you are the ones responsible for the cuts. So tell the emigrants who are watching us now who put cuts in the intergroup? We have here the members of the intergroup, approved, old, unknown value, Nestors of politics. They contributed to the work of the Intergroup. If it weren't for you to react, would we ever have cutters? There was the Communist Party of Greece, which had a clear position from the beginning to the end. We disagree with this position, but we respect it, because it was clear from the start to the end. What were you talking about? You said inside but go to the family and say other things. And we're thinking of the SYRIZA's attitude today, of the Officer's Response party, do you know why? Because you are the political baptist who has climbed the New Democracy and Mr. Vorides personally inexpensive. You made him a hero. So he went up to the frog, and you set him up, and the security net and the pool will fall and swim and he'll do fine to the Greeks by the way. You did all this. If there was no Mrs. Jackris in these three series in the "National Library", as if no one reads in Greece what is said abroad, could the New Democracy ever dare bring back such a prestige and weighty piece of legislation that has internal and external consequences? Now what? Sliding from the developments, you are supposed to be acquainted with and analyze things and allegedly penetrate in depth. Politic thriller is this with your star and fireworks, unfortunately, only to erase gloriously, with the victim of Greek democratism, ladies and gentlemen. And we tell them both about them and about them. Because the Greeks abroad expect from us and cannot understand political games as they are in Parliament, just for the fireworks and for the impression. They expect that this debate will actually get something out and that the two hundred will eventually gather and that they will vote for the lifting of the restrictions and that from tomorrow morning onwards they will also be able to participate equally, as the Constitution recognises them and not us. We have a duty, we have a duty. It's their right and it's our debt. But, apart from agreeing, we are being mocked by SYRIZA at the same time, because, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a measure that, I am very sorry to tell you, but you have literally lost it. You have lost the political measure of the serious, responsible, officer of the Civilian Representation which must be here, fighting on the front line, to correct the many bad texts of the government. What are you doing? So do you take the ball and throw it into the stands and bring us an amendment to a page that we read today and rub our eyes and say what? Of the fifteen Mrs. Jackres was on the outside, you bring four. You say that four regions are elected, that is, not all the migrants, four representatives of electoral districts to the people of abroad, to the Greeks abroad, doing a flagrant injustice in other regions. But at the same time what are you doing? Write this magical word at the end "self" to be elected, i.e. not included in the national result. Get out and say that. Say it loud and clear, with a narrow voice. Are you afraid to expose your position? Why are you afraid to expose your position if your position is correct? Go out and tell the world exactly what you're talking about and what you mean. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we have a very bad past with regard to this Parliament, this term of office. About a year and a half ago, in December 2019, we passed a "cut" law, because that's exactly the way the conditions arrived. Unfortunately, we made a collective effort and the Change Movement set back, as we put it in 2001. You forgot, Mr. Kumucako. That's probably what missed you, that report. As political parties, however, as a responsible legislature, you have pressed on it, so that you, New Democracy, may come and open up, as you say, the matter. How open it, we'll see. Because if you wanted today, Minister, to be the one to take a step forward rather than just to use the valet that SYRIZA gave you, but also to take an impressive leap, you should have brought the letter vote. Why didn't you bring her the letter vote? Why did you hide behind SYRIZA's refusal? Or did you also play the political secret "SYRIZA does not accept", so since I know in advance that she does not accept, so let me say that I am in front of it. Bring the proposal in complete, put it here by roll-call vote, such as each of us, to press the button on 'yes' or 'no'. Then let's all be judged. In any case, and I say it very seriously and politically, our group for the dialectic vote, Minister, will very soon bring forward a proposal for a law. I believe that it is the New Democracy that will vote in favour of the proposal for a law, so that we can all be open, everyone upright, everyone clean and everyone looking into the eyes. So what happened now is once again the Party Precision weighs to get on fire. What, then, did the party of the Officerial Representation do and does not want to stubbornly vote for this provision? How many of the presidents are there? How many will vote? What party will they choose? Will the election result be altered? Is it the lesser and safer in the end? These are the questions that have prevailed in political thought and have been expressed in the political speech. So it just happened. But this is where life and political life what do you think it is? Simple copy of the real, common life, a small, small part of society. This mirror is in here. And what are you doing? You witnessed your own hiding place. So that's what you did. No excuses, no slogans, no danger scenarios, undermining the electoral system supposedly. You have not told us that we have also undermined the national outcome, even the cohesion of the nation. It's time for everyone to be tested. The inaugural of the new round of debate, the new statements made by Mrs Jackson, who said abroad what you are not saying on the inside, that he will - fortunately did not say with an article and a law, you are marked, that you cannot say again - in any case the SYRIZA of every cut that entered when he comes to power, the cuts, as I said, which you yourself have made. This issue, which burns hundreds of thousands of people, you come and you characterize yourself progressively, that you are in a progressive direction and of course one wonders whether progress really is now your position on this matter. What progress is there, if not the courage to adopt new practices? What progress is made, if not countermeasure to conservative logic and policies characterised by attachment to trapped situations? What progress is, if not the power to overcome someone, some, an entire part of society, an entire party, even a group of parties - if you want - those fears they imagine - but only imagine - and they are not insurmountable. Progress, ladies and gentlemen, is not a seal you take or put yourself in, and you think you have it and you always carry it. It is a day-to-day political attitude, practice and choice. Of course you have the right to make a mistake and the political parties to make mistakes. Sure. I have said several times from this Step that no one thinks he has a perverted hands. I do not think anyone can say 'I have not made any mistakes' or 'I have no wrong position'. But it is not possible to falsify the very reality. It is not possible within the same last year and a half to bring back a party signature which is not only progressive, but at the same time paradoxical, is paradoxical and is challenging. Because you don't dare tell her abroad. You only say it on the inside. Of course, we understand this dreadfulness, because it is not true that the Civic Opposition of a Priori or that anyone else that the conservative majority of expatriates are hostile to the ideas of the Left and it is not true that it results from the latest election results of the European elections. But this states for the self-confidence of the self-determined progressive Left. Unfortunately, the tiny party computer, the computer of the miserable small groups at the end of the day, ends up removing a dynamic part of the Greek electorate. And unfortunately, this is a fiasco, a fiasco which we believe primarily in Civic Opposition, at the SYRIZA party. Unfortunately, we are talking about you, because you are the crucial political force that could end it today and now. Unfortunately, we see that you do not have the daring to do that and you hide in a corner. And in this corner there are three colleagues, your department, your rapporteur and one of our colleagues, following Mr Voridis' challenge at the last meeting of the committee. And in order for the world to understand what we are saying, the Minister, therefore, at the end of the committee, stood up and said: "I am today abolishing this debate. I stop her where she is. We will not go to Parliament on Tuesday, if you tell me - which you are the critical party, because you have the number, the numbers, we do not have so many for the moment, as many as you have - you will come with us and vote together to remove all the restrictions that we have introduced in the previous December 2019 law.’ And what did you do? Instead of getting up and saying "surely and yes" as Mrs Jakri said to the "National Preach" again and again, you were fled. You will allow me to say naughty fleeing because there was no one there to discuss seriously. Unfortunately, I was very sad and personally with your political attitude, because I would like to call myself progressive and describe him as you too, and I compare you with me and then I am even more sad. So instead of grabbing the opportunity and saying "here we are, now, we are going through this, but one more step, Mr Vorides, the letter vote" - not from the safe, hero of the index, as we said - you said nothing. And instead of having trouble with the government, you didn't do that either. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are all aware that this unexplained forward - behind the statements, the unexpected promises and parliamentary relics on the part of SYRIZA has cost us much toward the migrants. The government took this opportunity and made it lame. Unfortunately, once again we have seen that the Minister of Interior has become an empty shirt - and you also know that you will not collect the two people, are being mocked by the democrats - as another Achilles drag the dead body of Hector into the walls of Troy - that is what you are doing now - so that the party of Officer Response is complete and final. The special Achilles, however, of our parliamentary battle... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just two minutes, Mr. President. ...no one will notice that he finally has the wheels static, such as the well-known homonymous painting of the Austrian painter, Franz Match, "The Triumph of Achilles", who at the time was, Minister, that unfortunately, no one takes such tactics and logic. You have your responsibility too, because this fiasco that started from there, the hypocrisy that started from there, should have stopped from here. A parliamentary crusade was launched for the benefit of those who had not taken care of the necessary compositions by all those who were responsible for doing so. And unfortunately, the one who finally stays on the complaints are the ones who now, their eyes, are in the Change Movement, on our own side, which, from the outset, we said clearly and clearly: the right of vote by all Greek residents abroad who are registered on the electoral lists and on the polls. Participation in the elections with updates. Participation by letter vote. The vote shall be counted against the overall national electoral result. We're not afraid, gentlemen of SYRIZA. They're Greeks, they're compatriots. We also want them to decide on our country in which they will come. And the real representation of the results - our permanent position, which SYRIZA has taken and changed, and unfortunately it has been as it has done it and has shown it today in the way it has appeared and which is deeply regrettable - should be ensured by establishing a single region of Greek residents abroad, with five to seven Members, but who will vote and their vote will be taken into account in the national outcome. Not cuts, and that's all we're talking about, the simple facility that we wanted to give. Ladies and gentlemen, by ending, what I want to point out is that the Greekism of the Dispersion is a national power. They're not the investors, as you tell them. They're the benefactors, just like we tell them. It is their right to vote and our duty to facilitate their participation in all ways. And at this historic moment their institutional legitimacy is for us a great national issue in which we are judged and accounted for. And of course, they are the people who feel insulted, as they told us in committee, because the out-of-democratics in Germany prevented them from renamed a square in Kemal Ataturk, while the flagship president of the Hellenic Community of Brussels distributed from the Senate's Step that he would not vote in the next elections because he did not meet the tax and time requirements laid down by the law and many among us pretend that he was not heard and understood. And it is shocking, by letter sent by the people from all over the world to the former Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, on 5 July 2019, protesting their imprisonment and ending with the phrase: "It was up to you to give the right to vote for all Greeks abroad at their place of residence, without excuses, without delays, without loopholes. That was really fair and, unfortunately, you did not do so." As far as we are concerned, we will in no way be the suitors who will never let Ulysses get to his home. We will continue to fight for the right to be guaranteed at all levels, without cutters and with the safeguarding of the letter vote, such as the Change Movement and the PASOK years now strive for it. You follow us! If you don't precede, we'll catch up with you, Mr. Voridis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u16	And we thank Mrs. Liikali. Please prepare the Step in order for the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Giokas to speak. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u17	There is one basic question that we have raised from the outset and which has not been answered - convincingly at least - by the government. What is that question? Why is this debate going on today? What's the point? What is the point of discussing a bill, since there is a recent law on the vote on the results, a law adopted by a very large majority, and by your vote, Mr Kumucaku, Mr Vorides, the gentlemen and gentlemen of PASOK and others. Why are we talking about such a bill when other issues should be discussed? What would it make sense to talk about? It would make sense to discuss issues, of course, implementing this law, when we have been asking for it for a year, since the first time the Intergroup was set up within the Ministry of Interior, for a year ago, in August 2020. We should discuss issues of better information about the law - because obviously there are issues relating to ignorance and confusion - and we should also discuss issues that have to do with bureaucratic obstacles or difficulties faced by Greek immigrants, in many cases by the functioning of consular, diplomatic and other authorities, which, of course, have nothing to do with the substance of the law. It is about how you have become consular and diplomatic authorities with deforestation, with lack of staff, with a number of such issues. When the law was passed, Mr Voridis, we raised this issue in the then head of the Ministry of the Interior and asked: Are there any problems, issues in connection with the extraction, the search for the necessary public documents requested by the law, degrees, dismissals, badges, army and so on? The answer we have received from your predecessors at the time was that these issues will be resolved and can in many cases - because they are not required in all, those under thirty years of age, are not obliged under the law to prove a tax bond - and, as far as required, this issue can be ensured. Why don't you do it? Why don't you solve it? Why are you exaggerating this difficulty, which in many cases is exist, but has nothing to do with the law? Because you obviously want to undermine the application of the law - that's what you care about - the law that you voted on and now you call it obsession. He was obsessed by Mr. Vlassis, a responsible Minister of Provence of Hellenism. What's obsession? What you voted for! What you voted on is obsession. The extremity of political extremism! So this is the real reason for today's debate, the political hunger of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA, the political games that you play on the backs of the emigrants for electoral reasons when you - you, these political forces - together, of course, with the Change Movement - PASOK, are responsible for the problems faced by Greek immigrants, workers and students abroad. Whether we're talking about education issues, 80% reduction, the years of the memoranda and the crisis, the governments successively PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA reduced the funds allocated to Greek-language education by 80%. Mr. Kumucaco, isn't that a country mother's obligation? Isn't it an obligation for the mother homeland to ensure that at least the Greek language is learned, the top issue that enshrines a relationship between these people and Greece? On the question of learning Greek, Greek-language education, what did you do about it? We had 80% reductions in funds! That's why you're hypocrites and why you treat migrants as beans for voters for only reasons! At the same time, in the other obligations you have and you have as governments toward the migrants - education, the operation of consular authorities and so on - you have done absolutely nothing there. And time after year, the problems, instead of being solved, are growing more and more. And you are now showing yourself as protagonists of the frustrations, when you are responsible for these problems and not just now, but also historically, since the 1960s, when immigration has been a "glory for the place", Kanelopoulos, if I'm not mistaken. Immigration is a blessing for the place until the years of the crisis and the memorials, which this world has not left, you have persecuted it because of the policies you have taken. So, then, political extortion is the one who triggered the debate. This is on the New Democracy side. The same, of course, did SYRIZA when, while adopting the previous law and the logic of the criteria, SYRIZA's competent department, speaking in the United States of America, spoke of insulting and indiscriminate criteria. Mr Katrugale, however, you did indeed have the position you presented today in the intergroup committee. But nowhere did you say that the criteria that entered the law were offensive and unspeakable. You have never said so and you have never said so, that is what Mrs Jackson said to the United States 'National Preacher'. So here's your political extortion! Two meters and two weights, others on the inside, others on the outside, the tactics of all of you. This is the tactic of all of you, which is also expressed in today's debate. Well, I'm not talking about KINAL. We heard here that - he says - the KINAL - PASOK was always fighting for the vote of the emigrants. Let us start from 2001, let me go back, 2001, when the constitutional regulation of the two hundred votes was passed. From 2001 to 2012, how many years have you been government? Six years of government and six years of New Democracy. How many votes did you both have together? Over two hundred votes, over two hundred votes. How many times did you bring a law on the vote of the frustrations? None! None! And you come here and say that we are the party that has always fought for the vote of the frustrations. Another hypocrisy! You're coming here and what's changed? What's the difference? That the two-party competition between the New Democracy and the PASOK did not allow this law to come. PASOK has changed its position now that it is a small party and in its place SYRIZA has entered into this bipartite competition. That's why Mr. Katrugalos comes here and speaks with the words of Mr. Venizelos. That's it! These are the obidial transformations. This is political extremism, your hypocrisy, the other inside and other abroad. But what do you say to the government? You're not saying the basic thing. You show the vote of the offenders and you and the Greek Solution and the KINAL and the Mera25, which are the four parties you have the same position - you are, New Democracy, KINAL, Mera25 and Greek Solution - that it is only a matter of the aberrations, that it is only about the migrants. Oh, no! Of course it is about the migrants, but it is also about those who live inside, and you do not dare say that! You dare not say it! You dare not say in this way that what pensions will exist, what work relationships will be, what health, what taxation will not only be determined by those living internally and who suffer the direct consequences of choices, government choices and policies, but also by others who may not have any economic and social ties with the country and do not suffer the consequences of any political choice. You say that to the Greek people? You're not saying that! You've only whispered something - Mr. Voridis - that you might, he says, be on the inside too, but do not suffer the consequences. But is that possible? But is that possible? When a person lives in Greek society, is social ties not self-proof to this society? Why? Why don't you dare say that, because this matter is understood by the Greek people. It understands that the facilitation of voting should concern those who have living conditions that are similar to their own living conditions and not some who will not suffer the consequences and effects of any political choices. But you're hiding that. Indeed, they had very interesting answers given by a number of representatives of the communities at the hearing, when we asked the question as a JRC why the number not only of participation but also of the listing on the electoral lists of the Greek European elections was very low, in other words of the Greek MEPs. The answer given to us and not just once - and to the previous hearing of bodies, which had taken place in the previous law, was the same answer - was this. In addition to the difficulties they have put forward, in terms of the functioning of embassies, consulates abroad and others, the main reason they have demonstrated was that 'we prefer to participate in the elections to promote German MEPs, Swedish MEPs, Belgian MEPs, because we have linked our lives and our future to a greater extent with these countries. And we do well," these people say! Of course! Is this a technical matter? Is it an election issue? Or is it a deep social issue that we need to take into account? Much more so when it comes to Greece, there is yet another peculiarity. There is a general, extensive application of the anachronistic law of blood, which enables Greek citizenship and automatic registration to be acquired on the electoral lists if someone proves that even one of his distant ancestors was of Greek origin. This also involves automatic listing on the electoral lists. Shouldn't we take that into account? Should we not bear in mind that potentially in the electoral lists another country, part of which, over the years, in the generations of immigrants, may be able to honour its origin, to love Greece, has lost social and economic ties? It forms a criterion and a conscience based on the reality of another country. It does not have the necessary information and information on political developments in Greece. Shouldn't we take that into account? Of course we need to take this into account and we need to take it into account and we and the Greek people, who agree that such a possibility should be avoided. So we have come to the proposal that we have put forward as a JRC sincerely, without regularisation, on the basis of principles and which we have explained in the same way both internally and abroad, a proposal that was on the opposite side and the proposal of the New Democracy and the rest of the group of parties that I mentioned and the SYRIZA's proposal for the single vote. What does it mean by a single ballot? A single ballot cannot exist because it is not uniform. The union has the Essus Pope, as well as the worker of the German factories. These two, the Essus Pope and the worker, will be expressed by the same voter in the name of some national ideals and others? Of course they cannot be expressed by the same single ballot! That is why there is a class differentiation, and that is why there must be a different political and social position. And you come here with a deep reactionary rhetoric, especially the one that Mrs Jackis has developed in committee, and you are in favour of unified lists, as if it were uniform! In the face of these proposals, therefore, the JRC's proposal was that there should be criteria, that the vote should be facilitated, but that facilitation should relate to those whose living conditions are similar to those of Greece. And so the relevant criteria have been met, namely, the tax bond attesting to a social relationship, the minimum presence in the country - two years in the last thirty-five years - and the self-representative presence in the electorate. Are these criteria arbitrary? Did they arbitrarily arise from our minds, was it a party whim? Oh, no! These criteria exist in the legislation of too many countries, and even in the case of countries which you call them advanced: the United States, Germany, Britain. There are these criteria. Why do these countries make these criteria? In fact, the larger the population of the countries than the population in the country is, the more stringent the criteria. Because there are countries such as Ireland or Israel, which have a large number of loopholes, which completely forbid this vote, the facilitation. Why are they doing this? Don't you understand why they're doing this? These criteria have also been formulated in the established case-law of the European Court of Human Rights and in particular the judgments in this case have been formulated by intervention of the Greek Governments, as in the case of Sitaropoulos, where it says: National rules laying down the right to vote for residence in the country are legitimate in terms of Article 3 - Doyle v United Kingdom - where it considered that the suspension of the right to vote imposed by the United Kingdom on migrants who have completed 15 years of residence abroad is compatible with Article 3. As in similar other cases, in that case the court found that the long-term establishment in another country could lead to a relaxation of the ties between the deprivation and the country of nationality and their limited commitment only by the rules laid down by its public bodies, governments, parliaments and others. As the court reiterates in the Sitaropoulos case, three main reasons justify the establishment of residence within the country as a condition for the right to vote: the more limited knowledge of the constituents of the country's daily problems, their fewer opportunities to participate in the electoral process, and the fact that the laws passed by parliament concern first of all those who live within the territory. So here's the criteria you don't want. It is the European Court of Human Rights and it is in many other cases. Can there be any injustices in the application of these criteria? Sure. We didn't say they might not exist. In other words, there should be someone from the public in some cases who actually has an affair or does not fill in etc. But you're making a general application. And surely these injustices are much smaller than the injustice that would result if the "instruments and outside" were formed, when in marginally possible results the vote of people who have nothing to do with Greek reality was decisive. Then it would be the very great injustice and divisive reasoning that would develop. So I shall end, Mr President. These criteria are perfectly reasonable, compatible with international practice and with Greek reality. You voted for them. Now you don't like them and say they're obsessed. It's your right. Political extortion is a political right. We believe, however, that this should be a criterion. The problems of the emigrants you have accumulated are a criterion to turn your back on and one more criterion must be the boom of this debate. Your hypocrisy, political extortion and the political games you play on the back of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u18	And we thank Mr. Gioka. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Heitas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the draft law on the vote of revenue proves in fact your government policy, which, unfortunately, for the country and for the Greeks, is entirely identical to your political and party pursuits. It's, you know, very bad state, the state, the government using unfair means to loyally follow its end, its party, if you like, an agenda. But you're not content with that. Be ungodly. That's the worst. You don't respect. You do not hesitate to use the relentless Hellenism as a tool in your hands to make your perfect campaign. And we are reaching your ultimate goal now, in your real aim, not only of this bill but of all the bills. Of course the national interest seems to be not a priority - and that is against the New Democracy, which has arrived there - and not with the interests of all Greeks. Your purpose is one: How to become good, how to win the impressions, how to win the next elections. There's your mind. That's why we always say our minds are in the next generations. Yours is in the next election. And in order to achieve all this, you are taking unreserved advantage of the abstaining Greeks simply for the vote. And you do so unwittingly, it's so terribly creepy, it's making a impression. But this hypocritical attitude, Mr Voridis, is not acceptable to us. From the Greek Solution this attitude cannot be accepted. Listen to something, as Immigrant children, President Kyriakos Velopoulos, many years there, and his parents there, the speeches there, eleven years I, the Minister, and sixteen my forgived mother and my father, are very sensitive to the Greeks who live in the various lengths and backs of the planet. All of us left with bitterness in the soul, tears in the eyes, make it a little picture. We're as sick as a few of them. And these people who are out there listening to us today, bleeding their souls. Those who haven't lived, I really tell you, you can't understand what it's like to leave behind family, friends, homeland. You don't get it. All right, you may feel sorry. You haven't lived it, see what that is. It's like it's you, it's a part of you. That's why they're two Greeks. And despite the unfavourable conditions in the 1960s, to go to the Brain Drain with the six hundred and seven hundred thousand Greeks. Greek first generation immigrants, she, with a very high head, made an effort to prove their value and to assimilate. And, unlike some disgusting guys who dared to compare with the invasion of illegal immigrants, we then respected the countries that were accepted to us. The Greeks respected the countries that accepted them. They didn't have any privileges or benefits, they didn't have a shower. Work, work, work! They worked for three generations. They stayed together. They have been able not only to take the cut off, but to diversify, to achieve it in their own field. We are talking about these people today, about whether these people have the right to vote! And we're talking about it in the Greek Parliament! We are discussing whether these people have the right to vote! Are we in any good shape? And you know they won with their sword the respect of all. They've set up a road. They opened - if you want - doors for the next ones. And the Greeks of that generation worked hard. Ask them where they worked. Inhuman conditions, factories, quarrying, mines, farms, just to save a little money. And what's the thanks of mom home? How's mom home for them? What did he do for them all these years? Do you know what Mom's been doing home all these years? Instead of making them proud - and I am addressing PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA, who ruled this poor Greece and threw it on the rocks - they say loud outside that they are Greeks, they are proud to say so, we have made them whisper it for some years. Why, we do not want, with what happened within the country, we were able to make synonymous with the word "Greek", where we used to say "Greek", where culture, labour, at some point became the same as the predator, the remulsion, unreliableness and whispered. Nevertheless, Greek expatriates did and still do everything really, keep Greece high. And they do it for their love for their country. It's so unselfish, love for the homeland. And through this whole process they managed to maintain both our culture and our identity out there. Number one was meant to keep the Greek tradition, the Greek language and the Greek language. And you come here today, these people I described, to work on without any shame, to pick up bribes, crosses. It's a disgrace! You can no longer make fun of us for your intentions - your intentions are clear - not at least the Greek Solution. Well, I'm sorry to ask you something, why are we going to go crazy in this place? Aren't you the same government, the same Ministry, that you were, a while ago, in December 2019, bringing us to vote on a bill in terms of conditionality? You'll tell me now: "Slowly, Greek Solution, this is where we've made reunification and on more serious issues, we've taken the world championship in reunification as a New Democracy, how would we do another one? Slowly now!’ You're in the fuckin' booth. You don't care anything. And you even presented it as one of the greatest successes - I remember - that bill. Great bill, guys, let's vote the whole thing! We ask for a consensus! That's a great bill you brought in a year and a half ago with limitations. So what happened now? What happened, Jackie talked? What changed in a year and a half? What's going on? The Greek Solution, however, unlike you and we are proud of our clear positions, does not change either its beliefs or its beliefs. That's what you do, but card, whatever suits you whenever it suits you. You have no values, no value. Now let Mr Kumoucasakou's touchings on the founding declaration of the New Democracy. What does the New Democracy of 1974 have to do with the New Democracy of today? Don't talk to me again today. If we're challenged, I'll see you. We won't say anything for now. All the Greeks of the Diaspora, this is the conviction of the Greek Solution, from day one we called it, not a step back we did not do, must have the right to vote, wherever they are. And it's really a sacrilege for us to take advantage of the emigrants for their vote. And here you know, Mr Voridis, there is the great difference between the Greek solution and the ruling party, I will not say new democracy, but the ruling party. We believe in principles, ideas, values. We don't trade them, we don't sell them. We believe the power we have when all Greeks are united and that doesn't change. That is why, in order for the vote to take place in the November 2019 bill, we expressed our reservations, expressed our objections - very strong - to the restrictions, but we put back to the law to be passed, so that the Greeks who left for a better life would have voiced. And we, Minister, do not make any changes in everything we say and what we do. This is your trait. Ask, if you would like, the Greek provers, you, who are cut and cared. What do you really think the Greeks are saying about your attitude to the Skopje? Ask a question. The other day, we had twenty unions, I won't tell them bodies that were collaborative. "Boys, can I ask you something, are we good with Skopje? Are you satisfied? Can we change it?’ What do you think Greeks abroad say about your inability to illegal immigration, about the country's settlement? Ask them. What is it, do you believe, the view of the Greeks abroad, Mr Voridis, on the subtleness shown by the Greek Government to the Turks and ELIAMEP, to the Docus and all of them? Ask these Greeks: “What is your opinion, gentlemen? We as a New Democracy legislate for parent and parent 2.’ Ask them! Ask them about the bat. ‘You are proud, are you satisfied?’. Ask these Greeks. Ask about sensitivity "we're good, we're good at it, you guys, we're very sensitive to LGBTKI, while we don't support the Greek family at the same time." Ask how these Greeks feel, who saw seven hundred thousand Greeks leaving abroad in a second wave of immigration. Ask them! You don't ask them. You play games, Jackie, I'll hit SYRIZA like an octopus down politically. It's good to support it two or three months. He's gonna blow up, Mr. Catrugale. Won't he come in? He'll blow up and go in peace. That's what's gonna happen, but it's really embarrassing. So if you really did care, Minister, about the Greeks' view and not your party interest, you would ask them, but you do what you have to do. You're on duty. You'll do and pass whatever laws you have to pass. You do not really care about the views of the Greeks of the diaspora and there is evidence. Let's get to the evidence. Why at the end of 2019 - I asked a question logically, did we say our basis is reasonable - did you not take into account the views and comments of the peer consultation? Then to your old shoes. Whatever they were saying, you threw it aside. Why were you ignorant of them, and now you are rushing to correct injustices and errors that you, for God's sake, have done? Let me say that you're bringing a bill that changes SYRIZA's legislation to understand it. This is a perversion. This is where we are talking, science must take action. There's no such thing. Yours are changing, it's unbelievable! Really, does the policy and the planning of the legislature depend on the statements made by a Member of the Police Department? Is the statement by SYRIZA, Jacquere, Heta, that is, they have greater value for you than the statements and reflections of the homosexuals themselves, to the extent that you are legislating and directly? In other words, the expatriates speak, the expatriates call and say, "Mom home, I want to participate in the public, don't turn my back on me" and ignore them. Now Jackie and you're doing this? It's awesome, unbelievable! Do you understand that? By such criteria, are you ruling and making decisions on the country and on all Greeks? Are these your criteria? The truth is, of course, you're the same as SYRIZA, we're not talking about it. We've said it and we'll say it until it's black snow. You're the same as SYRIZA in the big and important. In the little ones, there we are gonna fight a little, make some impressions, a little micropolicy, show our difference. But in the big and important, you're the same. Only for communal reasons of cohort fights. But everyone is aware that you are abolishing the restrictions you have imposed by the bill only to gain impressions and emigrants in the elections. Listen, we'll see you as it is. Obviously, we've lived through it, and we know it. Obviously, the Left is whispering, weeding, he knows there's not much beans out there. What do you guys think? We're talking between us now. Let's talk about it like things are. That's their problem. It will be history, that the left parties are in the way of being able to vote from the Greeks abroad. Because all these people have houses here, they have families here, they have everything here. They haven't been cut off. They have relatives, friends, interests, fields, they have something. They don't care about Greece? Maybe they'll be back tomorrow, I didn't get it. Should they not have a country in which they will return at some point that participated with their vote in its formation? I do not think you could understand that you have been given a line, Mr Voridis, from the meetings of the committee responsible. Do you know what the presidents told us? I don't say it, the Greek solution doesn't say it. It's not me or Mr. Velopoulos. The President-in-Office told the committees. What did they say? They talked about two categories of Greeks. Did you get the message? For two speed Greeks. They spoke of exclusion criteria and not of facilitation. They talked about photographic laws. They talked about a sterile opposition. They talked about party interests. Did you hear that? This is our image out for these people. Their frustration is very great, mostly for the state, who turns their backs and doesn't listen to them. And now you want to convince them that you suddenly care and listen. How can you care against the best ambassadors in our country abroad? They're transferring our history, transferring our culture, our national identity. Question: Can someone in our country not want them and discourage them? Is it possible to fear their voices and vote and to restrict, 'no tax declarations', 'no army', 'no phone', 'no addresses', 'no must you be bored'? Is that possible? These people are Greece, they smell of Greece out there, understand it. We all know very well how much risks our country is facing right now, especially out there. The vote on the motions for resolutions is a national matter and not an opportunity, as the government is currently dealing with it. It is something that we in the Greek Solution at the beginning stressed the importance of, how necessary it is to facilitate these people. One, two, three times he'll say sometime I'm not going. "I'm not going, you guys, nowhere, you took my soul off!" That is why the Greek Solution will never be contrary to provisions that make the electoral process more accessible, more barbarian. Mr. President, I'm closing. I'll pass long enough to say so I won't use any more time. The Greeks, the Greeks of the Greeks, are an integral part of our country and history. They are Greeks and must participate equally in the emergence of the rulers. Now 'the four regions', 'no', 'two maybe', 'in fifteen can', these are, if you'll excuse me, political gaps, not to say anything else, because I am at the Step of the House. Is it possible that every illegal immigrant can vote in a few years, who enters our country, who is baptized "Greek" and that not all of our fellow citizens who are currently living in every corner of the planet can vote? In the vote of the Greek Parliament, the people are involved in the public. And what's going on? Our democracy is strong. With the vote of the Greek Prime Minister our country, we all become stronger in these very difficult times. So we have a moral obligation, we have a duty to the Greeks, to the Greeks and to our country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u20	And we thank Mr. Heta. And we are completing the first cycle of speeches by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the parties with the special employer of Mera25, Mrs Fotini Bakada. You have the floor, Mrs. Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning as Mera25 we have recognised and continue to recognise the need for compatriots living outside Greece to participate actively in the political activities of the country. From the first moment we talked about the importance of allowing the Greeks of the Diaspora to vote from their homes without any restriction and with their vote to be absolutely equal to that of the rest of the citizens. That is why we have drawn up a proposal respecting the inalienable rights of election and election of the non-Greeks. It was a proposal for a law originally tabled in Parliament and in the public debate and, of course, was also the basis of our proposals to the intergroup committee set up by the then Minister for the Interior before the 2019 bill, but it was also tabled today as an amendment. So, what do we propose as Mera25 on the right to vote on our proven compatriots? I shall dwell on the main points of the proposal, because we consider it extremely important that the Greeks who listen to us, both inside and outside Greece, have a clear picture of the proposals of each party. The first step, therefore, is the establishment of six electoral regions of Greeks (EPCs). North America PSUR, Europe, Central and Latin America, Australia - Zealand, Asia, Africa. If the numbers of registered voters insist on the splitting up of a constituency or more of them, if we had taken the step of their adoption, it could have been done with a simple amendment. Second step: Calling for immigrants with citizenship who are already on electoral lists of their country of residence to declare, if they so wish, the transfer of their electoral rights to their country of residence. Third step: Invitation to emigrants who have a legal right to obtain Greek citizenship, but have not exercised it by naturalists, naturalisations, applications for citizenship under existing legislation and at the same time requesting their registration specifically on the electoral list of their country of residence. All in all, we say and say, we ask, we propose that the percentage of the seats corresponding to the local elections should be equal to the percentage of those registered in the European Parliament in terms of the total number of Greek voters. Let us look at a simple arithmetic example, to make it even clearer. Assuming that so far 10 million citizens have been registered on the electoral lists. Even though eight hundred thousand of those who are out of the public are transferring their electoral rights to an outside electoral district and, in addition, they are registered in an outside constituency of another two hundred thousand from the public, for example Greeks of later generations that were not already registered, first gaining citizenship in accordance with existing legislation. Overall, in this example, the voters now amount to 10 million two thousand, one million of whom have been registered in a foreign constituency, a percentage of 9.8%. In this case, on the basis of our own proposal, twenty-nine seats will correspond to the abstaining Greeks. The distribution of the foreign seats, as I have said, must be done in an entirely proportionate manner. The vote also proposed that embassies, consulates and other specially designed places be held under the supervision of the Greek consulate and diplomatic authorities. This ensures equality, but we also offer a huge incentive to the migrant Greeks to organise more in the communities in their countries of residence, to register in the electoral districts abroad, finally to have real representation by sending to the Greek Parliament their own representatives, who will be ambassadors to their country of residence and a link to the country of residence with Greece. So if we look at the characteristics of the Greeks living outside our country now, because they are not all a common category, we are incapable of finding two main categories: on the one hand, we have children, the immigrants of the crisis, the Brain children, and on the other hand, we have those who have emigrated and left many years earlier. For the first, the children of the crisis, given their strong relations with the Greek reality, should be given the opportunity, unless they want something different, to vote from their residence for the constituencies in which they would live in Greece as well. The remaining, second, third, fourth generation Greeks, should be able to vote for the local elections. If we were to proceed with the creation of these constituencies, then we would really enable our fellow citizens, our compatriots, not to feel second-class citizens, to have the voice of the family within the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, all our compatriots who came to the hearing of the bodies in the committee, representing communities and federations of Greeks abroad, shared with us their bitterness and a complaint, how they feel that Greece is treating them as second-class citizens. It's something we can't ignore. We can't close our eyes. We must recognise and do what we can to stop this complaint. The creation of electoral districts of Greeks is the only way to demonstrate that we respect them, treat them as part of our flesh and not as beans that we will sum up in an election result and that alone. Unfortunately, both the previous law of 2019 and today's amendment mocks the migrants, telling them that we are giving them something, we are giving them the right to participate in the elections from their homes. Today we are taking a step further, giving it to them and without any limitations, without any cuts. However, we deprive them of a basic right, the right to crusade, a right they have and will have if they choose to take a plane and come to Greece to vote. We ask them to vote for a list of states, to choose a party only and not the candidate for their choice. I will now move on, because it is extremely important. They also referred to this and to colleagues before me, but it is really worth considering the time and way in which the amendment came to be discussed, which goes on to remove the restrictions that the law Theodorikou had introduced. Timely, SYRIZA's head of department said in an interview that SYRIZA will abolish all restrictions when it becomes government. This is probably a classic way of opposing SYRIZA, which will ultimately not end up. It takes us to 2015 to tear up memorials that never happened. A memorial was added, rather than someone was torn apart. Let me make it clear, however, as far as the New Democracy is concerned. We are not surprised that the New Democracy is changing laws that it has adopted. We have also seen it in a recent law by the Ministry of Interior, which also amended articles of the recent law on SAEP. We are not at all surprised at the fact that both the Communism and the Opposition operate only in communication. The New Democracy is legislating on communication, SYRIZA is oppositioning, because there is really no other way to interpret the submission of an amendment that is given that it will ultimately not pass, because it needs a broad majority of it, with two hundred votes not to be gathered. How else can the fact that he speaks a SYRIZA MEP for the future removal of the restrictions on the vote and when the government's answer comes - why have the democrats become ping-pong - that SYRIZA is voting against the bill? You know that, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the Co-Population, that the figures are not enough to vote in favour of the bill and the amendment we are debating today. You did it with the sole aim of not winning the impressions of SYRIZA. SYRIZA now, for his part, is trying to win a piece of the communication pie too, putting the question of the electoral regions abroad intensified. In the last committee, Minister, you have responded to this, and today, proposing to stop the debate on the bill and open up the electoral districts abroad. Personally, I did so in committee, and I will do so today, I really ask you to stop it. It is the only way to discuss the electoral regions abroad and indeed to come up with a proposal for the benefit of the non-Greeks. Do you remember what you said to me? You obviously remember what you replied to me, you answered it, and you said it in a similar manner today. You said to the committee 'Let SYRIZA tell me and I will do so'. Today you said at the beginning of the sitting that 'the debate has no meaning at all when SYRIZA does not agree'. This phrase alone, this attitude of both parties proves and underlines the importance you attach to communication and image. And you know what, Minister? SYRIZA won't tell you, just like you won't open the conversation. And you know why? You know that very well. Because neither party is interested in their emigrants and rights. You are both working on them according to the beam, but you have no intention of listening to them and helping them to become active members of the country's political life. Go remember them on a national anniversary, some official event and some foreign trip or an interview in the middle of the outside. But let us be honest with each other and with the citizens who listen to us. Both the New Democracy and SYRIZA fear the migrants, fear their voice, fear their vote. Especially fear the generation of Brain Drain, the generation that the parties of the Memorandum Arc have sent abroad all hands - hand, side by side, one after side. You are afraid of their reaction and how it will be recorded if you give them the right that they retain if they come to Greece on the day of the elections. But you are afraid to give it to them to exercise it in the country where you sent them to emigrate, in the country where they are trying to make a better life, as they unfortunately see that they have no future if they return to Greece. You do not want to have representatives in the next House either of the children of the crisis or of the second, third or fourth generation Greeks. And it's clear now, I don't think anyone has any doubts, that New Democracy and SYRIZA are the two sides of the same currency. Partyes that turned the country into a debt colony, into a devastated debt colony, parties that maintained this regime with SYRIZA to crush every last vote of freedom and hope in July 2015. Now what are you doing? Now you look abroad and, instead of apologise to the Greeks whose suitcase for traveling to the hostel you made it, you prepare it, after you have emptyd every dream and hope, look at them and gladly lie to them that you want to give them the right to vote. You continue their conscious work with "Metsotakis S.A." to have the first and the "Tsipras E.E." to run. Only in name and equity composition are you different. You are two power management companies for the benefit of the domestic and foreign parasitic oligarchy and up to that point. You are arguing about who will win the communication batch, as in all previous years you have been struggling about who will be the most good and obedient student in Brussels and Mrs Merkel. If you are interested in the outgoing people, recognise the right and respect their right to vote and vote. Go on to the debate on the local elections, recognizing that everyone should vote, without any exception, and that their vote is equal to that within Greece. Prove that you're not the New Republic of Oligarchy and SYRIZA of the fucking mugba. We as we did in 2019, so we will vote against today, considering that the only solution is to understand that you cannot continue to view Greeks as second-class citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u22	And we thank Mrs Bakadima. We shall begin with the first circle of Members of Parliament. I call on the New Democracy MP, Mr. Ioannis Andrianos. Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of some references made by the previous colleague, I would like to point out that it is right to respect the institutions, the Prime Minister, the Chief of Staff, all representatives of the Greek nation and not to deceive them in this way, not to level them out with such reports. We have heard contradictions. On the one hand we fear the Greeks abroad and their vote, but on the other hand, we come here and make it easier for them. So if we were afraid of them, we wouldn't make it easier for them to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to significantly improve the provisions of the law and to facilitate the exercise of the right to vote on Greek citizens abroad. Already in the previous law brought by the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis incorporated synthetic proposals from all democratic political forces and we have achieved an important step towards strengthening the quality of our democracy. This is because, since technological potential now permits it, since there is know-how and the rich experience of other countries, no argument can be taken against facilitating the vote of the deceased. I would remind you that the law rightly provides for facilities for the exercise of the electoral right by democrats, from the place of their residence. I would also remind you that Greek women and Greek citizens have their own right to vote and are able to exercise it today, if they are in the country on the day of the elections, at the polling centre where they are registered. It is true that some of the terms and limitations of the current law, the inclusion of which was requested by the Opposition in order to consent to its resolution, are quite problematic. This is because very simply the conditions and restrictions are not applicable to Greek citizens either, but also to permanent residents abroad, who can choose to go home to exercise the right to vote. After all, only the possession of the identity or passport of the Hellenic Republic, that is to say, the identification documents required, for the foreign exercise of the right to vote, would be easy to claim that it should be the only requirement to do so. The additional complex bureaucratic processes, however, when it is justified on the basis of the need to document the maintenance of a living relationship with the country, have created reasonable shadows in the joy of the Greek citizens of the diaspora, who have seen that it is a permanent and self-evident request that they become a reality, but in practice this self-evident right is linked in terms and conditions that do not apply to the rest of the Greek citizens and make their exercise difficult even impossible for many. Of course, the New Democracy Government, Mr Mitsotakis, consciously chose to take this first important step, systematically preparing the next one, which would complete this effort. It is therefore necessary, too, to complete this effort, and now the SYRIZA Head of Department publicly acknowledges that these excessive conditions and restrictions must be lifted. It is therefore time to take this necessary step as well and in practice to guarantee equality between Greek citizens regardless of where they live. The principle that the same facilities for the exercise of the electoral right should apply to each Greek and every Greek, as well as to the principle that each Greek citizen should be counted equally in the final result cannot be called into question by arguments. So in the face of our democratic right to vote, no other micro-political planning can take priority, no political power can weigh whether or not it will help to ensure the institutional and practical conditions to facilitate the exercise of the right to vote for every Greek citizen, on the basis of its assessment of whether this vote will ultimately contribute to it. In this light, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are all called upon to prove two things: firstly, that we prioritise the Constitution, its fundamental principles and forecasts and, secondly, that we honor Greek citizens abroad, in practice recognising a fundamental component of their equality before the law against the Greeks who live at home. Ladies and gentlemen, that is precisely the content of the concept of progress. As long as we have proved to be the institutional and practical possibility of guaranteeing in practice a fundamental right, which to date, despite constitutional provisions and guarantees, cannot be exercised by many of our fellow citizens, progress must be made by willingly exploiting all relevant possibilities. The promotion of propositions, excessive conditions, which run counter to the principle of equality, and ultimately inexorable, insuperable obstacles, reveal fear of democracy itself. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this second, necessary step and to complete together our self-evident obligation to Greek citizens abroad who, by the constitution, have exactly the same rights and obligations as any of their compatriots who live home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u24	We are also grateful to Mr Andriano and to him for the consistency in time. I call on Stepma SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Mr Constantine Zachariadis. Immediately after the speech, the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kostas Scandalidis, will be given. Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to ask: is the Commander of the NSA, after what happened in the last few days in the country, still in his place? Here there is a major issue for the safety of citizens. They're struggling agents in the country's airports. Here we remember that the conditions of the law have changed, so that someone who did not have a higher degree in AEI, with a degree in music, can be placed in this position. And today we have this situation. Will these questions be answered, Minister, by the government? These are very serious issues for national security, for the security of citizens, for foreign policy, for our international relations. I look forward to hearing about this bill about the position of the Minister, Mr. Voridis. I make a provision: The greater indulgence, the greater challenging, the greater the challenge, the greater its motto, its movements, its style, and even the wilderness from the Step of the House. Mr. Voridis, I admired you this weekend. I was looking at your oldest placement in the cannabis bill. Amazing! You said incredible things! Your movements, your passion, your tension, theatricality, an absolute performance! And the last day in the nominal pro for your buddy! So, from now on, Minister, we will know that the more you yell, the greater you lie, the more likely you may be to change them in the shortest future. And I would like to ask you: the new proposal for the vote on the motions for resolutions when do you intend to bring it? September, December, March 2022? Why am I saying that? Because in December 2019, we voted and the Prime Minister said: "National victory the bill for the vote on the flaws. I am proud that this is on the initiative of the New Democracy and, it seems, with a great cross-party consensus.’ That's what the Prime Minister said then. We were told by Mr Vorides, Mr Kumucascus, Mr Vlassis, that he is wrong, that he is obsessed, what the Prime Minister was saying at the time. It's clear you've regretted. But to have a serious parliamentary procedure, how many times does it open up a subject in a parliamentary term? Mia? Two? Four? The vote on the motions for resolutions will be taken at least twice. Therefore, instead of working together to implement the law that we have all adopted together, you come and undermine the application of the law. I have asked the Greek Parliament many times and I have not received an answer - so I ask again - what happened from where the former Minister, Mr Theodorikos, said 'a consensual intergroup for the campaign of the vote on the motions for resolutions' and we went to the direct delegation? The Minister has changed. Yes, sir! We understand that. Did something else change? You, Minister, have stated that the policy of the New Democracy is in place. Well, it doesn't. What's changed? Are you lying? Was Mr. Theodorikos lying? Anyway, someone was saying. I'll tell you what's really going on. You see the emigrants in voting terms. You've always seen them that way. And this isn't just about your party, it's about the other former big party. I'm talking about KINAL and PASOK. I am referring to the debate that took place in the committees on the time-consuming positions of the parties and, of course, on what was happening in the country before the 2001 Constitutional Review. Before the 2001 Constitutional Review, anyone with fifty-one votes could change the law on the participation of emigrants in elections. The Simitis government didn't do it, the Mitsotakis government didn't do it. The 3% coalition had to do it, you'll tell me now. We'll hear that too. So what you've done and done is you see the deportees as voter tanks. That's why you want to split them, so you want to work on them. For you, the out-of-democratics are Mr Diadiaris' fake excellence, who became Minister and left at night. We believe that democrats are a force for their homeland, and that is why I would like to ask. Apart from continuing to bring a law on electoral participation, by exploiting the democratic Hellenism, which is power, what have you done on the issues of commercial diplomacy, economic diplomacy, foreign policy diplomacy? How has this Greece, which is outside Greece, been exploited there, but loves Greece and wants to help? Look carefully - and I think it is particularly interesting - at the previous statement by Mr Laskaridis, the shipowner, not the part that made noise, the others. Look what he said: "What you need to understand well is that the people of shipping do not need the government, the Ministry, IMO and the Prime Minister." Then it says the phrase... And then: “They don’t need anything. Why? Because shipping has nothing to do with Greece. There's nothing a shipowner can gain in Greece. There are no cargoes in Greece. There are no voyages in Greece.’ Shouldn't we, Minister, do something to get them? To be a financial channel of Hellenism? To have a print on the country? Do we not all know the unfortunate expression that when the doors of strong business interests close, politics - and with little and no sons - is shrinking so much? These are the major issues that concern universal Hellenism and those who live in Greece and those who live outside Greece. That's what we need to see. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. We therefore honour our vote in 2019. We didn't regret it like you did. We weren't mistaken. We do not believe that it is obsessed with what has been voted on. We think we did the right thing, the national benefit. We'll work to get the money involved. Our rapporteur has explained our position to you before we move. We're not afraid to move and compose. We don't have allergies. And I want to hang up with this. No one, whether living in Greece or living outside Greece, should forget and forget the reasons that led our compatriots to leave Greece. Most of my friends, most of my classmates, most of my students are out of Greece right now. We don't forget. We do not forget the bankruptcy of 2008-2009. We do not forget the management and obsessions of 2010-2015. We are present, within and outside the country, to take our lives and the fate of the country in our hands. Thank you and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Zachariadis. We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. I just want to restore in a more solid way both the historical precedents and the real purposes which today's debate serves. I think that that is where we should start and also in order to finally open up a dialogue that looks towards the future. Why repeating the same arguments in the same monotonous way for so many years and doing nothing proved to be either serious against a whole part of Hellenism or so effective for the functioning of democracy. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So I want you to allow me a little reference to the past. Before 2001 - because 2001 there was an incision - the permanent controversy that even existed in the big parties between when the elections were to take place, one party said it would do so and the other one said it was not mature time, it was a rhetorical controversy. There were no conditions, no electoral lists, no evidence, no information, nothing. It was, therefore, a political confrontation in the air, with political purposes, obviously. All parties measured their ability to win or lose in a similar election campaign. The difficulties, however, appeared unsurpassed. Let's go to 2001. There was an incision. We can't talk about it before 2001. In 2001, I will not only go to the letter vote that was guaranteed, because it was also the development of technology and the development of democratic and parliamentary procedures in general through their modernisation, it was the abolition of electoral books. Did you ever think about having elections with the deputies when they voted in Greece dead with election books, which were full of people? I remember that in the intergroup committee - I think I have said this in this Chamber before - when we had a debate to delete them over a hundred years ago, there was a great reaction, because they would have the right to go over a hundred years ago with a statement from them, because they were municipal elections then to vote, so we did not exclude them from voting. But, to make it clear at last, we had to take it to a hundred ten, because the parties did not accept, fearing that it would become fraudulent in the elections, which had no way of committing any illusion. It was this lack of credibility, the crisis of confidence that governs the political system, which still governs it today. Then the electoral books were abolished and the polls were made, the electoral lists and the polls were cleared over time, so that the electoral lists can be made and the elections in Greece are done in the simplest and most reasonable way. And there's a second big move. For the first time the hetero-states voted and became a model for the election of the hetero-democrats. This model is currently being used by the government, so that it can have elections with the emigrants with special electoral lists, as was done with the heterodians. And the epitolemic vote came with her constitutional assurance. If, in the coming years - and this is our position - we can become universal through fair and proper procedures, there will not even be any need for this whole model of the hetero-democrats that is now to be applied to foreign affairs. This is an objective analysis. Then, of course, fearful policies, opinions on what is of interest to us, what is not of interest to us. All parties and now they do the same. But that's coming second. Second big change. It changed the electorate - it is not the same - of the Greeks of the Diaspora, because it is no longer America and Australia, which is a large percentage. It is a huge Europe and a huge world outside it and people who have left many, many more on the electoral lists than those who were old, who have been living abroad for twenty years, who have been in direct contact with Greece and its problems. He changed the electorate and the phobia of who will vote, how to vote and so on. Not even the parties now, among us, have the ability they had in earlier times to make the door - door - door and collect one - one, to look for him and give him the ballots to go to vote. The world has moved on, children, moved on, and we are mature to take a big step. So the Intergroup has taken the big step? Oh, no. You support the cross-party, and you do well, because that has resulted in a lot of suffering and a lot of trouble and a lot of debate. Since we did not manage to convince the main points that we had to be more bold, we reached a transitional solution - and I described it at that time - because the law will be changed again. Can Mr. Voridis change him? It cannot change it on the substance. And why can't he change him? 'Cause Mr. Voridis obviously follows an operatic process. He took the reaction of the justified foreigners and took the opportunity to win votes. That's his right! The question, to remember an old phrase, Minister, is not whether legality is moral or legal. Maybe the law is moral, too, I don't know. But while you knew that all parties - apart from ours - and SYRIZA, and above all the JRC would be against this proposal that you have brought, I mean - you would bring it with a non-normal legislative function. When after a year you voted for a law to which we all agreed, you now obviously brought a law for reasons of political feasibility, to win some votes as well. That's the whole point. So you made a political game, in fact players, at the expense of the Greeks of the diaspora. Why do we say 'yes' to what you say and say 'yes' to make them more bold? Why should the House enter into the reasoning of the great section that requires the next stage of the parliamentary and electoral process and accept the mesh of principles that must be governed without fear, without party suspensions, without anything, what today fits in today's and tomorrow's times and not yesterday's, or even worse, in yesterday's and its purposes. And what do we say very simply? It's four things very specific. It is an insult to challenge the right to anyone - but to whomever land! - Feels like a Greek citizen voting for his country's government. It's an insult! If his conscience, his memory, his educational situation, his tradition makes him Greek, you must make it easier for him to vote at all costs, because he has this right. It is, therefore, a pure right, which does not qualify, does not enter in terms, does not enter with cutters, does not come from economic criteria or from any other. It's a matter of conscience to the citizen who feels Greek. Secondly, it is unacceptable constitutionally, democratically, to separate the citizens' single vote on national elections in any way. They are national elections, our government is being voted and every Greek citizen's choice of government is entitled to have an opinion and vote. There are no Greek citizens of two speeds. Thirdly, it is an urgent task for the Greek state to ensure free will and its expression in the elections, without any obstacles relating to distances, with financial suffering, not to leave - let us say - from a state of America, which is far from London from Athens, to go to the nearest consulate to vote or to find a café that is Greek and there is legality, while the dilemma is not supposedly guaranteed, but to remove the obstacles - therefore a letter of vote - which prevent any Greek citizen from voting. And, fourthly, it is a national obligation to decide at last an authentic and inmediate relationship and expression of non-national citizens within the framework of the national Parliament. And we have proposed two, three solutions, which I do not need to repeat. These basic principles can form a modern law and this law we say we are going to introduce, we will bring, knowing that it will not be discussed, obviously, because the political game with the candrilies was exhausted between last year and this year's time and the present day when you played both the Greeks and the Greeks of the Diaspora.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr Scandalides, and in particular because, as always, you always keep the time. And now Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Kamines from the Change Movement. Here, Mr Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question of facilitating the vote of Greeks abroad, the current government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, have raised this as one of the main priorities from the outset. The New Democracy has a clear and clear position in time, has expressed it and much more has struggled to achieve its implementation. We believe that the exercise of this right must be done without restrictions and without discrimination and, in fact, we have said that the most appropriate way to achieve this is to establish the letter of vote, as has been done for years in all democratic and civilised states around the world. Unfortunately, all the Members required by the Constitution - Parliament's 2/3 - did not share this in December 2019 in order to adopt the proposal and make it a law of the state. So, at that time, through dialogue, consultation, but also the retreats, we have reached the first and historic step, namely the vote on the right of Greeks to vote abroad, without having to come to Greece. Like all of us, we first recognised that Law 4648/2019 was the product of a political compromise, a compromise which the government chose with a sense of responsibility to accept in order not to miss the historic opportunity. Those who were in this Chamber will remember something else, that we said that in the course of the year, and once the appropriate opportunity has been given, the New Democracy Government will seek to get back to the issue, so that we can go further, that is to say, to lift the restrictions imposed by the law that we have passed. Therefore, because a lot has been heard today and also at committee meetings, so to clarify things, I too would like to emphasise something that I think has been said to all tons and has been fully clarified, that today's debate is not a pretext, it is not a matter of party controversy, it is not an attempt to create impression. It is a substantive debate, which opened on the occasion of SYRIZA's public position that the restrictions of the law that we voted a year and a half ago are unfair and disgraceful, a position with which - I repeat - New Democracy and Government fully agree. Now, who has allergy or phobia, as Mr Scandalidis said, is seen by who answers the question or who throws the ball in the platform. In fact, Mr Scandalidis also answered about the 2001 issues very well. At the initiative of the Ministry of Interior we are in plenary today on the amendment of the provisions of Law 4648/2019 to remove restrictions on the exercise of the electoral right of Greeks abroad. These are the amendments to Article 2(3), Article 2(4), Article 4(8), and the repeal of paragraphs 2, 6, 7 and 10 of Article 2, as well as the repeal of Article 4(5). If these changes are voted on, all the restrictions, discrimination and obstacles to the electoral right of the Greeks are substantially marginalised. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in less than two years' time the Greek Delegation has been called upon to take a stand against a great question, in fact against a great historical challenge. Unfortunately, however, even on such an important issue, the Civic Opposition chooses to play party games and follow its well-known practice "Others say in, but we say out". Why, as much as seeking pure intentions and political arguments in the SYRIZA position, unfortunately bilingualism does not allow us to recognise them. After SYRIZA spoke of discriminating and unfair discrimination under the law of December and once the government responded to lightning by voting for their abolition, the Responsibility of Responsibility for Responsibility for the Dialogue with a proposal that is supposed to agree that there are no restrictions, but on the other hand, it makes the condition that the voters of the out-of-border elections do not participate in the electoral process. For, ladies and gentlemen, when you say on the one hand that they vote, but on the other hand that they should not count on the overall result, that is what you mean. Your proposal provides for the election of four 'Members of State', as you call them, representing the expatriates, namely 1.2% of Parliament, as the Minister of Home Affairs described to us in the committee, but their vote will not shape the result. That is what you say and you are trying to evade, because what is finally too difficult for you, more than telling the truth, is the composition, is the agreement, even on such major issues, historical issues. You don't care to waste time. You do not care if an issue that seeks application throughout our post-constitutional history is left half and you are proving it by your unconstitutional proposal you are bringing today. We have accepted a compromise so that we can take a big step on the minimum common denominator. But our position is specific. No compromise at the vote rate and we have been clear from the start. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is once again opening up the dialogue and re-examines the possibilities of broad consensus, as required by the Constitution, and seeks the consent of the political forces, expressed from the outset in clear and firm positions. We believe that Greeks abroad are an integral part of Hellenism. They are entitled to vote and to reconcile the election result and to do so without restrictive conditions and discrimination, such as all the citizens of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate in December 2019, I stressed that, after ten years of economic crisis, divided dilemmas and the emergence of the pathogens of the political system, the vote on the granting of the facilities for the vote of the Greeks of the Dispersion was a first-class opportunity for the political staff of the country to prove that they learned from their mistakes and can now recognize when the national interest requires understanding and consent. Today I believe that we have the great opportunity to conclude the first step that has been taken at the time. I invite you, too, to support the proposal of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior and to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr Stamenitis, for keeping time. Mr. George Kaminas has the floor from the Change Movement and then Mr. Christos Bukosos from New Democracy is prepared. It is true that the parliamentary representatives can speak and speak whenever they judge, provided that two - three Members are present. Here you go, Mr. Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the original version of the 1975 Constitution explicitly empowered the joint legislator to define how the election right of foreign voters should be exercised, and twenty-six years later, with the 2001 Review, it was explicitly foreseen that the joint legislature would have the opportunity to introduce the dilemma vote. In short, ladies and gentlemen, until the 2019 Review the Constitution allowed the joint legislature to establish the universal participation of Greeks abroad in the elections, and even from 2001 onwards, by written vote. Why did Mr Scandalidis explain this to us earlier, partly justified for the reasons he has mentioned, but I believe that it is partly and unjustified. However, this inertia was exploited by the 2019 Review, to move in the opposite direction, to a logic of limiting the right, on the basis of a cross-party compromise which was reached at the lowest possible level, in order to achieve the 2/3 majority. In other words, in order to vote for a law which is well below the circumstances, as the New Democracy says today, we have sacrificed the opportunity given to us by the Constitution until then to establish a genuine universal suffrage of foreign voters. Instead, we introduced the restrictions imposed on all of us by the Communist Party. If we think about it, we have legislated backwards, first of all because we have legislated on the basis of the will of a majority, and secondly because we have revised the fundamental law in terms of image and uniformity of a short-term legislation. This is a de facto overthrow of the hierarchy of the rules of law. And as if that were not enough, we also violated the Constitution directly, since we effectively revised the provision of Rule 51(4), although it was not included in the revised provisions, as the previous Parliament had specified. The result of all this is hypocrisy today. Prior to you, you are speaking three times, the government is being persecuted by a statement by a member of the Grand Representation and suggests that all restrictions be abolished, that is, what the position of the Change Movement was at the outset and proposed by our representative at the Intergroup Committee of Costas Scandalidis. This, indeed, is a progressive position on the question of the vote of Greeks abroad and I add two additional reasons. The first is that pandemic acts as an accelerator for rapid changes in the field of work. From now on, people will work from everywhere. The concept of a place of work with its stable and spatial dimension will disappear. In the past pandemic, globalisation has caused the mobility of capital. Now it's the turn of work. In fact, the pandemic accelerated labour mobility, since it had already begun to manifest itself before the emergence of COVID -19. The second reason is national. The economic crisis that broke out in 2010 has so far thrown away seven hundred thousand Greeks from their homeland, mostly young people and young people, at the edge of their creativity. If they cannot return today, we must keep their ties with their country alive, above all, the political bond created by the vote, the most important act with which the individual is transformed into an active citizen. There are no misery and restrictions here, not even in the 20th century, nor in the 19th. I say this because we do not realize, ladies and gentlemen, that under the conditions laid down in Law 4648 we are reproducing in some way restrictions on the electoral right which other countries had introduced in the 19th century in order to limit the political participation of popular masses. We are trying to corner globalisation today in the stricken corset which was sewn in the 19th century into measures of a conservative version of the nation-state's liberal democracy. So we, today, are not enough in the status of a citizen. In addition, we demand that the Greek foreign minister also prove some kind of bond with Greece, a bond that makes him by definition mature - supposedly - to co-decide on the future of the country. This link is documented cumulatively on two conditions. First, with the two-year stay in the last thirty-five years, it is now supposed to prove some familiarity between the Greeks abroad and the domestic reality. Secondly, we call for a tax declaration, namely the existence of an asset or income. Both conditions refer, as I have said, to the conservative versions with which the right to vote was restricted in the 19th century, either by voting on competence, which, in some countries in Europe, only the educated, or by voting in favour of those who owned certain property, were voted on by the so-called 'practical vote'. In many European countries such restrictions have coexisted and combined in a variety of ways, and today we are transferring them to Greece of the 21st century. And we've made a constitutional device for lightning, which makes restrictions. Instead of expressing a generosity in favour of the right, it is a provision that looks at how it will restrict it. Here led us to the opportunism of the New Democracy, the fear of SYRIZA and the left Conservation of the Communist Party, to engrave with ghosts of the past. But then there was at least one real stake. The bourgeoisie in some European countries sought to perpetuate its sovereignty, condemning the people's strata in a bi-monthly immaturity. We today have a more serious argument to exclude from political life the hundreds of thousands of Greek and Greek women, whom the ungodly country has forced them to take the streets of the hostel? The answer is no, none at all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. Mr Boukoros has the floor from New Democracy, and then Mr Yiannis Burnus will be given the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a simple and possibly rhetorical question. Is the concept of Greece or Hellenism wider and more important? I think that everyone in this Chamber agrees that Hellenism is a broader and important concept, because it includes both the Greeks and the Greeks, the Greek Dispersion, the other Greece of about 10 million who lives and grows out of the border. These are important issues which, over the last two years, three years and within the framework of the constitutional review and under Law 4648 and in the context of today's debate, concern us here, in the temple of democracy, in the Greek Parliament. Where everyone on such matters is able to measure themselves and history. Because there was indeed historical importance, both constitutional review and n.4648. The fact that this self-evident change has not been completed, the right that the citizen of all mature democracy and the Greeks abroad has to do with it, is our responsibility. Because we demanded the consensus and reached the consensus at the expense of the functionality of a great law that bears the Hellenism of the Diaspora in the center of this Chamber that we are today, representing the ten million Greeks and failing to represent us or others the rest of the ten million Greeks. That's what this is about. Of course I won't dwell on the revolts of Officer Response. And I'm one of the reasons for the excesses of the opposition parties. But this is an issue that should unite us all and unite us over time and not see it beneficially. To see it today as a government, tomorrow as an opposition to say that restrictions are degrading. And I really admired Mr. Kamine's place before. Mr. Minister of the Greek Prime Minister, Mr. Konstantinos Vlassi, honor us with your presence today and represent us in the Hellenism of the Diaspora. Mr. Kamines said something very important before. We place assets and assets criteria on the Greeks abroad. That is, the immigrant who works in Frankfurt, Germany and has a home in Greece and some income can vote. The other guy who left to look for his luck and works next to him on the Fabrika has no right to vote on the Left, a total on the Left. This separation, this distinction really refers to the beginning of democratic processes, when some people actually had an interest in not having a universal vote. We are talking today about whether our fellow citizens will have the right to vote in letters. Why don't we look at best practices? So many Greek Americans live in our country and vote in the American elections with a letter of vote. Why don't we copy the good stuff in place? Why does our Greek peculiarity always direct us to make wrong choices over time? But why is that refusal from the Officerial Response? I understand the JRC. Rarely in these countries where there are Greek immigrants there is a communist party. So I understand the defense policy. But why SYRIZA? Does he feel that he'll never convince the Greek expatriates? Does he feel that he will never be attractive to the Greek community? Does it feel that innovative voters, who are disconnected from bad internal texts, are voting more objectively? Today Greeks abroad have access to information, perhaps more than Greeks of the interior. They are more objective, disconnected from micro-personal and micro-local interests. They are therefore voters who will judge defensively. Why do we stand up for this wall? Why do you not vote on today's provisions to facilitate more and more participation? Is it in the interests of the Greeks abroad or the Greeks of the interior voting? They seem to be in favour of Greeks abroad, but in fact they are in favour of Greeks of the interior. Because we show the size of our country and our real population, because we have another importance internationally, because anyway, the representatives of Hellenism in science, entrepreneurship, politically, super-channelly and pan-Europeanly represent the country and we all enjoy their success. So why do you deny all this? You've been reconstructed with yourself? Can you measure yourself with history? What are you going to say tomorrow, in these hundred thousand Greek homosexuals, and the letter of protest, the request, the resolution that they signed and demand that the obstacles be removed? How are you gonna apologize? You are voting in the context of a consensus. You come as Opposition to say that you will abolish the restrictions. You are now calling for restrictions to be lifted and for others to be squeezed out. The other Greece, of the ten million out of the border, is looking at us with anguish. I do not want to be touching either to charge the debate, but I would say that it is extremely unfair at the time of teleworking, at the time of digital nomads, to say that the metropolis removes or prevents the Greeks from participating in the country's events. And what are you telling them? Vote and get your own MPs. At this level that SYRIZA says is represented in their communities locally by such a vote to influence only homosexuals. Participate in their homeland, want to rebuild the umbilical cord and, when conditions allow it, to be fully connected and returned. This is what Greeks from abroad, ladies and gentlemen. And I think it is an issue that can unite the political world, not seem retarded. Being mature and ready to face the challenges of the future. And the challenges are not dealt with with with half Greece outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Buquoir. Mr Ioannis Burnus has the floor from SYRIZA. And soon thereafter, the Deputy Minister of the Greek Democratic Republic, Mr Constantine Vlassis, will speak. Mr. Burnus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here because of Mr Voridis' communication fireworks or because of the stubborn refusal of the government to recognise the shipwreck of insidious designs he has made. It is not Parliament's honour, ladies and gentlemen, to take a legislative initiative that you know in advance that it will only fail to deceive the deportees or to score communications points from Mr Vorides at the expense of his predecessor. When you became government, you thought wickedly. You wanted to achieve a permanent change in the political connections in Greece with the vote of the frustrations. Somehow you were convinced or some have convinced you that there is a huge pool of voters outside Greece. You might have been persuaded by the family friend Mr. Diadiaris, who made him a minister as soon as you got out. However, that was the design. And some probably believed that by means of external mechanisms we would mobilize our conservative compatriots to vote for your party, even people without Greek citizenship or a special relationship with Greece, who, after your actions, would be naturalized to support your party. You had considered the big trick that, even when the world decided in Greece to ignore the propaganda of the canals and to turn against you, the Greeks abroad would continue to support you because you would manage to sell them the same patriod row that you wanted from the domestic product to make it exportable. You wanted to poison the demigrant Greeks with the same networks of mediatic intertwining and demolition of consciences that you have mastered in Greece. Of course you found a wall. However, that was the intention. And it is to wonder with your predicament and the devaluation of the Greeks abroad, which you believe them to be a given voter of the New Democracy. What exactly do you think, that only your voters emigrated? Wasn't immigration a universal phenomenon of all Greek society, and especially of the countryside? Didn't Greeks emigrate from progressive or left families? Did not our progressive compatriots and a few more motives even have to emigrate, since they were sometimes characterized and sometimes excluded from the post-North Right client networks and had no destiny in the sun at the place where they were born? Was the mass migration of the post-war decades not exactly the result of the misguided policy of your own ideological political space? The Right was not chasing them with poverty policies, with the abandonment of the countryside, the crackdown of the Marshall Plan, with the established wages of the "three and sixty", with the internal political and spiritual oppression of the villagekeeper and the right-wing party in the Greek province? And how do you forget that if there is a body of voters holding more ties with the country and watching more political developments are just those young people who have left in the crisis, persecuted by your memorials, often and disgusted by your policies, by corruption, the suffocating anxieties that only preysupposes your own, the suppression of all creativity and any modernisation, so that the reactionary part of your voters is not saddled? In any case, we came to the debate in 2019 with the position for votes of the deceased with their own representatives, with a closed representation system, with a single vote in foreign regions, which would keep the demigrant Greeks outside the domestic party confrontation, as the Council of Disciplinary Hellenism called for in 2017, or as Mr. Gerapetritis proposed in the report of the National Committee on Human Rights. We weren't looking for backup party tanks, like you did. Your initial aim, now that you can't bring the gold-paid charters with your voters, was to build foreign reserve, Mitsotakis reserve. We would be the only country with a great dispersal that we would not follow either of the two systems of vote for dematerialisation, namely the criteria for real ties or closed representation. Because you really didn't want the people to have a voice. You wanted only a party, your party preferably, without a real representative. We all agreed at that time to an unprecedented parliamentary majority and accepted specific criteria proposed by the Communist Party of Greece, which act as a safety net so that the will of the electorate does not go beyond what has been done in the country, such as the United Kingdom and Germany. You also voted for a constitutional change. Now you come with a demagogic firework to get your signature back from what you called "historical success" then and above all you do without even applying the law. Why is there no meeting of the Intergroup on Control of the Registration Procedure? That's how interested you were in voting for the frustrations? Interesting party ruler, who loses interest when the beans are little. The point is, once again, you're mocking the emigrants. You believe that everything is soaring in communication, pandemics, vaccines, natural disasters, and even the vote of the frustrations. And now that you fail to implement the law, now that your subtle designs have been sanctified, and just because you are dealing from non paper to non paper, you are trying to escape the expectations you have cultivated. And you do it the way you know, by the patriotism of the patriots.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr Burnus, for keeping time. Mr Constantine Vlassis has the floor now. And immediately thereafter I will give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Villardos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's plenary session of the Greek Parliament is a meeting I dare say historically and as such I invite you all to deal with it, because its outcome can be a milestone for the country's parliamentary life and for our own democracy. The current legislative initiative of the Government and of the Ministry of Interior, the draft law entitled "Arguing restrictions on the inclusion in the special electoral lists of foreign voters" consists in the substance of a single article, but it is also the tangible proof that only one decision, only one initiative, only one article, is sufficient to make a difference. But what are we proposing today? In my conscience, but also in the conscience of many compatriots, we propose the self-evident, that is to say a Greek who lives abroad, a fellow citizen who has the right to vote and who is registered on the electoral lists of our country to vote in elections from his residence. The first move to facilitate the exercise of the electoral right of Greeks abroad was made by our Government about a year and a half ago. Our aim was, then, for Greeks abroad to vote without restrictions on elections from their home country. However, as much as we tried to secure the necessary consensus in December 2019, a consensus that would lead to the vote in favour of our proposal, unfortunately, did not succeed. The resistance of a number of parties did not bent, however much as what we suggested was reasonable and fair. So we proceeded with the necessary compromises, so that we could reach agreement and even take a first step, which is not inconsistent. The historic majority of eighty-eight votes in December 2019, I confess, was a milestone, ladies and gentlemen, for the country's parliamentary data. But for our Government, however important it was, this law has not ceased to be a first step, a basis for further facilitation in the vote of Greeks abroad and not a final settlement, as many of you believed. After all, you can look at the statements, both my own and the government's assemble, which we have always stressed, that we will continue to promote the abolition of the restrictions on the vote. And that, when the conditions allowed it and of course the necessary fermentation which would lead to the necessary consensus has been done. Our firm position to remove the restrictions came to strengthen the individual and collective reactions of the Greeks abroad, who once again felt unfair and disfellowshipped from the mother country. I would remind you of what was said just last week at the hearing of bodies, when the associations discussed this complaint, because we do not give them the right to vote in the place where they live. Their request, no one disputes it, was universal. Only for our Government, ladies and gentlemen, but also for me personally, who have been in constant and daily contact with the Greeks throughout the world, the grievances of the unscrupulous Greeks have not been a simple nuisance, as you may say, but they have been a burden in my conscience, as I would wish they were a burden in your own conscience. Let me remind you that strengthening the bond between Greeks abroad and the mother of our country was one of our first commitments and our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, since the country was already governed. That is why I, too, have not stopped struggling not with words but with actions. A quick look - and that will be confirmed by all Greeks abroad - in the digital transformation that we are promoting in the services of our authorities abroad is, I think, enough to convince the most skeptical. So today we are bringing to the Greek Parliament a proposal which does nothing more and nothing less than abolishing these restrictions, a proposal which, despite what some have insisted on falsely dispersing, neither extends the electoral basis nor gives the right to vote to citizens who have so far not had any voting rights. We do nothing less than make it easier for a person who can take the plane and come to vote here, in Greece, in the national elections to do so from his home place, without investing time and money to exercise a constitutionally occupied right. We are doing nothing more than what all the advanced countries have done over the past few years. I want to be clear. We do not do this because of anyone, nor do we move on the basis of small- and medium-sized interests. This arrangement is not aimed at terminating any party audience. This proposal does not wear party colors, once the colors of the National Greece. To facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad is an act of justice and equality, but it is also an act of genuine recognition of their enormous offer at home. As State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, with responsibility for the Greeks of the Diaspora, I know firsthand the role that Greece plays in our minds and hearts. I have experienced the closest, and I think many have experienced this, their unselfish feelings for the scrolling earth, and I have witnessed their supply. It is the least ironic on the one hand to recognise to Greeks the great capital that is for our country and, on the other, to deny them self-evidently, to be able to participate in the elections without suffering, without hard work, without cost. The Government of New Democracy wants all Greek, ladies and gentlemen, near home. He wants the Greeks of the outside shareholders in the life of our place. Not gratifying, but because we firmly believe that with their experience, performances, qualifications and undoubted love for the country they can contribute substantially to the realization of our vision to lead Greece into a future more brilliant. I'm not going to enter micro-party classifications, referring to the placement of the relevant Division Administrator, Mr. Jack. I am not standing here today in a spirit of dissatisfaction or re-changing. I stand before you with a spirit of unitedness, with a spirit of understanding and, above all, with a spirit of recognition and love for the other Greeks. These people did not leave home because they refused, as many might whisper. They left to look for a better future, a better tomorrow, and basically they never left, because Greece is always in their minds, hearts and life. This is evidenced by the tens, hundreds of thousands of signatures that within just a few days gathered by Greeks abroad, asking for them to be able to participate in the election process without restrictions. This is also demonstrated by letters from the Greek communities, the members of the family, calling for a lasting and just demand for many decades to be met. But it is also demonstrated by the positions of our eminent fellow citizens abroad. As for the proposal from the Officerate-General, which proposes four seats geographically distributed and indeed on a single list, I really have nothing to say. Evidently they consider Greek citizens abroad, the migrant Greeks, as second-class citizens, since they propose that they should not be counted and should be on the basis of three hundred times less important than the vote of Greeks residing in the mother country. But what you must answer to us, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is exactly what you are afraid of. What is the point of facilitating the vote of Greeks abroad? You blame us for party feasibility when you are the ones who resist on the basis of their party interests. Apparently you're afraid of the verdict of the poll. How else can one explain the fact that you are opposed to Greek foreigners voting in their homes, who are, anyway, entitled to it? Obviously your sensitivity to them is exhausted in empty promises, theoretical positions. That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to act on the basis of logic, but also sensitivity, and to support the government's proposal to remove these unfair restrictions. Historically it has been proved that this place goes forward when symptoms and harmony prevail. The successful national effort to deal with pandemic is the most recent example of what we can achieve when we are in harmony. Let us show it today to all Greeks abroad, satisfying their rightful request. Let us prove to them in practice that something is changing in our homeland, that we have finally left behind what has troubled us over the last decade and that we are all moving forward towards a more secure, safer and safer future. Let each of us individually take responsibility today for its vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too, Minister. Now Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor, then Mrs. Kefala and then Mr. Delis. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, we since the establishment of the Greek Solution, even before we entered the House, were clearly in favour of the vote of the Greeks abroad without any restriction, having devoted a whole chapter to our five hundred-page programme on this very matter. We also supported the draft law to grant the right in 2019, assuming that it was a vindication of the Greeks abroad, who have been seeking it for too many years. Unfortunately, however, we have been disappointed by the restrictions put forward, as almost all of our relatives have been disappointed, obviously for voters in some way on the part of certain parties. We hope, however, that maturity will prevail today and that the mistakes of the past, even to some extent, will be rectified by failing to believe that there will be parties who will not vote for it simply because they fear that their electoral power will be reduced. It is not possible to sacrifice everything on the altar of power, let alone our compatriots abroad. We are not only in favour of the vote on the results, but we also want to shape the conditions of return as much as possible. After all, our goal is to deliver Greece to our children better than that given to us by our parents, in no case is an impoverished debt colony, in which the change of ownership regime is under way by a government, unfortunately, of the Germans. In this regard, what we are concerned with is the formation of an economy that will facilitate the return of Greeks abroad, an economy that does not serve the interests of the domestic and foreign oligarchy, with huge non-viable debts, which act as a lever for the acceleration of the extremism of our country, with debts for which the ordinary citizens are not responsible, but our bare political system, which is ultimately the only one that survived the crisis, even if some parties were forced to change name and VAT, in order to achieve it. It is, unfortunately, this political system - combined with our wrong economic and tourism model - which forced six hundred and fifty thousand Greeks to leave their homeland during the crisis, so they can survive. They took 32.5 billion annual GDP with them, which we will not make up for if they do not come back, while they have dominated their host countries with at least 100 billion euros costing our country's upbringing and education. Eighteen thousand doctors only left Greece, as we will testify in the Minutes - all together later - along with the incredible statement by the Prime Minister, according to which we cannot fill doctors, nurses and anaesthetics, telling him that a country that cannot give work to its children and cannot give birth, of course it is not a country. As for the Minister of Development, which has recently been put back in favour of the memorials and the PSI, we remind him of his statements from the past, in which the Troika did not want to take his glory away from him. We hope that the Greeks have understood their "quality" - in introductory terms, of course - as there is obviously no human on the planet who believes in something similar after the substantiated destruction suffered by Greece by the memoranda and by the PSI. It cannot be understood that it is unreasonable to mortgage a country and to unleash it simply in exchange for the EUR 51.3 billion that has been bored with the PSI debt, so that it will immediately increase with the more than EUR 40 billion that the banks have cost, without even mentioning the damage to the insurance funds, public funds and micronomists. No one can be stupid enough to think that all this was normal. Especially with regard to the banks, their collapse continues, as was seen on Friday, and it seems that we are still at risk of EUR 24 billion, due to the state guarantees for the 'HRAKLIS' programmes, just as we had anticipated and said from the outset. This is EUR 24 billion to be reintroduced into our public debt, increasing it by more than EUR 400 billion! At the same time, the auctions of everything, without any exceptions at all, are being launched on 1 June, not even for vulnerable groups of our population. How is it possible, really, to allow banks to suck off Greeks so many years? Under these conditions, having learned to be constantly rescued by the citizens while taking their homes, why should they lend the real economy? According to a survey by the University of Brunell of London on the recent Brain Drain, which we will be tabling later in the Minutes, the Greeks' fleeing was at the same time a form of protest against the chronic dysfunctions of Greek society, which deteriorated during the recession, as reflected in the collapsed socio-political institutions, as well as in the injustice that prevailed in the social and professional context. What, really, has changed since then on this particular subject, which is certainly not as difficult to resolve as all the rest? Absolutely nothing. The Prime Minister has even come to suggest that young people should leave to find work abroad! Is that true his role? Isn't the main responsibility of each government to secure jobs for its own citizens? Has it not promised before the elections six hundred thousand new jobs, of which two hundred forty thousand from the Infrastructure Programme and eighty thousand from the Greek, as we will present in the Minutes? Especially with regard to the latter, however, the 'LAMDA DEVELOPMENT', without even paying a euro to the state - has not given a single euro - has increased its financial strength because of the Greek EUR 2.5 billion. We would remind you that the acquisition will take place through a company in Luxembourg with just EUR 36 000. Why from Luxembourg? Apparently, to pay far fewer taxes. It's a tax haven known to all of us. And, according to the Minister of Development - in our question last week - has not yet given an advance of EUR 315,000,000, which was registered in the 2020 budget and then in the first quarter of 2021. In Greece alone, governments are prey to the oligarchy, which earns huge sums of money without putting a single euro on its own, and of course they do not respect it at all - nobody respects anyone who deserves it - as, after all, is seen by the recent misrepresentation of the Greek-speaking shipowner Laskaridis. We all heard about it. Continuing, the restrictions adopted for the vote of the Greeks abroad on the ten-year absence and the LNG, which are being abolished, do not appear to apply in many countries, except the United Kingdom, which has as its limit the 15-year period, but is already discussing its removal. We are referring to the United Kingdom, because its parliamentary history is important, and it has a similar spread abroad with our own. The United Kingdom has a dispersal of 6.8% - we will testify for the Practicals of "STATISTA", which is fully valid, with 2014 figures, while Greece has 6.6%. These are the real numbers, not what we have here. In this regard, the number of British foreigners voting over time was very low at about thirty - five thousand. Before Brexit, however, the number of registered was increased to sixty-four thousand, while in the 2017 elections there were two hundred and eighty-five thousand, as much as 20% of those entitled to the 15-year limit. This is what we would expect in Greece. Then the figure fell, to reincrease in the 2019 critical elections, while all of this was due to the political parties' voting campaigns, according to information we will be tabling on the Minutes. In relation to Greece now, in the 2014 European elections they voted only ten thousand ninety-six Greeks and eleven thousand seven hundred ninety-two in 2019 - we will submit the relevant document in the Minutes - with New Democracy having more than twice as many percentages as SYRIZA. But is that a reason to stand against SYRIZA? Wouldn't that be a cheap micropolicy? On the basis of the above, however, although we are very saddened, there is not much involvement of the results, so in fact the election result will not be affected and there is no reason to vote against the draft law by any party or, of course, by the JRC, whose excuses have not convinced anyone. At least I don't. Furthermore, what is more important is representation, since participation will also be increased through it. First of all, the re-establishment of the CSCE by Laws Nos 4781/2021 and by Articles 452 to 457, which, however, was a hurry, hoping not to pretext. However, the dissolution of the CSCE was very badly affected by our family. We have personal experiences of this. So, in order not to repeat the same mistakes, the OSCE should be properly organised so that it does not evolve into a customary instrument or a vehicle for serving personal, local ambitions, how much more vain or party purposes, if we are referring to, if any, also to peers with voting rights. In particular, we should raise the CSR to an essential body for supporting our country's policy in various ways, which should be carefully analysed. In any case, the dissidents can offer a lot of money to Greece, as long as we treat them properly, such as exports, trade in general, in promoting our tourism and agricultural products, in supporting our national issues, as well as in many other areas. In conclusion, the Greek Solution is in favour of the vote of the Greeks abroad without any restriction, as well as of the letter of vote, hoping that all the parties in this House will be placed accordingly, substantiating that we can reach agreement among ourselves on matters of national importance at least. However, our main objective remains the return of the Greeks from abroad, without which Greece will be very difficult to escape from the trap that has been led by its governments. That is why we constantly emphasise that we want four years to govern - four years! -, knowing that Greece is a rich, multiplely gifted country, while Greeks can actually achieve miracles if they at some point trust the state and their government. They have no confidence, and rightly so, since no government has been interested in them until now, except in the prestige of power without, in fact, any sign of shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mrs Maria Head of New Democracy now has the floor, and then Mr Yiannis Delis from the Communist Party. After Mr Delis, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Ploris, will speak. Here, Mrs. Head, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the heart of Greece is beating on all five continents. In every corner of the planet we meet Greeks who show the power that the Greek soul hides in all the inhabited earth. It is a Greece that lives, which fights, which magnifies and pervades beyond the narrowly defined geographical boundaries of the Greek state. This dynamic and protracted Hellenism that spreads to the ends of the earth is an integral part and extension of Greek Hellenism. The dispersion, its stay and its prose to all corners of the world are those which give an universal dimension to our nation. Our compatriots have an opinion, they have reason, they have knowledge, and above all they have the sacred right to choose the representatives of the nation and to determine, by means of their vote, what is alleged in the mother country. Besides, technology, more than ever, allows them to have a clear picture of what happens daily in our country. It is true that issues have been raised in the name of consensus in the law that we voted in 2019, and that an important part of potential voters, in fact, has a direct bearing on Greece, are excluded. Even those who wanted to get in the process should have gone through forty waves until they managed to vote. However, then legislation was necessary in order to achieve the two hundred, required, in the Constitution, by votes. In 2019, the first step was taken. It is now time to complete what we owe our fellow citizens. However, against this permanent and time-consuming request from our relatives, SYRIZA follows his own constant tactics: he is being and behaves. Your rapporteur blurs the waters. He's trying to slip out of the difficult position that Mrs. Jackson put him into, and the self-evident ones that the Minister of the Interior puts him, Mr. Vorides. I mention a characteristic excerpt, self-explanation, of the interview by the Deputy Head of Foreign Affairs, responsible for issues from the Plenipotentiary Hellenism of SYRIZA at the "National Preach" on April 9th. "We are the ones who demanded that all the Greeks of the Diaspora vote. Not only will we give the battle to lift restrictions, but we will abolish them as soon as we return to the country's governance. They are unfair, disgraceful, I have no words to describe them." That's exactly what Mrs. Jackie said. Now what? You are seeking research clarity on the obvious and simple, to escape another deadlock in which you have come. And it's not that you're lying or you don't know what you're saying. You know very well what you're saying. Except every day you say something else. And this is called 'political coexistence'. Relive your political nightmare 2019, with full political isolation and complete discomfort with society once again. We are in front of a theater of irrationality, an absurdity that is perceived by all Greeks and all Greek women, because you must explain to us how it is possible for a Greek who comes by plane to vote to have full political rights, without any condition, and now that he is given the opportunity to vote from his home, you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, require a number of conditions to actually be discouraged from participating. If you are measured quantitatively, you will find less of your views and if you are measured qualitatively, below your role. As much as I try to explain this attitude to you with political characteristics, I conclude that this is being expelled from fear of the result of the vote of the deported and the apparent political failure, not to say collapse. Ladies and gentlemen, universal Hellenism is a national chapter. For long periods of time, the diaspora had a wide participation in the economic, social, cultural and political development of the entire Greek world. Initiatives, policies, social, cultural, have contributed decisively and continue to contribute through their role and their existence, which was even being upgraded during the periods of the national crises of Hellenism. The existence, therefore, of a human potential which is conscious of its national origin and of its ancestral historical heritage gains particular weight for a small people such as the Greek, who had to bear the burden of frequent and difficult situations. In fact, when this human potential is involved in collective initiatives of national solidarity, its role becomes even more important. It is true that the Greeks of the diaspora feel at least as much Greek as we, who live within the walls. They are our best ambassadors to the places where everyone lives. Greece is becoming a secondary assumption when it comes to Hellenism. The phrase of our Nobelist poet and diplomat George Seferis sums up in the simplest, donational and parallel eloquent way the cowardice and power of the Diaspora Hellenism. So the moment has come when we have to see the reality in the face and by applying the provisions of the Constitution to facilitate our compatriots Greeks who live abroad to exercise their right to vote in an unpredictable, unconditional and unconditional manner from their residence. What you see as a firework by the Minister of the Interior for the vote of the offenders is really another radius of light, which shows how deeply nighttime you are. At some point hypocrisy masks are falling, and the moment has arrived. Our relatives, more clearly than ever, see and hear what is happening exactly. And logically, they have a crisis and they are fully aware of who is mocking them and who is not. I call on you, even now, to unite our voices and, through the strength which our vote gives us to listen to the voices of our relatives, who are unanimously calling on us to submit their request to remove exclusions in the exercise of their electoral right from their residence. To listen to Costas from Germany, Vassilis from Australia, Christos from Cyprus, Dimitris from Belgium, one of one thousand of our compatriots who signed the resolution - a request for the right to exercise one of the most basic constitutional rights, to elect and vote. In conclusion, I just want to say a phrase about the leadership of the Ministry of Interior. When political sensation meets political will, the power of determination and the faith of correctness, the result is beyond positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative will be followed by Mr Ploris. Here you go, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Listening just now to the Deputy Greek Prime Minister, I was confused. The law that the New Democracy is now attempting to abolish called it, described it as a "mountain" today. A few days earlier the same law the Minister described him as "persistence". Finally, decide what it is. Perseverance or landmark? Is it an obsessive landmark? We're really lifting our hands up. In any case, two are the government's arguments to change - and even before it applies - its own law on the vote of Greeks abroad, adopted in December 2019. First argument. It does not represent it, it says, and it is also contrary to the criteria laid down by the law in force. She even claims that this opposition has been made to her since the beginning. But here, you know, a reasonable question arises for the government majority. If that is the case, if the New Democracy has always had such a vertical contrast with these criteria, then why did it legislate them? Why did he vote for them? I know that when you have a radical disagreement with something, when something runs counter to your principles, that's why you don't vote for it, unless you're opportune, opportune, tactical. Second government argument. This supports the members of the family who were asked to place themselves in committee the day before yesterday. "Didn't you hear them?" he says. ‘They shall request the abolition of all conditions to facilitate the vote of the expatriates in the Greek elections.’. Excuse me, did you hear the opinion of these bodies for the first time in the day before yesterday? Didn't they exactly tell you in December 2019 when the law was passed? Then why did you get past them and now you're invoking them? The answer is not at all difficult: In order to relaunch the issue of the vote of the Greeks abroad, which has even recently been legislated and almost unanimously, the only reasonable explanation is that your motives are micro-political and self-evident. So, on the one hand, this issue is attempting to be exploited by the government as a diversion from the harsh reality that our people live for and on which the government bears heavy responsibilities and on the other hand, on the issue of the vote on the revenues, is a time-consuming field of uncovered vote in the field of democratic Hellenism. At the same time, however, all the hypocrisy of the parties that have been ruling the country is evident. Why did neither New Democracy nor PASOK not even deal with the matter until 2001? Until then that was enough by a law with a simple majority, which had the above. But after 2001, when the constitutional provision of the two hundred votes came in, the New Democracy along with the PASOK, as we know, was far beyond this number of MPs by 2012, that is, for eleven years. Still, they never did. What's New Democracy talking about? What about this KINAL - PASOK? Unless KINAL thinks it's virginity. However, it is opportune that SYRIZA is also voting on this issue. Why, you know, when the SYRIZA department responsible for the emigrants with an interview in the largest newspaper describes the criteria set by the law - which he and SYRIZA have voted for - not as excessively, not as strictly merely, but much more, much worse, as unfair, degrading and which - will be abolished by SYRIZA once it becomes government, excuse me, then what is it? Lucky? Does SYRIZA or not open up the question of changing recent law? Does it or does it not give the government to play its political games? And we have all seen the speedy reflexes of the Interior Minister, taking this opportunity of SYRIZA and submitting within hours a bill which essentially provides for the abolition of the law passed by two hundred eighteen - please - MPs a year and a half ago. But reflexively, Minister, where we do not see them available or show them in the case of the injustice suffered by thousands of young teachers, who are deprived of the right to work, you know what? For a simple paradox of three euros and without - in most cases - to blame themselves for this. A question now to SYRIZA. If, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you consider this law's criteria for voting so unfairly, so disgracefully, then why did you vote for them? Why didn't you vote against it? Why didn't you report them a year and a half ago? Now do you understand? However, because - you know - in this flattery contest to the remote Greeks, to which all of you have served, there are many inaccuracies and exaggerations, it is important to recall that the law passed 16, 17 months ago by a huge majority does not provide - and it could not provide - for the right to vote. This right arises from the Constitution. What this law provides for is the establishment of criteria for establishing specific electoral lists of Greeks abroad, in order to make it easier for these people to vote in Greek elections from their home place. And instead of ensuring, as it is bound to do, the implementation of this law by the establishment, the activation of the committees required, by speeding up the relevant procedures under the law, what does it do? The very opposite: with SYRIZA's support, it challenges and undermines the law that it itself has brought and voted and which has not yet been implemented. But why did these criteria proposed by the JRC come in? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little more time, Mr. President. But, in order to prevent the electorate from being altered by foreign voters who are entitled to vote on the basis of anachronistic blood law, namely the acquisition of Greek citizenship, but do not have the knowledge of the Greek political reality or have real and substantial ties with the country, so that they themselves can have the consequences of any political choices. Suffice it - it says - to feel their Greek origin! That's what Mr. Scandalides said. It's a matter of psychological, not political, social. In this category, of course, they belong to those who have a distant Greek ancestor, such as third-generation immigrants, who live in another social and political reality and who - you know - never came to Greece. In order to understand the extent to which this logic can lead, it could, invoking any Greek origin, take the Greek nationality and therefore also the right to vote in the Greek elections until the late Prince Philip of England. So no one is removed from the law in force - nor could it - the right to vote. On the contrary, it is facilitated for those who live abroad and maintain substantial ties to the reality of the country and possibly many of them - most of them - to keep alive and the hope of their return. And these are those who because of the parties that have ruled have been hosted, especially in the years of crisis and backwards, either to work or to study, and are troubled, pull the turmoil in Greek consulates and seek miles away to find a Greek school for their children, to learn the Greek language. A school went there in Munich and finally managed the Greek state and lost it! One after the other closes the Greek language departments in Berlin and you come here and sell "tsai and sympathy" to the emigrant Greeks abroad! So let all of you say, "I said, "I said, " put the digital technology in which you are so sworn and apply the law, this law that you passed and you will facilitate all these people in the hostel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u44	Finish, Mr. Delis, please. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u46	Be well! Thank you, too. Mr Ploris, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing a management issue today. Today the subject - which is finally being managed - begins as a deep ideological one. And it's how we understand our presence here and who we think we're representing. According to Article 51 of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, we are representatives of the Greek nation. The editorial legislator has chosen that we here do not come to represent masses and mobs, but that we represent the nation. And you may want to deprive the citizen of the right to Greek proofs, but you cannot deny them the right to be part of what we call "Greek nation" and so much annoying the Left every time he hears it. In fact, whatever arguments you come here to place on either side of the Communist Party of Greece - which are clearer - or on the side of SYRIZA, you would conclude that you are disturbed that all these people are on the electoral lists. Because if you want to be consistent with your arguments - which say how they will define people who are years out and do not live in Greece the election result - then be consistent with what you say. Why do you know what's going on? That we would like - that is what you say - not to be on the electoral lists. Because when two people sit in Astoria next door, one who takes the plane and comes to vote will be able to vote and the other will be on special lists and will not count his vote on the electorate. If your argument is that they should not affect the election result, say it clearly: Disorder on electoral lists. You come here and you're talking about anachronistic blood law. Do you know that all of you here and we are citizens because of blood law and there is no country on the planet that does not have the right to blood? The law of blood exists everywhere. When a person is a citizen in a country, the child who will give birth to blood - that is the right of blood - takes the status of a citizen. Everywhere in the world, there's even in America. At the same time, there are other possibilities. What are the possibilities? I am not saying 'the only thing', I will come to tell you 'the only thing'. It's the possibility of naturalization. But they too, which will be naturalized by procedures that exist - and there are in Greek law - their children, again, with the right of blood, will take citizenship. And those who have been naturalized take the opportunity to be Greek citizens and their children will take their status as a citizen not with the naturalisation that their parents had taken, with the right of blood. This is our Constitution, this is the Code of Citizenship. Once they are Greek citizens, they have the right to register on the electoral lists. Do you disagree with that? Do you want the Greeks' children in Australia, America, Germany to be unable to have the Greek citizen's right? Because if you believe that they affect the election result, while they do not live in Greece, it is like saying to them "you don't have the right to be Greek citizens". When you come here and say "I want to have contagion to the other" - why? -'so that it cannot affect me', when SYRIZA comes in and says 'I want to have regions that will vote, people, but that result will not be measured', do you not differentiate them as citizens? Aren't you actually saying that they are Greek citizens? They are, therefore, Greek citizens and you cannot deprive them of that. And when we say they are Greek citizens, they have the right to vote and stand for election. All they need to do is go join the electoral lists. So all your arguments, which you come and say "it bothers me to influence the electorate by people who do not live here or do not live here" because you do not respond to the core of your problem, according to you. What's the core? That they have the right to vote and stand for election anyway. So, with your argument that "I will simply trouble them not to vote in their country" in essence, without you knowing, you put yourself a class mark. You separate the receipts from those who have the ability to pay a flight ticket and come on the day of the election and those who do not have that opportunity. You separate the figures from those who might be working that weekend and want to come to vote, but they cannot, with others, see that they can do a week of holiday in Greece as well. And you finally come and tell the evidence they hear from us: "We are proud of you, go outside, make statements that the restrictions will be lifted, watch you lift the Greek flag, watch you claim the demands of the Greek nation, which are part of the struggles that this world has here, defend us where you are, but you, have no right to vote. And because I cannot deprive you of that right, I will come and smash you." So, what are the impurities you put? You put pretexts on a piece of time that has been removed, and what relationship is there, and you put these pretexts into the concession made by the New Democracy, precisely because there is a need for the two-member parliamentarians, in fact there is also an economic relationship. So, what do you say to these people now? "Write on the electoral lists, if you can come, come here to vote, if you cannot come, there will be special electoral lists that you will vote on for MPs," this is the proposal of SYRIZA, four MPs, "and their result will have no role in the electoral process." And because Mr Katrugalos is a constitutionalist and very much here he referred to the part of the regions - which Mr Venizelos said and whether or not there is or is not unconstitutional - I try to understand who will not answer me to the simple question: Two people with the same features, who live in Munich, Germany, who left Greece on the same day, are brothers and sisters from the same parents, went to Munich, have the same conditions in the country, one chooses on the day that we will have the elections to take the plane and come to vote and will normally vote on from the place where he left, will vote on the MPs who will vote on the electorate and the other, on the same terms as they will not take the plane to travel and come to the country, will vote on a special list to vote for Members who are peripheral and will not vote on the vote. Do you need to be constitutionalists to understand that these two people, who are Greek citizens, with exactly the same features, who have been born by the same mother, the same father, who have the same absence abroad, who have common things all along, that the vote of one MP in the region - elected and counted on the electorate - and the vote of the other is not counted on the electorate and takes off from another list of MPs? How is this considered to be about equality of vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Colleague, if you'll excuse me, you voted for the provision of 54...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u49	Of course I voted for it. This is about the electoral right. Nothing says to the particular person you say that the vote is not counted. And as you know much better than I do, Mr Katrugale, can't the provisions of the Constitution be contradictory and interpreted. There is therefore a specific provision on what vote is and that no one can impose restrictions on the right to vote and stand for election - Article 51(3) - and I am referring to the other, which can introduce restrictions on implementation. But as far as the power of vote is concerned, restrictions cannot be introduced. You cannot say that the vote of a citizen with the same characteristics as the other may be counted on the electorate and the other citizen is not counted. Obviously the regional issues are another debate, but as regards counting on the final result, in the electorate, I am sorry, it is the essence of democracy. Could you say that there are Greek citizens anywhere in the world who will vote, but that vote will not make governments, that their vote will take four Members and will not make a government? What electoral procedure is that you imagine? Watch what I'm saying to you, to understand the antagonism of your thinking. I took you two brothers, who left the same day, who are in the same place, who have the same assets in Greece from fifty-five and one enters a special list and counts otherwise his vote and the other one comes and takes the plane and can vote. So your problem is ideological, and we are finally telling our ideological disagreement, we are going to serve them. You don't want these people to vote at all. That's the truth. You don't want these people to have a say about what's going on in our country. Why do you consider them something foreign - you say it yourself - because you do not understand that these people are part of the Greek nation and as part of the Greek nation and Greek citizens to the extent that they want it and want it to have the right to citizenship and having citizenship can be registered on the electoral lists and if they are registered on the electoral lists wherever they are on the planet, they can come to vote. We come and say only one thing: You, who have all these rights, which thankfully cannot be deprived of by SYRIZA, can not be deprived of by the JRC - and you cannot be deprived of the opportunity to become Greek citizens and to be registered on the electoral lists, because that is what you want at your base - we will make it easier for you. So you, your ideological problem, that you do not want them to be at all citizens and that they do not want to vote and cannot influence the election result, because it would be unconstitutional to put it, you are transferring it to the management level. You say: “Yes, I do not want them to vote. I do not want the Greeks to vote and influence the election results, so I will put them impermeable, troubled, unable to come, spend money coming." And eventually those who will, they will vote properly and you will leave all the other people out. With these thoughts, Minister, the initiative you have taken was very important and it is important because the New Democracy Government first on Costas Karamanlis brought this to the point at the time. Unfortunately, PASOK did not vote for it. The procedure would have been over. It is a historical responsibility of PASOK at that time, which was up - down and in the positions expressed by PASOK, as the debate had opened at that time. Convergence was very close. It is important that the current government that managed to have a law, even problematic, and it is important that we come here and appeal to the Greek sources and tell them: "Yes, for us, Greeks from the Republic, you are part of the Greek nation. We here represent the Greek nation and we as New Democracy want you to be able to exercise your right as part of the Greek nation and as Greek citizens from wherever you are." We will not stop, despite the shorts, until the last minute, to convince this Parliament that this is the only solution for these fellow citizens to be equal, the Greeks wherever they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. I will now give the floor to Mr. Nicholas Andreas from New Democracy, then to Mrs. Harula Kafantaris from SYRIZA, and immediately to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government is bringing to the vote today another important bill, a bill of top national importance, a bill for all Greeks, in every country. In addition to the importance of this bill, however, and before I refer to it, another serious issue arises through the present process, which is about the credibility of the political system. Because it is well known and it seems from concrete measurements that there is a general debate among citizens, especially young people, about politicians and politics in general, and that is what we all have to safeguard. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we must all be consistent with what we say publicly to the citizens. Just yesterday, the Chief of Police Response, Mr. Tsipras, visited my constituency, Ilias Prefecture, and spoke about Patras - Tower street. He was the one who canceled the tender in 2015, broke the work into eight pieces, gave the four of them to the company "TOXOTIS", in the interests of Mr. Kalogritsa, and that was in 2016, at the same time as the competition for television licenses was being conducted. And finally, since the plans for the creation of "SYRIZA Channel" sanctified, the execution of four parts by Mr. Kalogritsa was sanctified. And after he let it spend four years of inertia, a few months before the election, he showed bulldozers for a while in a part of the project or to take a commemorative picture of local executives. And this visit by the Chief of Staff Response took place at a time when the pre-review committee's investigation is under way and daily comes to the light of publicity data on the relationship between Mr. Kalogrisa and the SYRIZA - ANEL government and their buttons with its officials. After all, before Mr. Kalogritsa had come to Elia to talk about Patras - Tower Mr. Papapas. The only one who hasn't come yet is Mr. Spirtzis, but it looks like we'll see that soon. In addition, Mr. Tsipras spoke to Elia about university departments and visited the Department of Music at the Tower. But what had he done all these years of his administration to strengthen the university department of the Tower? Not only did he, but with the famous Gabroglou law he stripped the department, leaving it with only a cognitive object that exists anywhere else in Europe, gave teachers the right to leave, thus leaving six and only two teachers, one of whom retired in the next period. At least, Mr. Tsipras did not visit the Department of Agriculture of Amaliad, where he should explain why he created within the University of Patras - in Mesolonghi - another corresponding section, so that today the University of Patras claims that it cannot maintain two sections and so decide to merge them. But he promised yesterday that once it became a government will reopen these sections and one more. Apparently, he's gonna do this with a law and an article. Ladies and gentlemen, after all that I have mentioned and many others that are already well known, and like those of last week, which SYRIZA asked for a roll-call vote and then left, or the famous sketch of the memorials, it is not particularly surprising that SYRIZA's inconsistency of speeches and works in relation to the vote of the dismissals and what the SYRIZA's responsible Deputy Head of State of SYRIZA, Mr Theodora Jackris, has said, that her party is supposedly in favour of lifting the restrictions on the right to vote on the Greeks of the Diaspora, which promises that she will abolish them when she comes to the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the unrestricted outcomes was a New Democracy programme and a main aim. Law 4648/2019 laid down for the first time the procedure to participate in the elections of voters registered on local electoral lists and allowed them for the first time to exercise their electoral right from their place of residence. However, it is well known that, in order to pass a law on the majority required by the Constitution, restrictions on the right to vote were imposed on SYRIZA, which led the Greek Parliament to a compromise, as the necessary 2/3 of the majority had to be supplemented, so that the bill would not be rejected. But that did not prevent Mrs. Jackie from saying and promising any more abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of all Greeks, by decision of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, brings to the vote this House this bill on the lifting of the restrictions that had been imposed, namely the requirement to stay two years in Greece over the last thirty-five years and the obligation to submit a tax declaration this year or the previous year. The Greeks who live abroad are part of our country. Seven and a half million Greeks of the diaspora have the same values, traditions and customs, the same religion, the same culture. It is an integral part of our heritage and is absolutely equal to all of us who live in Greece. And now it is time for all to be judged and for the masks to fall on this issue, as they do every day and in many others, to show once again who plays micro-political games, who likes movements - fireworks, who else tells the citizens, but does other votes and who gives false promises once again. On 23 September 2019, SYRIZA submitted his own proposal, according to which the vote on the tax will not be counted against the total Greek figure, but will only give the right for four seats, even a proposal that runs counter to the proposal for a law that he tabled on 23 September 2019. It basically proposes that the vote of the non-Greek voters should not have the same weight as those of the others. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking here about giving a vote to Greeks who do not have it. We are talking about those who are already on the electoral lists, those who already have the right to vote. So does SYRIZA or any other opposition party think that they can only vote for those who can spend a significant amount of money to come to Greece to vote for and not be able to exercise it from their place of residence? Or does SYRIZA want to create a two-speed electoral process in which he considers the demigrant Greek citizens of the second-class and unworthy of choosing their preference party? So who's afraid of the vote and who's making fun of the deceased Greeks? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious matter. The vote of our relatives does not leave any moves of impression or a micro-political, except for a responsible and democratic attitude. Once again, however, the irresponsibility of SYRIZA So I, too, propose that I, in my turn, vote for the Legislative Decree of the Ministry of Home Affairs as a minimum sign of responsibility and respect for the Greek people and the Greek people are made up of every Greek and every Greek, in whatever country they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u52	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Ms. Harula Kafantaris from SYRIZA, will be followed by Mr. Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. In vain the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman tried, after his blood law seminar, to turn the debate on this serious draft law that we are debating elsewhere and not on the real basis, trying to cover - if you want - another cybia of the New Democracy and the policy that he has been pursuing in the legislative area a half and a half - two years now that he is a government. Because in fact, ladies and gentlemen, and those who are listening to us, we have a government that is constantly self-determination. It votes laws, does not apply to them. Then it changes with amendments, changes with new laws what it has already voted on. It is a government that is essentially characterized by communication, plans, announcements. Mr Mitsotakis again made announcements yesterday and I would like to refer to a topical matter of these days. He also made announcements in the Civil Protection he visited yesterday. After four months, he found that there are still logs of trees and accumulated biomass in the post-Medea areas, which, as we know it was in the beginning of February, and again announced new surveillance measures on the major issue of anti-nuclear protection. However, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis passed a law in February 2020 on the National Crisis Management Mechanism, which one month after February put him aside and operates the anti-nuclear protection and design by laws of 2003, and we had these pitiful results, the serious results in the Attica Region, with some seventy thousand burned acres of land, which showed also the inadequacy of the mechanism, beyond the announcements and what we heard from the State Secretary. So, in this draft law, we are also discussing the sensitive issue - because this is a sensitive issue of voting - of our compatriots on the globe. And while L.4648 was voted in 2019 and was voted with a significant majority of MPs, almost two hundred ninety, while Mr. Mitsotakis as Prime Minister was celebrating I would say or rather present him as one of the major institutional areas in Transmigration, you come today and you change him. In fact, it has been a difficult compromise between the parties since, in order to resolve a pending matter since 1975, a commitment to the constitution was made. But today, without any consultation, the proposal has been amended with what we are discussing. The law in 2019, which I mentioned, has not actually been implemented - as I said - resulted from a compromise between the parties. Why are you doing this? Is it the law application? Although the relevant electronic platform operates from February, are the applications a few hundred and the entries in the special electoral lists also few? Do you want, Minister, to escape from the obligation to implement the law that was agreed almost unanimously in December 2019? Or don't you want to charge a failure? Or do you really want to change the agenda from the critical issues of the pandemic, the economy, the recent fire I mentioned and all that? Because polling beyond the percentages given to the two major parties and the difference, they have some quality characteristics from which the New Democracy Government cannot escape. The dissatisfaction of the world and the management of the pandemic, both for the work and in view of the new bill you will bring to Parliament, shows that you are in a very difficult position at the end. Discontent increases. So, do you probably want votes that you lose within our country to cover them with the vote of the homosexuals? Our fellow citizens are, in fact, always in favour of this: to vote out of all citizens without restrictions, with the right to direct election of their representatives in special electoral districts, to vote with a single ballot and therefore not to affect the outcome of the elections internally. SYRIZA was the only party that set up a legislative committee to facilitate the vote on the revenues and did not table its own party proposal. He tabled a specific proposal in the Revision of the Constitution, without which the law would not be voted on to facilitate the vote on the falsifications. Although we considered our non-discriminatory proposal better in 2019, we voted in favour of the law I mentioned before, which brought together almost nine hundred votes, because we wanted Greeks from abroad to have a voice and a vote. Our proposal gives us the right to vote on all the Greeks of the Dispersion without discrimination and restrictions, without altering the will of the body. But you, as a New Democracy, are using our parliamentary declaration to cover - and you bring these changes - what Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, said on 22 March by teleconferencing with Greeks of South America. He said: “I think we will come back to this law. We will strengthen him so that you can as much as you want to share in the commons of the country, do so by participating in the process of highlighting the political leadership of the country." SYRIZA's proposal is deposited in the Revision of the Constitution in Parliament on 5-11-2018. Our proposal adopts the French, Italian and Portuguese model, which, according to the Venice Commission, is the best European practice, as was acknowledged by Mr Gerapetti, the Minister of State, as the rapporteur of the National Committee on Human Rights. At the heart of our proposal, it is for the people to be able to vote for their representatives. Unfortunately, however, the party, gentlemen of the government, is at the core of your own proposal. In summary, our proposal gives all Greeks the right to vote in the Dispersion, without discrimination or restrictions, without altering the will of the National Electoral Body. You are now questioning the compromise in December 2019, passed by the new law with about 90 votes. You are undermining the legislative proposal you have tabled, while you know that this law cannot pass. I think you're mocking the punks. The Ministers must implement the laws that are being passed and not renounce their responsibility for their implementation. You, the government's finest, are experimenting with laws and policies without planning and goals, but only with the micropolitical interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party, Mr Pafilis, has asked for the floor for three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Because Mr. Floris did one - how do I say? - a legal or legal interpretation, if you like, interpretation of everything, Constitution, etc., we would like to remind him of this: what does Article 1 of the Constitution say? "The powers come from the people," he does not say from the nation. People what is it? The one who lives in the country. ‘There are for him and the nation and they are exercised as defined in the Constitution.’. Why does it make this separation? And there was a lot of talk about what would come in right now. Because he's making a separation. And so it is not the same person who lives in Greece and who pays the consequences of any choice - because that is the main one - that is the one who lives in New Jersey, or I don't know where else or Australia, who surely loves Greece. Giokas said that. I don't want to repeat it. Not even the Civil Constitution? Secondly, Mr Ploris said that the law of blood everywhere is valid. So, according to the law of blood, everyone who is from the eighth grandmother is voting. So why, since it is everywhere and in all the countries, are the prerequisites for almost all countries? In some are - how am I supposed to say it? - Axe, banned. Can I give you an example? Your favorite Israel, you've taken off, Ireland. All countries almost make conditions for the exercise of the electoral right. Even the European Court of Justice, which you are defending with your hands and feet, says that the conditions for the exercise of the electoral right are legitimate. And it's finally not the same. So, what do you want? Split up in the insides and the outsides? There's also a historical precedent for the media and the outside. Search it when it was decided to vote for the Greeks of Macedonia, etc. I'm talking about before the Balkan Wars. Why did Greece stop them? Why are internal opposition - if you want to feed it, it is your right - to say that in the end the people of Sydney and New York will decide and elsewhere without any consistency? And because now I see you and not to waste any time after that, I want to say something. You said something two-coastal. I read them. They were bicolabisti, not even in amphitheaters. You say one has private insurance. So he doesn't have any interest. He's got private health. So it's not even affected by state policy. Are you working for us? You're a smart man and a capable man. So when he lives in Greece he doesn't pay HISPIA, does he not pay tax, breathe what he breathes, does he not pay PPC, does he not pay water, if he has private insurance? So don't use those arguments now, because they don't really fit you. You cannot compare under any circumstances the position of a Greek employee here in Greece, who is under all policies, with one who is abroad. That is why all the states make preconditions, which is why we do not stand firm to say 'no, only the Greeks who live in Greece', but we have set certain conditions which you have all accepted. And now can I tell you something? You're already humiliating yourself, making speeches of philosophical about the bill that was passed by a overwhelming majority and coming today and what are you doing? Harakiri. And you'll pay for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Paphie, because this is a scientific matter, would you allow me to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u57	I'm clear from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u58	Well, listen. And Sydney's Greek resident can come to vote here, so it affects the result. It therefore has the right to the law, no new right is granted. The conditions it lays down are procedural requirements, not substance. It is therefore allowed to exercise the right from the place of residence and work, not the right itself, but the right to do so. I'm just scientific.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u59	We agree. And can I tell you something for a second? I hear monstrous things that the Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy has said. What did we say? To create elections everywhere, where there are Greeks who have the right. And now he's telling us about a class sign, who's gonna take the plane, and who won't get it, so he can come over here? With this example? These are ridiculous arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u60	That argument is not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u61	In fact, you had to bend beneath the benches. You have reduced the training grant to learn the Greek language, you have broken up all the consulates. The world who lives today draws mercy to get a piece of paper. And you are now coming and you are concerned that he will not be able to exercise his electoral right because he has no money to come to Greece? We say that there will be sections there and that the electoral right will be exercised there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, however, mostly, Mr Voridis, have I lost any luck? I was also here a year and a half ago, when you were triumphant, as would Dionysus Savvopoulou - who has recently been very friendly about your prolongation from what we learn and see - and, as Newon would say, triumphant about sixteen months ago with all your fairness about the excellent consensus you have reached, about the fact that apart from us Red Khmer, Mera25, which we are archivists and we cannot understand the interests of our country, everyone else has consented. And all right, we're Khmer Reds, we're antro-communists, we can't understand the interest of our country. All of you, who have consented and understood the interest, but above all you, who have shown the interest and have managed to gain the consent of all the others, what happened, Mr Vorides? What happened to your government? Did Mr. Theodorikos make a mistake? Was he a bad Minister? Did Mr. Mitsotakis not triumphantly triumph more than all of you, with the most right of all of you, who achieved this consensus? What is happening now and you want to suddenly spoil this consensus? Or do you come to the words, unforgettable and unexpectedly, of Mera25, now, a year and a half later? Look, I've said it many times and I'll say it again, because I don't like mocking. In order not to mock in this sacred space, I have heard the MP, my beloved and beloved MP Mr. Zachariadis of SYRIZA say for a word, giving you away: "But a year and a half ago we voted, what do you want to change it?" I wonder: Everyone? All together? No, not everyone. Because a small galatic village, for those who read and still read "Asterix" and know what I mean, continues friendlyly to resist yet, in the case of our homeland, you want, not everyone wants in here today, on the basis of what we are discussing and the position you have taken a year and a half ago, the small galatic village is only, infinitely, the Mera25. So we continue to resist. A year and a half ago, you all agreed, thus giving the New Democracy the greatest consensus he had ever had since Kyriakos Mitsotakis ruled. Now the New Democracy itself admits that it was wrong and that it was only Mera25 that was right. Is that possible? Is it ever possible in this country that the New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Vorides, admits that we were right and wrong? No, I'm catching up with you, there's no chance of New Democracy admitting that. So why does he admit it indirectly today? He admits it because he knows, because he knows he can't pass. You represent tolerability, you represent the opening, you in particular pretend that you are serving the consensus and behind the perforated argument that in an interview by Mrs Jackie something has been said and this questioned the consensus that all of SYRIZA had previously given - an interview by a member of the parliamentary group questioned the stance of the Chief and of the entire SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - so you say that it was supposedly a falsification of the support you had then from SYRIZA and because you are awesome democrats and you want real and not false support, you bring it back to get the real support, I imagine Mrs Jakri, not SYRIZA, as the others have explained to you. It's obvious you knew, you know, much better than I do, because you're a constitutionalist, if I'm not mistaken, except professor of Constitutional Law, that they need two hundred votes. Two hundred pints are needed to go through just such a bill, because it is about the vote of the deceased. You know that the beans don't come out, you know that we're all going to vote for those of us who agree or rather those who agree - because with what none of us now seems to agree, right? - with your bill again if SYRIZA says no, the CCU says no, pope, there's gonna be one vote missing. So, in fact, you've been pretending to be a consensus, as you've been pretending for a long time. In our view, Mr Vorides, to tell you directly, the major problem, therefore, in today's plenary debate on the bill to facilitate the vote on revenues, is that, in reality, both as government and Census, you do not intend to solve this problem, because in many respects, it does not interest you to vote on it, but you intend, as you often do, to draw the responsibility that has not been solved, to each other. But, in your opinion, you solved it a year and a half ago. Now why does it have to be the fault of each other or the one that hasn't been solved? It's both of you. You don't want to solve it. Do you want me to tell you anything else, Mr. Voridis and my dear Census? You know that Brain Drain, that is to say the children who have forced with hunger and unemployment to leave, to escape, to migrate like migratory birds from the country and not to be able to return - in a multitude of over six hundred thousand, perhaps more than seven hundred thousand - for a decade, the best children, I mean the most enlightened, the most well-grown, the most cultivated - because where they have landed and will land, find wages for human and decent - so you know that these children, because they have been and starved, because they have done and have been untied, will necessarily tan you. And because you know they're gonna tan you, that's why you don't really want them to vote. Here too, the attitude of the Communist Party - without empathy, you know my friendly feelings towards the Communist Party - is a great question, but really the criterion, this famous criterion, which you have set for the VPM, on the statement. Let's take these children, for example. Those kids left nineteen years old.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u64	They don't get it! Can I protect you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u65	Please protect me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u66	Those who have left in recent years, these children, according to the law, do not need to have a tax obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u67	No, it's not like you say, you're making a big mistake. I'm protecting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u68	Do they have to, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u69	You mean by the law you voted with New Democracy, by this law or by the new one? Tell me, since you're interrupting me, tell me. With the one you consented to New Democracy and parole, did you vote for him or the new one, who will not consent to New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u70	I'm telling you, to understand that these kids...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u71	I asked you something directly, with what law? The one you voted with New Democracy or the one you won't vote on today? With who?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u72	With the law in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u73	So the one you voted with the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u74	Under the current law, children who have left the years of the crisis do not have to prove tax ties. You don't even know the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u75	So I'm telling you directly that you don't know the law either. I know him very well, on the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u76	You don't even know the law! You're a group with the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u77	No, no, you just confessed that you voted with the New Democracy. You know, everyone here knows, on television, that we're the only ones who didn't vote for this unfair law for the Greeks a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Gioka, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u79	I'll keep going. But do you, Mr Voridis, know what it is that we cannot accept? We cannot accept any discounts on the top political right to vote and stand for election. Democracy or ensures and, in this regard, facilitates the rights of all citizens of the country or starts to degenerate. And that is what concerns us more than anything, that is, to get used to the idea of a degenerated democracy, in a democracy with discounts which our rights will be partially exercised. And the lawyers know well what I mean 'partially'. Mr. Voridis, you know better than me that the Constitution says that all Greeks are equal before the law and our rights are common. However, a Greek resident here can vote except for a party and a particular MP, you or me. According to your laws, a Greek who votes abroad will not be able to vote. That's a partial right. Some rights open the buyers in partial democracy. And partial democracy is a non-democracy for real democrats. I will not continue with your bill, as our special rapporteur, Mrs Bakadima, has thoroughly developed it. I have heard her with admiration again to put you in a difficult position. I'm going to go to your government's cradle yesterday. He is the last of the strings you bring to the country by the government "Metsotakis Anonymous Company". He is the cradle of "EMPROS". Yesterday Mr Chrysochoidis attempted? Do I? Mr. Mitsotakis? God knows who exactly attempted, he had the fabulous idea that our Armed Forces - joking about it - the special guards and MATs the theatre "EMPROS". I would remind you of the abbreviation of the debate on 'EMPROS'. It was a history theatre, great. Previously it was an even more historic printing works, wonderful. Then it was a theatre marvelous, which since 2008 six Memorandum governments have let it desolate so far. And indeed, he would be a crater today, if in 2011 he did not take the initiative of groups of artists with the first Mavili Movement for three years, which succeeded another move. Hundreds of artists, then, from 2011 until now, instead of devastated "EMPROS", what did they do? They presented unfamiliarly, i.e. with free entrance, without ticket, in a memorial land with fatal people, four hundred different works. More than two thousand theatrical performances were given, concerts of four hundred and fifty whole bands, over three hundred talks and lectures, hundreds of conventions, exhibitions, poetry and literature festivals, local residents' conventions. It was, Minister and Government of the New Democracy and Members of Parliament, a breath of culture in the center of a very unsatisfactory city, a city that has been divorced with culture and because of your memorials. Yesterday, the crook of your government continued. Listen to see how comedy-tracked the government's crook. You decided it was fine as we were, to call it back, to let it desolate in peace. After the citizens took it back, they continued to become cultural events and events from the very beginning. On Sunday there was a classical music concert. They sang our lyrics singers from the top. The whole neighborhood was there, a thousand people. They saw civilization again. On Monday morning, the police forces of Mr Chrysochidis went to enforce your doctrine "law and order"! Now, listen, crazier. They go in, kick people out and make the following bad. They create the concrete artifact in front of the tent, where the first class of the viewers ends. That's where they put the blended ingredients, they give the concrete milk. This is your relationship with culture. Over there, I found that crater that makes concrete. What did they do with that concrete? They put two and a half meters of iron on all the openings, Mr President, so that "EMPROS" now looked like a post-modern prison when I got there. Fortunately, the Archaeological Service, which is still sensitive to this place, was interested and said "op, here is something wrong". In a maintained building, a contractor, at the command of a state minister, spoils his preservation. Immediately he went a step and said "stop, you're illegal". The question, of course, which the government will have to answer at some point is: What state minister with a name has ordered illegal energy yesterday morning at the "EMPROS" theatre? He has to resign from any post he owns. So as soon as the Archaeological Service came, we went to the contractor. I was there, my master. I had luck and honor. And we told him: "Look, you're an outlaw right now. Come on out right now. You will be arrested and the crime is self-defense." Well, then, the contractor thought about it, until a step was taken in the local police station that said to him: “Come out. You're illegal. You will be arrested.’ He, outsourcing the man, broke his clothes and said: “Would you drive me crazy? The police order me to come to the “EMPROS” prison, to close it and build it all and the police come after two hours and tells me that they'll take me a self-sacrifice, because I did what the police ordered me?” I told him it wasn't the police or the local officials. It is her leader, who is not even Mr Chrysochoidis, who is the Prime Minister of Greece, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I shall conclude, Mr President, by referring to two amendments tabled by Mera25 today. You know, the working bill I am coming from - the beginning of June - you will vote unresolvedly, without any shame - replaces the collective agreements with the individual contract. What does that mean, so people who listen to us can understand? And I'm telling you about me, I'm Claon Gregoriadis, I'm fifty-seven years old, and I'm thirty-seven years an actress and I have the privilege and luck, because from luck I have conquered it, to be famous - bad word - at least thirty of these years. So I am a surname - a disgraceful expression, but this is what is said - if I go with Mr. Latsis or with Mr. Niarche to negotiate a contract, do you think that we will negotiate, Mr. Voridis, on an equal footing? No, of course not. Isn't that right? Mr. Latsis and Mr. Niarchus obviously victorious and my celebrity and celebrity far more famous than me. Think about what's going on with a deliver. Think about what is going on with a waiter, who is at "Stavros Niarchos". Think, then, of what these conventions do. I also tell you, in passing, that the first five hours of overtime cease with this bill being overtime. It'll be overworking. Terrible neologies that don't hide the truth. You do almost ten, twelve jobs to work on Sunday. Also, make the Labour Inspectorate a supposedly independent authority. How independent? So much that this principle will be elected by the outgoing president along with your five ministries. And that principle, of course, will not be independent at all. We have tabled two amendments today, which have the opportunity to become the hero of the people's New Democracy, the people's right. We resurrect each week, to put you in a difficult position, not you personally, Mrs. Kerameos. It is the one that concerns summer high school, forty thousand of our fellow people, who have decided that, although unequal to them society - because they are working for ten hours, because they are raising children, because they have no money for care, because, because you have deprived them of the 1% premium, i.e. 1% of those entering universities are from them, something to say about the world - which was not excluded from others. It's an extra 1%. I mean, it's 1% and he didn't take positions from other children. You have the opportunity to accept our amendment and you all to vote for it, to leave poor children or poor adults who want...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u80	Finish, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u81	I shall conclude, Mr President, shortly. I'm at 15 minutes. Can I tell you something? I'm gonna use my dentology and tritology. I'll finish in a few more minutes. I'll use as I have a right. So these children have the opportunity, Mr Voridis, to let them study. Venice won't miss a needle if you let a hundred poor children go to university and finally get to the MIT or get to Harvard. It's not gonna be a great classic thing. Let them study. They want to study. And really, it's Mrs. Keramea's fault. The second amendment that we are tabling relates to the work that I have just described. I didn't tell you all the work because I don't have time and I want to respect the process. But it is obvious that the working bill that comes in, in turn, takes us a, and a half century ago today. And that's why you're fighting the streets. Not from us. We're telling you to see just one little issue, the little bit of poor dealers with the atrocious multinationals who've taken over this vulgar business. These people are forced almost unpaid - live from tips most of the time - on their own machines, without protection, with helmets of miserable, obedient, at their own expense, to risk. And the worst thing, with the middle-age work you've already done, big multinationals force these children to work on a block. Do you know what that means? Their income is directly commensurate with how many orders they will be able to deliver within eight hours or ten hours or 12 hours. Do you know what that means? It means the vertical increase in road accidents that we see and which is a statistical number now, Mr Vorides. These kids are dying, because the block makes them go upside down the streets, pass in red. You will tell me: 'Does he force them?' No, but he's stirring it up. I would therefore like to say that you have another glorious opportunity to accept, to accept our amendment on heavy and unhealthy. Trust me. There's no more heavier and unhealthy way to work than to be in a duck for twelve hours, with a helmet that makes ten euros, because you have no money to get more expensive, fall down, fall you down and tell you that it's all your fault and that it's irresponsible for the multinational who's hired you. You have glamorous opportunities to show that there is still the so-called 'democratic Right'. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. The first cycle of speakers has been completed and we will now enter the second cycle. Let me let you know how the conversation goes today. We'll finish the sixth cycle. Now, if one speaker still needs another, just before, shortly after, the world is not gone. We'll probably finish today around 21:30 to 22:00, but not after 22:00. So, depending on time, we will see how the speakers are going. The last speaker on the sixth cycle is Mr Constantine Bogdanos. Mrs Theodora Augeris has the floor from SYRIZA and immediately thereafter Mr Manosos Voloudakis from New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Aeger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President, although in turn I was following the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Theodorikos. It will be interesting to hear what his position is in relation to the fact that today we have a new bill that comes to replace a law that was passed with two hundred and eighty-eight votes, almost all of the political forces of the country. And the new bill comes from Mr Theodorikou's successor, Mr Vorides, to overthrow her as well - I would say to you - the parliamentary conquest, but also a political development that could only be recorded in the positive aspects of our parliamentary life. It'll be interesting. I shall listen to Mr Theodorikos, perhaps to his embarrassment, which, I imagine, has nothing to do with the fact that at the moment on the second floor, in a room here in Parliament, the pre-review committee is being held. We have the testimony of Mr. Theodorikos' partner, Mr. Kalogritsa. I would like to believe that it has nothing to do with this, that Mr Theodorikos did not want to be in a discomfort and at some meetings, perhaps to wake up the memory of Mr Kalogritsa and the selective relatives of the New Democracy. In this respect now. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, instead of the New Democracy as a government to launch a sincere and substantial political dialogue on the future of Hellenism, and on how, in terms worthwhile our understanding of Greece and the Greeks of the 21st century can contribute to the better organization of the state, instead of responding to the burning issue of the era, which is the crisis of representation, rather than ensuring all that will enable us to approach with political honesty and technical adequacy the representation of Greeks abroad in the political processes of the territory, instead of all of them, Mr Voridis and Mr. For some years now, he has shown the issue of rights, generally and vaguely, the Greeks abroad, putting the Greeks into their yoke - whenever they want - the Greek Dispersion and the migrants, the youths of Brain Drain, the citizens who live and work in Europe, the colonies of the Greeks in our wider neighbourhood. In fact, the New Democracy as an opposition, in view of the constitutional review, has dared to invoke the young who have been exiled by its own property monumental policies. It has therefore attempted to renounce its responsibilities and to enlist the anger of its citizens, who have seen, in the difficult years of bankruptcy and crisis, their children, their neighbors, their friends, their relatives, fleeing from the border to work. No real concern for these people! We have also seen, Mr Minister, how you have dealt with them in the midst of a pandemic, leaving them behind at the airports abroad. Just the New Democracy and its customer machine tried to use them as an alibi and as a means to bring the conversation, in terms of moral panic, to the Greeks of the Diaspora and to do micropolitical to unwritten votes, believing that Greek immigrants of the second and third generation will find, instantly, a faithful electoral audience. This is the concern of the New Democracy of Mr.Mitsotakis and the successor of Mr.Theodorikos, Mr. Vorides, every time he speaks of Greeks abroad. I do not think that - and with this piece of legislation - you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, are interested in giving a solution to a matter with many implications. You are more interested in appearing as the party of offenders, showing the other political forces as subdivisions of nationalism. If, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you were really concerned with solving the matter, you would have explained earlier to the House why your law, the previous law, has not been implemented immediately, the one voted with a large cross-party majority of eighty-eight votes in December 2019 here in the Greek Parliament, with mutual compromises, to one of the few examples of agreement between the political forces. Since February, therefore, the electronic platform for applications and entries in the special electoral lists has been active and fewer than a thousand applications have been made, and less than a hundred are the entries. At this point I would like to comment on the title of the bill. ‘Delete restrictions on entry in the special electoral lists abroad’. You sell this as if the Inapplicable Law of 2019 had not intervened, as if some previous Treaty - injustice is removed. What's intermittent? Parliamentary correlations remain the same. The only thing that has changed is the Minister of the Interior. Unless that's why the Interior Minister was changed to change the law. Here, too, is proof of your perception of democracy. You have had an approach to the issue of all Greek citizens voting abroad - from the public - without limitations, but only parties, not representatives, with a dilemma and account taken of the outcome of the elections of the territory. We had another approach by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. To vote on all Greek citizens outside without restrictions, with the right of their representatives to be directly elected to special elections, a practice which has been tested by European countries and other countries with a great dispersion. Finally, the political forces agreed, accepted the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece, accepted it by the political forces together, with restrictions, to ensure what? That, as explained in the explanatory memorandum to the law, there will be no room to alter the election result. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, I shall conclude. So we have all, or almost all, accepted the eighty and eighty-eight, who have voted for it, restrictions and criteria of a real relationship between Greek residents abroad and the country, in order to preserve the prestige and substance of the national elections. And now you're going to overthrow all this parliamentary work, not because you want to improve the law, but why you're making election planning with your initial idea. You found here a wicked alibi, a statement by SYRIZA MP - a Progressive Alliance, of Ms.Jakre, who in an interview with the "National Library" simply reiterated our position, that is to say, this simple and legitimate: that in a better context we can discuss what is, in a well-informed and well-thinked perspective, the SYRIZA's view, is a best practice. This is how it is done in democracy when the legal - technical aspects of a political issue are examined and reviewed. So what is your best practice here today and asking for changes, Minister, to the previous law, which has your own signatures or, rather, to your predecessor? I'm afraid the only practice you think is the one that you think is making New Democracy. If nothing else - and I will close with that, Mr President - you should, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, be more careful and have a sense of affairs, bringing this draft law with an open parliament, fully operational. Imagine the symbolism today, making sure you care about the equal representation of the Greeks abroad by voting for a law with the representatives of the nation outside the Parliament. But that's who you are! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Auger. Mr Manosos Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy and the beautiful Chania.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President, for the reason and the good words about my place. Ladies and gentlemen, we could shock someone who has not followed the debate so far, asking the following question: is it possible in our democracy, only one particular category of citizens can vote if and if they want to? The answer is, unfortunately, yes, and that is why I say that we could shock anyone who does not follow the debate. Any Greek registered on the electoral lists as a Greek citizen resides abroad, if he wishes, can in the elections take the plane and come to vote. No one will ask him how many years he is missing or whether he is submitting a tax declaration to Greece or anything else. And right. However, if he does not have the opportunity to take the plane and come from abroad, the Greek citizen who resides abroad who is registered on the electoral lists will perhaps be deprived of his right to vote. The forces that maintain the state of this inequality are the Left Party, under the conditions they set in December 2019 as a prerequisite to consent to the adoption of the law on the vote of the relatives. Their consent was necessary, because the Constitution requires a 2/3 majority for this law. So a compromise was reached at that time, which we accepted as best than was the case at that time. This does not mean, however, that we will not finally try to establish the right thing, when and when the conditions permit it. The right thing is that Greek citizens who are registered on the electoral lists, even if they live abroad, should have the opportunity to vote on elections from their homes and by electronic or e-mail vote, I would add to what is being discussed today. The placement of the relevant SYRIZA department, which recently stated that restrictions on the right to vote of the expatriates are unacceptable - and we agree - created hope that something might have changed on the side of the Officerial Response. The substance, unfortunately, remains the same. In different ways SYRIZA and KKE - one cuts, the other stitches - mistakes the right of Greeks to vote abroad. The JRC has demanded restrictions on whom to vote, such as how many years they are missing, how many years they have lived here recently and whether they are submitting a tax declaration. It excludes from the right to vote tens of thousands of Greeks. SYRIZA places limitations on the weight of the vote. It wants first of all not to measure the vote of the Greeks abroad in the overall result, not to affect any party elected by the government. It simply wants to elect four Members of Parliament from the Greeks abroad. What does that mean? The six million voters who vote in the elections within the country will elect two hundred and sixty-six MPs and all the Greeks abroad four. Assuming that only five hundred thousand are foreign voters, about, those who have left in recent years with the crisis of Brain Drain, this will mean that six foreign votes will have the weight of one vote internally. Can that be constitutional? In 1/6 of the vote - and this without influence on the overall result - SYRIZA agrees to give the Greeks abroad. Great vardnails, gentlemen of Officer Opposition! SYRIZA does not limit the number of foreign voters, but effectively eliminates the weight of their vote. Both of them, SYRIZA and KKE, refuse to vote dialectically, thus further limiting the number of people they will vote for, as not everyone can go to consulates or elections abroad. Why now that refusal? It cannot - they say - talk about the issues of the place someone who does not live here, so it does not know in depth about these issues or have no impact on any of their choices. This objection lies at the heart of the positions of the Left, whether it is clearly expressed, as in the case of the KKE, or served with various helmets and wisdom, as in the case of SYRIZA. This position is wrong for many reasons. Firstly, it ignores the fact that most Greeks abroad who are registered on the electoral lists maintain a live link with the country. She was always strong, she was even more true in the online era. Secondly, it is wrong because it deals with state issues as issues of a household or a company, issues of current management, which are limited to time and place. Funny for the Left, but that's what it does. But they are not exhausted in this matter of the state. A democratic state is more than the sum of the people who make up it. It is the political expression of a community sharing collective identity, sharing basic principles and values, sharing its history and its future. It is no coincidence that the blooming of the Parliamentary Republic historically coincided with the blooming of the nation-state. This Greek nation is represented by the Greeks who live in Greece with the Greeks who live abroad. It is a reality that we are ignoring, the Greek citizens who live abroad. It is a reality that the Left ignores for its own ideological reasons. It is ignored, of course, by some extremist liberals who see the state as only an individual rights management mechanism and society as a sum of individuals. It is also ignored by a number of European federalists, who are attempting to replace the true ties between the nations, with various abstract theoretical concepts. We don't make that mistake. We do not attempt to exclude Greeks from the Greek nation and we know that the communities of Greeks abroad are a force for Greece. We expect them to support our country and we cannot deny them the right to vote and to participate in the things of our country. Apart from ideological issues, however, especially in the case of SYRIZA, there is another reason that gives rise to rabies resistance to the prospect of Greek foreign vote. They feel that in this audience their ideas and positions have no way of getting through. I understand you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because that is the case. The vast majority of Greeks abroad are opposed to your ideas, with your word and your practices. And you know why? Because these are the most important people of work, they are the people of creation and preparedness, those who did not hesitate - when they found them difficult here - to leave their relatives, friends, home, home, home to build their future with their hands and their brains. To these people, what can you say, that your perception of work is exhausted in the chips of the trade unionists of the ECO of the 1980s? So justifiable, your fear of them and your refusal to give them the right to vote. But you should know that the Greeks inside and outside the country are now aware of your attitude and its background and on this matter. In the account you have been detained for the time you have governed, we now add lines for the way you are fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr Voloudakis. Mrs. Konstantina Giannakopoulou has the floor from the Change Movement, which is elected in the 2nd Western Sector of Athens. Happy birthday, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u87	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all Greeks on the electoral lists must be able to vote without any hindrance and to reconcile the election result in our country. This is a clear position of principle, which does not in any way separate Greeks from both domestic and external voters. Any other view and any other view or proposal I am very afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that it is part of micro-party calculations and that they are deeply undemocratic. The debate comes back from the government and all the parties, in my view, should, in my view, take a national and democratic position in favour of the vote in favour of all the results. The Change Movement, as expressed by its special speaker, Ms. Likolis, had from the beginning and always, over time, a clear position on this matter. It also expressed when the debate on the same subject was held in 2019. But we have twenty-two Members, so with the other political forces we took a positive position on voting rights, there were hundreds of ninety votes, not two hundred called for by the Constitution. Let me have a little historical regression to understand what and how it happened. For this reason, therefore, a compromise with the Communist Party of Greece was attempted to table its proposals, which in any case prevented SYRIZA from entering the debate after all, and initially had a total negatism. Of course, Mera25 did not intend to vote on any proposal at the time. So we have reached the well-known result, voting for the drafted bill and law now two hundred and eighty-eight MPs. We all thought it was a first step. However, this step was lacking and the responsibilities were recorded. However, I wonder, ladies and gentlemen. Isn't it really impressive for people to talk about simple analogues, for people to talk about democracy, for equality of vote, and for them to take this attitude? And as if that were not enough, some time ago, the competent member of the Police Vice-Population Party openly and clearly played the emigrants, saying that SYRIZA would fight for the lifting of the restrictions and that, in any case, when it comes back to power, it would abolish them. We are talking about the same party that had set these restrictions. How far can the lie really reach? How far can hypocrisy reach? However, this has in any case given us the opportunity to come back to Parliament and discuss this major issue. The alternatives, however, which once again suggest the Civilian Representation Party is once again for a vote with restrictions. Those who vote in Greece to vote for parties, to elect MPs on the basis of electoral law and to form the election result. However, those who are registered on the electoral lists and are abroad voting their own few and predefined MPs and not affecting the election result. And I said before, who supports this, the supporters themselves, of mere analogy. O tempora, the more! As Greece once again, we have been late and we are late to resolve a problem that has been a problem for years and a problem which, on a global scale, most countries have solved on the practical issues. We, the Change Movement, consider it necessary for the vote, Mr Minister, to be counted on the overall national electoral result rather than on the constituencies. The real representation of the results should be ensured through the creation of a new single region of Greek foreign residents, elected by five to seven MPs through the special lists of parties. The seats that will be held in this way will be removed from the State ballot and from the other constituencies. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Not to the infamous cuts of the right to vote provided for in Article 1. What does it mean to be thirty-five? And why wouldn't it be forty? Why shouldn't she be fifty? Why not be twenty or even the last ten years? You know, there's a tendency from your government to constantly put numerical molds. It's good to see it. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are the alternatives that you are proposing all this time, but they are no more than a vote with limitations. Always vote with limitations. You do not want to count on the overall election result, but have the right to vote on a few predefined Members. Isn't that absurd? Is it not contradictory on the basis of your overall policies, as I have said, for the simple proportionalness and for the equivalence of votes? Isn't it a lie and hypocrisy? Can you elementally explain why you have two meters and two weights? I hope you'll reconsider your position. He's not honoring us. We are not honoured, ladies and gentlemen, by the fact that, according to a survey by the 'Voting from Abroad', by the two-four countries which examined 70% of them, hundreds of forty countries allow for votes to be among the migrants and Greece to be the only European Member State that does not do so. So let us take the step forward, at last, even with this time delay. Let's put an end to this shame. Let us take a step in consolidating the cohesion of the reverend Hellenism. Let us all vote for the vote today without anyone, but no one, limiting and with a clear representation in the seat of the House. Those who do not do so will be accountable, ladies and gentlemen, to the migrants, to history, and it will now appear openly what their true picture is of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Mrs Silver Skondra has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Cardiff. And the Cardinal was celebrating. Her metropolitan temple is Constantine and Helen, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u89	Yes, of course we were celebrating. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2019 we passed a law to involve Greeks abroad in the electoral process. The existing regulation was a compromise - and we all know that - in order to achieve the constitutional majority required, as it was. A compromise to achieve the first step in the right direction, which, however, creates obstacles and difficulties. The New Democracy backed him, of course, but from the outset we had stressed that it had excessive constraints and that it needed changes and improvements. In this context today our Government, depleting all possible dialogue, comes to remove the obstacles and any difficulties that previous law creates. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Voridis, sought a clear public debate at the outset of the bill. It was expressly stated that individual technical issues would be discussed and resolved in committee. The starting point for the dialogue on the draft law is the strategic issues, which require publicly tabled positions by the parties and an open dialogue in order to identify convergences and possible differences. Preliminaryly, as it turns out, SYRIZA is in favour of exercising the electoral right by the migrants without conditions, thereby facilitating the electoral right of all Greek citizens, regardless of where they live. In the words, however, because it sets out conditions which falsify the result itself. It calls for concrete electoral districts to be set up to elect a certain number of MPs, but for their votes not to count on the general result. It actually creates two categories of voters, considering the demigrant Greek citizens of second-class and unworthy to choose the party of their preference. I have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur in the committee saying that a closed system that otherwise weights the vote of the foreign voters with the vote of the elected representatives of the interior is not a violation of the constitutional principle of equality of vote, and that is precisely because it violates the principle of equalisation. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the problem does not focus on the constituencies of the emigrants and how to elect these MPs, but on the fact that the vote should count everywhere. Those who vote have an influence on the overall result. This is a precondition, because we cannot have a vote with a different special weight. Your position is therefore completely wrong. With your position you create citizens of two categories and, apart from whatever legal gaps your proposal presents, you are also losing the essence of the project, the participation of the unscrupulous Hellenism in the political events of the country. The position of the JRC is also mistaken, although it is expressed differently. It says that because they are Greeks who do not live on the ground, to give them the right to vote must prove an economic or social link with the country. In simple terms, it creates a direct dependence on external conditions for exercising the electoral right that every citizen of the constitution has. Incorrect and your logic, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, a logic of exclusion and further alienation of the Greek element from its roots, rather than a positive approach to unification of the Greeks. There has also been the argument that restrictions should be made, because the number of out-of-people are numerically and, therefore, if they vote to a large extent, they will affect the election result. This is the real source of refusal, ladies and gentlemen. The rest are pretexts, not to say'slickers'. Here are the real fears of some. They say 'yes' to the vote on the payroll, so that they do not become unpleasant, but at the same time say 'no' to counting on the election result. It reveals its party, cosy-sponsored purpose, ignoring and mocking the emigrants. The New Democracy, unlike you, has been consistent over time in its positions. We are the political party that identifies the nation with the people and we prefer the possibility of facilitating the vote of the parable Greeks. I close my position, stressing that this bill is right, because it addresses those malfunctions and the conditions that have been hardened and significantly reduced the possibility for the Greeks of the Diaspora to exercise their electoral right. To keep the labelling of our relatives in favour of the vote of Greek inclusiveism and discrimination that this draft law should not be turned into a micropolitical, political and entrepreneurial object of Greeks abroad. They want to vote for a bill that embraces the migrants, encourages them to register on the electoral lists and encourages them to participate actively in the future of our country. It will be a sign of reunification of the land of Hellenism, significantly strengthening Greece's position throughout the world. We all recognise the great contribution that Greeks can make to the political, economic and social development of our country. Thousands of Greeks from abroad, especially when they feel they are close to the mother homeland, have enormous potential to influence international developments concerning our country in a variety of ways. So it does not mean in the difficult circumstances for Greece to ask for the support and support of these important Greeks of the Dispersion, but at the same time for the right to vote, for the country to treat them in terms of caution and to retain them constitutionally guaranteed rights because they are far away. I invite you all to vote for the self-evident, to facilitate our compatriots to vote from their homes because it is easy, anyway, since those who are on the electoral list, if they enter a plane and come, cannot deny them the right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. And Mrs. Rallia Christidou is called to Stepma by SYRIZA, who is elected in the 2nd' South Athens Sector. Mr Papadimitriou will then speak and the Minister for the Interior will be followed by Mr Makis Voridis. Here, Mrs. Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's plenary session is undeniably unusual, since we are going to discuss the overthrow of a law, Law 4648, which was passed by an unprecedented majority of ninety Members. What had Mr Mitsotakis called that law from the Step of the House on December 11, 2019? I read you out of the Minutes of plenary: "A victory for parliament and unity, a model of consensus and political consensus." It is clear, however, that the political consensus even on such issues is disturbing - if not allergy - in a large part of the ruling party, but also to the Prime Minister himself. So on March 22, 2021 Mr Mitsotakis, at a teleconference with Greeks of South America, returned to the subject, saying, "I believe that we will come back to this law, we will strengthen it." So the way has come for Mr Vorides to come, to fold, saying that he is not in favour of consensus and bringing a new legislative proposal to a law that has not been implemented in practice once. Why is the Ministry doing this arrangement? Why does it go on with this regulation in the middle of a pandemic, without consultation and while he knows that there is no agreement between the other political forces and while he knows in advance that it will not be voted on? But only for communications! Is this a serious political attitude towards the Greeks of the Dispersal, or is it a mockery? Let them judge it themselves. The Minister for the Interior, when bringing in this draft law, does not only deviate the views of his party and his leader, professing that a year and a half ago he was not honest, questioning the country's constitution. Especially for such arrangements, the constitutional legislature provides for 2/3 of Parliament's votes, precisely to prevent risks of undermining the validity of the electoral procedure. In democracy, where the ruling party is able to change the electoral lists by a simple majority. Of course, respect for constitutional requirements and democracy is not a matter of high priority to the government. We have seen this on many occasions and not for the first time today. I would remind you, once again, that although the Chief of Staff has asked for a debate on democracy in this House, the debate is not under the responsibility of the Bureau of Parliament, but in fact under the responsibility of the Prime Minister himself. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on redundancies requires a structured, comprehensive and objective approach to this issue. Second thoughts on micro-party benefits are not allowed. And let us compare SYRIZA's stance on this subject with the right-wing attitude. Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance was the only government to set up a legal committee for a similar law. SYRIZA, on the other hand, as an Opposition then, although he considered his own proposal more correct, did not repeat the sterile attitude of the parties of the opposition, as was the case in the previous years of the New Democracy - PASOK, and with responsibility he became part of the five-party compromise, because SYRIZA wants Greeks to have a voice and vote abroad. The New Democracy, for its part, ruled or from the position of the opposition officer, altering roles from 1974 to 2019, disregarded when undermining every debate on the issue of the vote of the Greeks of the diaspora, preferred charter charter flights, with the plastic flags and the free tickets they carried from abroad to vote, a practice that played an important role in the bankruptcy of the Olympic Airlines, to which the debts of the New Democracy and PASOK of course were unthinkable. And when, thanks to SYRIZA's consensual attitude, a law finally gave voice to the Dispersor and accepted by such a large majority, the Mitsotakis Government comes and hastens to undermine the law by means of communal tricks, so haste and handshake, that it did not even keep the pretexts. He did not even invite the House's Committee on Budgets to participate in the drafting of the new bill. The only purpose of the government, ladies and gentlemen, is not to produce a law. It's making impressions. Is the existing law the best solution against SYRIZA? Oh, no. It was not our proposal, but we accepted it, because it was a compromise, one of the two models applied to European practice, and it demonstrates the real link between the voter and the country, a condition that the Court of Human Rights internationally recognises as reasonable. It is a system that also applies other countries with a strong democratic tradition for their own migrants. We, with our attitude, without obsessed, proved that we wanted the vote of the Dispersion. And I wonder: What does the Greek Right stand prove once again toward those who left the country because of its policies over the past few years, policies that caused migratory waves, not only in the past, such as the 1960s, but also recently, with the bleeding of Brain Drain? Indeed, it is very, very much so those who pushed our compatriots to their hostel, those who, with their policies, forced so many people to seek out opportunities for a better life that the Greek state did not guarantee them, those who plundered the funds of the country for decades, leading us to the memorials and the fleeing of the new scientists, now go too far now they themselves as defenders of the Greek diaspora, bringing bills that they know very well in advance that they cannot be voted on by the Greek Parliament. And I'm closing, Mr. President. We understand the agony of the government in the face of the next elections, when they take place, but it will not find the lifesaving that it needs in the communal tactics it is resorting to, no matter how much it hurts. Because the Greek people realise that the core of your right-wing conservative ideology is one and this one: it is the profit, the individual profit by any means, the profit at any cost and the party profit here. The Greek people also realise that only a progressive government, a progressive government of SYRIZA with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, is truly interested in the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. We're still in the north of Athens, but we're going to change party. We're going to New Democracy and Mr. Charalambos Papadimitriou. Here, Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. In 1977 we entered five people in a third-hand Skoda papaio to come and vote. We almost got killed on the way many times, either because the roads were not good either because we were constantly driving or because we were politically disagreeing - it was easy at that time. However, we all had one goal: that our vote should not go lost, especially those of us who had spent several years in order to understand what dictatorship means. All these years, and even since then, we have not been able to resolve this issue definitively, but above all in the spirit that prevailed especially when we went through the frozen roads of the single market at the time of Yugoslavia. The single vote is one and only one. Mr. Katrugale, you know better than many others, I imagine better than Mr. Voridis. Therefore, you are in the unpleasant position not to support what you would support if you put your hand in heart or consciousness. We call it 'in the heart', it's easier. We cannot differentiate the votes of the Greeks. Especially we cannot do it, Minister, at a time when we have already entered and not taken a scent, which is a huge mobility especially among younger people, to scientists. What are we going to tell the scientist who lives in Germany, England, America? That your vote counts less? By whom? Are we going to tell him that he does not participate in political life because he has taken a good job, a scholarship, a participation in a research project and is there for some years, while he is making sacrifices so he can get close to him - if he succeeds - his family, his wife, his children, or is he just from a distance? What are we gonna tell him? How are we gonna answer him? What's strange about me is this. We usually say that there can be a mistake, but it's true that you should always give it to the man who made a second chance wrong. I think we all heard this in the same way - because they were the same words - and we were all very pleased that Mrs Jackson took this initiative, said that. I was even more surprised when Mr. Voridis rushed to take abaja - which we talked about in another language - and to see Greece finally running the party system at a pace of real politics, which is made because we see that things are going on, they go ahead. So there is a second chance right now, and I think you are certainly doing us a big favor - I will explain which one - but we do not need it. The opportunity is for the whole of Parliament to participate. I cannot understand, for example, the position of Mr Varoufakis, who has found a way of not participating in something that would enable Parliament to do something that I believe - I hope I am not mistaken - Mr Varoufakis believes it absolutely. Besides, the support of the Mera25 party to the people who would vote if Mr Varoufakis were given the opportunity, that is to say, that they are in some way or are staying for long periods abroad, is too long, much larger, perhaps than other parties - those who are able to make such calculations. Even that he doesn't. In other words, it is downgrading its party to a political micro-participatory calculation so that a proposal does not pass boldly. But under these conditions, but in truth, we still need the Greeks' vote even more and I will not tell the Greeks, because Greeks and Greeks are one thing wherever it is. And you're telling me that in today's period it's not able to watch the political things, that they don't participate in political life? I'm sorry, I'm being beaten or told by a good talk on Twitter a lot more often abroad than on the inside. So I suppose, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that many more are there and have time and mood, of course, to deal with political things and not leave us alone. They're good. Give them the right. Don't deprive them of it. What are you going to say the next day to these people? You will tell them - because that will be the truth and you will not be able to reject it - that the New Democracy at that time, in particular tomorrow, voted for something which was progressive and we were snuggling. Why would you do that? There's no reason to explain things we might be together. I have often had the opportunity to discuss with colleagues from the opposition on channels, radios. And I was surprised that none of the SYRIZA colleagues have put forward the position you are now supporting. If that position really expressed what you believe would be quick to say. And yet they keep a fisherman's silence. They don't want to talk about it. It's a crack in democracy. You leave a huge space - thank you and explain why - to inspire what I at least strongly believe in, that the progressive party in Greece of 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 and put New Democracy in the final analysis. And you also make a personal gift - and because I imagine it is not right for him to thank you - Mr. Vorides. Because in 1977 the great problem we had after the elections was that a particular fact was raised dangerously, because the dictatorship only had three years back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr Papadimitriou. And since you asked me, I would like to inform my colleagues that we will go up to Mr Xenophobou Baraliakos, number 81, and we will continue tomorrow. I'm just saying it so you know it. Mr Mavroudis Voridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, one intervention. It will be relatively larger than the small interventions, but it will not be my main speech, which I will be doing tomorrow. Let me say this, to respond to a first cycle of arguments, and I think we will continue the debate and allow my fullest position tomorrow. So put as much time as you think, but let's say the nine minutes provided by the Rules of Procedure for my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, look. I have heard a great deal about this so far debate on the motives of the government and my motives. I hear our motives are communal. I have heard that there is no point in this debate and, indeed, this parliamentary procedure, because it is certain that they will not be taken, there will be no required majority of the Members of Parliament. I have heard that we are voting that this debate is only being held to mock the ears of the offenders and because we only want the votes of the offenders and we do not care anything else, that we are manipulating them and that we are hypocritical. You want to say it's all like that? Do you want us to agree on this, to be everyone's worst, and to do everything in a bad way? Good. But there is something very simple. There's a bill we're discussing and removing all the restrictions. We in a bad way brought the bill that removes the restrictions. You, who are well-intentioned, who are ignorant and unintentional, and do not vote against and respect them and honor them, would you like to vote on the bill to remove the limitations and end the debate? Because the motives are insignificant here. Because feasibility doesn't matter, because we have a legal act. We have a bill to discuss that, if you vote, removes the restrictions, whether we have brought it for good or have brought it for evil. Can't you let the psychogram place nice and clear on the political issue we're putting? And be careful, not as you like to put it, to the staff, intergroup, discussion and consensus and other psychologically. Here, legal act, simple and nice. The sovereign House has the following simple solution: it passes the bill and restrictions are lifted. What are you doing looking for the rest? What does it matter? Why don't you put yourself in this? And I'll tell you that in the end that's what matters and we're waiting for our emigrants. Listen, it is not just the debate that took place in the committee, where many representatives of our impoverished people from all over the world heard from all over the world. And everyone, even those who have called you, said one thing, all of them, reluctantly, that the restrictions should be lifted! There was no one who said, yes, you guys, we understand that these restrictions you put are fair, they are right, we accept them, in the end - they are not something special. But one did not say that, to find someone around the world, Brain driveer, newly migrated, spokesman for another at all, to say it. Nobody said it. One hundred and twenty-four Greek communities in Germany sign a text and call on the Greek Parliament: "The Bureau of the Federation of Greek Communities in Germany wants to congratulate the government that submitted the bill with which all restrictions are withdrawn. It is time for all parties of the Greek Parliament in practice, with their vote, without asterisks and retreats, to show that they do mean it." That's what the hundred twenty-four communities say. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But the same thing is said by the Association of Greek Students of the European University of Cyprus, the University of Nicosia, of the University of Cyprus. The same is true of the Greek Parliament. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. To them all, but in the end in history, what will you answer? That you didn't like the motives of our legislative initiative? You can tell them that the reasons for doing so were communist. But even here's the bill, uncommunication, if you vote it will be the law. So, what's the communication for? Communication to have a conversation with Mr Zachariadis on television and something to tell him and something to tell me. Communication is not the parliamentary procedure. I have heard the shocking fact that we are not respecting and we are not honouring the parliamentary procedure. What do you mean? By taking legislative initiative, by introducing a specific procedure and debate to Parliament, we are not honoring Parliament, while calling you at the office to ask your opinion, then we would honor Parliament? And then, to have what? Yes, but? And are you now saying that, if you'll excuse me, you've got the power for the Greeks to say that the restrictions are degrading and insulting and unacceptable and that you will lift them, but I am the one who brings before Parliament, so that we can all put our political position in a clear way, and you are not, you go, and you say that in New York and Parliament, you start and say it backwards? I'm the coward, it's not you! Give us more explanations. Because I told you something else. I told you, do we have a disagreement about how the Members of Parliament are elected? You don't like ours? We said yes to the voter of State, to the first three positions to put the President-in-Office into the vote and to vote on the State vote. You don't like it. That's right. You disagree. You want another way to choose. With you. We're waiting for orders, what you want. Anything you want us to do with you. Say what you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u96	We have tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u97	You have tabled it, how you have not tabled it, Mr Katrugale, you have tabled the amendment. But that's what I'm talking about. You have speeded up and said that you have tabled it, instead of at least concealing it. Why? Because in the end, with the amendment you have tabled, you must explain to us now. You have to tell us. Why, suddenly, have no right to choose a party? Explain. They have no right to party, are they bad? So when you live in Germany, you can't be SYRIZA, is it forbidden? Is a JRC forbidden? Well, New Democracy, I'm not saying, you may have forbidden it. Now I'm talking about the rest, is it forbidden to have a party choice? The citizen, the Greek citizen resident in Germany, does he not have an ideological view? If he wants to use a class criteria, a criterion of class, that's how I think I'm, I think I belong to a class subject, I'm part of a class, and I vote according to my class conscience, if he believes that. Does he not have ideological and political perceptions? Is it forbidden? Oh yes, SYRIZA's proposal is forbidden. Why is it forbidden, Mr. Catrugale? Here is what Mr Katrugalos said to us: we must not divide national unity. Look bad now! Look poor for voters abroad, the national unity is divided. On the inside, when we have parties, do we not divide national unity or do we not care about national unity? Is this national unity the only way to prove? Because here, in your proposal, there is something very strange, especially when it comes, I will say from anyone, but from a left party, that what? That in the name of national unity there can be no parties and parties divisions, why are they undermining it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u98	We didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u99	You didn't say that, Mr. Gioka, of course, the JRC doesn't say that. That's not what the JRC says. SYRIZA says that. So explain why people are forbidden to choose a party. So you will go to a communist who resides in Germany to tell him "you, my child, will take part, I am in favour of lifting the restrictions, not having any restrictions, no one, you will participate in the elections, but JRC will not vote, you will vote for a list". Why is that? Explain the logic of the proposal. Tell us something else that brings you to great difficulty. The JRC - and I will develop, in my main speech, my opposition to his arguments - at least says this, it says: 'Listen, I want to discuss the way the electorate is formed, which will facilitate, I want to say who they are, which I wish to facilitate' and which defines them. We say that this is a bad, unacceptable restriction. But it says so. It goes on to say that 'those who, in any case, will be facilitated have full rights', like everyone else. Listen to what SYRIZA says. In the debate we have, but there are no limitations or there are no restrictions, the JRC says there will be no New Democracy, the Change Movement says there will be no, the Greek Solution says there will be no Mera25 says there will be no. What does SYRIZA say now? Don't be there. Right? That's right. So what does it say next? Not to exist, but to elect four MPs all and everyone, their vote is not counted otherwise. Decreased influence, second-class. They have no right to choose a party. They have no right to influence the election result at national level. Is that a proposal that stands? Is he stepping on? Since you accept that everyone has the right to facilitation, why, while being facilitated, are they suddenly not entitled to influence the outcome of the electorate? Here's what's wrong with you. Because you do not have the courage and moral stature to defend a position of limitation, because it creates you a political issue, you have had to build this whole horrifying grid of contradictions, which you present as a proposal. And whatever honest attempts to do, constitutional or other, this is not based. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the question is a simple one and it will remain. The government's legislative initiative enables us to abolish restrictions and to facilitate the effective exercise of the electoral right of our constituencies, those who live abroad, our fellow citizens, those who already have the right to vote. One is left to see by the end of the procedure whether the Left will refuse them once again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - the Progressive Alliance Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Voridis, I admit you've achieved something perhaps very unique. Don't take it personally, take it as political criticism. You managed to make a fool of ridiculousness. Because only ridiculousness is for a government the legislative initiative on such a serious one, on such a critical, decisive Greek and Greek who lives abroad for years, decades, you have managed to turn it into a legislative ridiculousness since the beginning. Why? Because you had the inspiration to claim that you take it, not in the name of the Greeks abroad, but on the occasion of an interview by a colleague of yours, a SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance. And you claimed that it is a government's responsibility to deal with this critical issue after the positive experience of December 2019, surprisedly taking an initiative, which you will obviously be discussing, Mr Voridis, but which party you commanded from the Constitution, to see whether there is a chance to change the vote given by the parties in December 2019? That is why I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work is a very important one. Did you start this cheap, cheaper parliamentary union - and I apologise for why trade unionism is not at that level, from syndication I apologise - to say that I really think what, Mr Voridis? What do you think? Do you think you will make two historical responsibilities, either on the initiative you have taken or on the initiative you have just said, on the one hand, for two very important decisions that you have made? Did Article 54 of the Constitution, Mr Voridis, in its current form, have you voted for it or not? You recommended it and voted for it, yes or no? The answer is'surely and yes'. We don't, in its present form. What does Article 54, Mr. Voridis, say, that you incorporated into the Greek Constitution today, the Greek Charter for the next few years? He says for the first time in the history of the post-government constitution that: "... preconditions may be laid on the exercise of the electoral right in their place of residence by voters residing outside the territory, such as the bond in the country, self-personnel presence, absence time from the country or presence in the country for a certain period of time in the past." Who put this in the Constitution with his vote, Mr Voridis? There hasn't been such an arrangement since '75. Voridis put it on. Mitsotakis put it. The Members of the New Democracy have put it, along with the Members of other parties. And you come here and think that all these cheap arguments, which have no life longer than a few hours, will be able to cover the responsibility - I will not say the burden - which you have for the first time in history in your own vote - and this is what Greeks and Greeks from abroad have heard - has included this very possibility, that limitations be made. And you come here and bail on the restrictions like they did in the Constitution or in the Law, the Civic Anti-Civilization.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Ragossi says that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Voridis, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u104	Second responsibility, Mr Vorides, as low as you would like to put the level of parliamentary procedure - legislation, get out of hand is the adoption of the December 2019 law. The law of December 2019, Mr. Voridis, as Mr. Mitsotakis himself said in his position, was adopted at the initiative of the New Democracy, Mr. Vorides. I read Mr Mitsotakis' words from his speech in this Chamber in December 2019. So he says Mr. Mitsotakis: “And it had to be forty - four years and eight months to receive this article of legal flesh and bone. And I am proud that this is on the initiative of the New Democracy.’ Ms. Mitsotakis in December 2019. There is, therefore, a constitution in the country, for the first time in the history of the country, which has incorporated the logic of restrictions on the initiative and vote of the New Democracy. The "initial initiative" I do not remove it from the Communist Party of Greece, I will return to it. And it has a law that applies to how they will vote under this regime of specific restrictions imposed by the New Democracy within the Constitution, along with the Communist Party of Greece and the Change Movement, and which has also been passed as a law on the initiative of the New Democracy. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Why on the initiative of the New Democracy? And that's the historical truth, Mr. Voridis. That is historic now that we are going to say, that we have come from the very first moment with this position that we have today, both in the Revision of the Constitution and in the discussions that have taken place on the adoption of the law. And we thought that everyone would vote, that everyone vote on the logic that has been incorporated into this amendment, and that Mr Katrugalos has repeatedly explained. All those who have the right to vote and are included in the voting lists with a single ballot and so on. There are conflicting opinions, different, respected. That was our point of view. And there was also the view, Mr Voridis, of the Communist Party of Greece, which is, in essence, the view of the law, the law of Theodorikos, which said not to vote, to place these restrictions, to become constitutionally tolerated, based on the constitutional review that preceded, and to provide for these restrictions. And the New Democracy, Mr Voridis, you and Mitsotakis have had a very specific dilemma: in which respects you will go, so that the majority of the two hundred votes can be formed within the Greek Parliament. So you have decided not to go with the view of the Officerial Response, but to go with the view of the Communist Party of Greece and to allow Mr Mitsotakis to say here - in this sense, therefore, he obviously said - that on his own initiative the law is being passed. So we have a constitution, for the first time, in the country that says that there may be conditions for the exercise of the electoral right, these restrictions - in the Constitution now, I say, not in law - which were not in place until 2019, but which exist now, because the New Democracy has introduced these restrictions. We have a law to implement these restrictions in the effort to facilitate the efficient Greek voters from abroad to vote again on the initiative of the New Democracy. And now Mr Vorides thinks there will be a serious political scientist, a serious historian, a serious journalist who will say that the New Democracy has nothing to do with what is being implemented and implemented in the next national election and is nothing but the law of 19, because the New Democracy through Mr Voridis took this terrible and terrible initiative, took the ace off the sleeve and brought this legislative initiative, thinking that it would do what? What did he do in 2009? And in 2009 the New Democracy had taken a similar legislative initiative, Mr Voridis, in the absence of all parties. What was the ending? Zero. Nothing's been voted on. What happened? Who remembers? Nobody. So why do I claim all this, Mr Voridis? Because when a party is responsible for the country, when a government wants to be serious about the Greek people and especially about the afflicted Greeks and Greeks abroad and has adopted it, it has voted in favour, it has introduced this Constitution, this Article 54, which provides for restrictions, and has voted for this law because it has chosen to go with the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece and not with the proposal of our own SYRIZA - Progressive alliance, cannot, Mr Vorides, think that it can after such trade unions cheap - I repeat - parliamentary tactics to take the blame for all this. This public debate is so wide. He's so international. You have been told dozens of examples by Mr Katrugalos. There are countries that do not even give the right to vote on foreigners. Not to vote with restriction. They don't even give them the right. They don't make it easy for them at all. From Israel, Cyprus, to Ireland. There are other countries that take the right away from them in just three years' time. He told you today examples, as in Oceania. This is an international debate so serious that even the Council of Europe has recognised that, yes, countries such as Italy, France, Portugal, are legalised to impose restrictions on their citizens when they have such a size, which may have a decisive impact on the election result. And in countries, ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy, where there is no bonus of fifty seats. There is no bonus of the fifty seats, which, in combination with your logic, is obvious where the country's political scene can lead at any time. When all this is data, when all this is well known, you cannot, Mr. Voridis, think that you will escape the responsibility you have for the fact that this Constitution exists and this law vis-à-vis the voters abroad, thinking that you will charge our responsibility to us. We had a clear view from the outset, we have it so far and we say it and we support it. We have also come to this compromise logic, because we did not want a prudent, an alternative to our proposal. Because we have said so from the outset that our proposal was seen as the other side. In other words, you will either say that everyone is voting, but under a single ballot, with representatives who will vote for theirs - the representatives of the voters abroad will be shown - or what has happened. One last thing, Mr Vorides, because you said so too, Mr Ploris said so. It is, in your opinion, unacceptable that the Greeks should vote abroad. But why, Mr Voridis, is it not right for the Greeks abroad, for their vote to be counted for regional election and for the election of the MP? Why doesn't it matter for the Greek and Greek foreigners to decide, if they want, Mr. Kumoutsakos or Mr. Papadimitriou from New Democracy, if you want to vote for a party? Why did you exclude them from deciding, if they like, Mr. Courides or Mr. Voridis? Why, Mr. Voridis, did you do that? Why did you put this brake on the choice of foreign voters? Is this a little bit of a face? Is the person even a policy provider a small issue? And I am not talking about our proposal now. I am referring to what you have put into the Constitution, also to Article 54, which states that the law may provide that the vote of voters voting in elections outside the territory - you have put this - is not counted in a particular constituency. Why not count? Why did this Greek man you were saying before, from Germany, not to decide who he wants to be a MP or a MP in this Greek Parliament? Is that a secondary matter? On the contrary. The main issue is either just as much as the party, in your view and in your view. In conclusion, tomorrow, sometime and the last speaker will make the speech, make his speech, make her speech. This circle is going to close. The only thing that will remain, Mr Voridis, in history is the validity of the 2019 law. See what you will do for the better and better application of this law. See what you will do for the greatest possible participation of Greeks and Greeks abroad in this law in the next elections. See what you will do, so that all the effort to mobilise Greeks and Greeks abroad can be done through transparent and legitimate procedures, with regard to communication and the effort to attract them through a campaign that must be done and so on and leave the rest. Get out of this, Mr. Voridis. In my opinion, neither to you as a party historically deserves such a stand nor, much more, to the Greek Parliament nor, even more, to the Greeks and Greek women abroad, such a attitude that - I repeat - transforms the very ridiculousness you have decided to bring to the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you too, Mr Ragosi. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u106	Mr Ragosi, who was ridiculed by this procedure has already been judged. This has already been judged. Don't worry. But let's go further. Because - I don't know why - Mr. Katrugalos knows the constitutionals, don't you ask him a little before you get up and do constitutional analyses? Article 54.1, 54.4. By the law of Article 51(4) - hear the critical word - may be made conditional on the exercise of the electoral right. Is there a claim that the law passed is unconstitutional? Is that what you understand from our argument? But instead of others now, right? When we say 'other than others', but instead of others. We tell you that the restrictions are excessive, they are abusive, they must not be made and you tell us that they may be put under the Constitution. In fact, they may be placed under the Constitution. Is that what we're talking about now? If they could not, Mr Ragosi, be put under the Constitution, the law would have fallen as unconstitutional. We're not talking about this now. Do you want to go to the junk? You'll vote. The law enables you to vote and remove the limitations you go and say right, left that you want to be lifted. So let's take them off and leave the Constitution alone. Let's go to the next one. What else does the Constitution say? He says: “The law of the preceding subparagraph...”. Incidentally, the Constitution makes a description of alternatives. In other words, it says that there can be restrictions, such as the real bond with the country, the personal presence in a polling station - it could only be a limitation on the part of the electorate - the absence of time from the country, the presence in the country for a certain period of time in the past. There are various possibilities. The legislator here has chosen, as you described the compromise, what he has chosen. We tell you not to have restrictions, as the legislator can do. Let's go further. It can be stipulated that some positions of the Party's National Protocol are necessarily occupied by Greek emigrants. It is possible that the legislator also took advantage of. Maybe. That's possible, too. Whatever he wants to do. It provides him with possibilities. He can do something else, for example, that the vote of voters who vote in elections outside the territory is not counted in a particular constituency, but only on a ground level, what the legislator may have chosen. I don't know what this nice thing is that you're shaking me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u107	All this couldn't before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u108	Yes, and now he can. So it is being established, Mr Ragosi. I hope your Greeks don't have to make it that easy. ‘Possibility’ means discretionary discretion and choice, not mandatory. Maybe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u109	Are you teaching us a lesson?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u110	I'm doing it to you, yeah. Looks like you need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u112	Finally, under the law of paragraph 1 of this Article, one or more electoral regions of Greece may be designated. And indeed, your proposal there is no problem. So tell me where the vote may not be counted on the overall election result? Where can it be? That's what you can explain to me, where it can be, because that's the insult of your proposal. Everything else is sauces. All the rest is the capacity of the legislator. We are making a legislative proposal to you and I am telling you again, Mr Ragosi, why you will not get away with this dilemma. Tell me what you want from all of these "can"s, I can now do it. What you want from the 'can', I will now, under two conditions: no restrictions, equalisation of vote. Take position now and leave them around - around.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u113	Mr. President, do I have the margin?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u114	Sure. You have nothing personal, but as a parliamentary representative you have...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u115	Thank you. Look, Mr. Voridis. I told you before that you have a road to stop, brake this downhill. Finally, stand with responsibility and seriousness. None of what you've answered now was part of my position. I told you very specifically and very simply, Mr Voridis, that the logic of the potential existence of restrictions was established by your vote for the first time in the Greek Constitution in November 2019. It's over and out. So, don't grow up, Mr. Voridis. Take a responsible look at the issue of Greek voters abroad. And stop - I tell you a second time - believe you can leave the fact that has been recorded in undeniable, indelibly historically, that you have created this Constitution which, for the first time, put the logic of restrictions within. You on the initiative, as Mr Mitsotakis said, brought and passed the law establishing these restrictions. It's over and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Statement of the contract for the transfer of royalties due to contributions in kind to an increase in equity between the Private Property Development Fund of the State S.A. on the one hand. and, on the other hand, the Hellenic Real Estate Management and Development Company S.A.’. Let's go back to the speakers. Mr Papadopoulos has the floor from New Democracy, Kozanidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am really disappointed by Mr Vorides, who is trying in every way to advise SYRIZA, SYRIZA's colleagues. It can't be, Minister, that's all. We've been trying for two years and we haven't. Can you do this today? And in what way? For the first time in this Chamber - at least since 2000 I have the honour of being myself - I hear the Minister say, 'Tell me what you want me to legislate'. Guys, what we're living don't exist. There aren't any! That's true! And you know what? The fact that you have been exposed does not change in any way, however much you are trying, because the Greek citizens are tired of listening to this craving, this irony, this game of the front - back and the same. It is true that it took forty-four years to take flesh and bone in the article of the 1975 Constitution to vote for Greeks abroad and to succeed the Government of New Democracy on December 12, 2019, with a cross-party vote of ninety MPs, to give the right to elect the Greeks of the Diaspora. The resolution of the relevant law, apart from any extremism, was an important historic event in Greek political history. The Government of New Democracy in 2019 made a clear and explicit political choice. He chose the right to vote on the abstained Greeks to symbolize the consensus and composition between the political forces and the parties - obviously this was not understood yet - which gives very important added value - and not all these funny jokes that I heard from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - in our Parliamentary Republic, necessary for the country and for a people who go through with his timely faith in human rights and democracy. The New Democracy, although it had a fresh election order of just six months, sat at the discussion table, talked and was open to every proposal. Even the JRC, which is not particularly used to us in such practices, has tabled important proposals. The achievement of the maximum possible consensus, the universal suffrage, I would say, since even the MPs of Mera25, while voting in principle, voted in favour of individual articles, has resulted in this historic regulation, which, of course, was incomplete. In particular, to set limitations. They've been heard on several occasions. I do not want to repeat them because I do not want to tire this House. Therefore, New Democracy and also the KINAAL regressed in 2019 from their initial position with the dictatorial vote for the process without any exclusion, for the sake of consensus and the importance of achieving this on such an important and serious national issue, while SYRIZA then abandoned the problematic constitutional idea of not counting the foreign vote on the final result of the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, in New Democracy today, with the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, and especially with Maki, Voridis - and it was very important, for those who managed to understand, his speech earlier shows, if you like, and how he is politically facing events in our country, and I am glad and fully identified with him - we have reached a draft law to complete this historic event by removing all the restrictions. What don't you understand? What are we not saying right? All restrictions, right-wing. And we are saying openly in dialogue, in consultation on all technical issues to regulate the electoral process. In this clear and good initiative, we face a sterile opposition. And if it were opposition, say, it's going to good. It's not opposition. It's not a opposition to what you're doing. I don't know what to call it and it's not the place that's suitable for me to name it. If there were any other SYRIZA colleagues, they'd find names. I can't do it in this space. But it's not helping, it's not opposition. You also call the Government's initiative a movement of impression. All this has been heard before. You have an important opportunity: Get out of the difficult position in which you yourself entered. Let us vote for the law without any restriction and give this right to people who are Greek, to people - let me the term - who are more than Greek. I come from a region, Kozani, and a region of Western Macedonia, which has too many of our fellow citizens abroad, of all generations. Good or bad were found there. In some things, well, some things have been afflicted, and we all know that. Do not deprive them of this right, without any political placement of essential and substantiatives. Document something. But you can't substantiate something, because it doesn't exist. Who, therefore, today, after seventeen months, is denying that the restrictions, in accordance with the position of all the organizations of the aliens, as expressed in the debate in the committee, weaken the Greek state's will to give rise to the inalienable right to vote in the voters? SYRIZA colleagues, the possibility should be given to all the sources or, at least, to those who wish to do so rather than to those who can withstand the bureaucracy and the technical obstacles to the restrictions that we set in 2019. To achieve this, we need consensus. And that's our target. There are no restrictions that stand in history. Greeks from 1821 to 2021 - and for many more hundreds of years - have an inseparable cohesion of the Greek language, which has been spoken uninterruptedly by the Homerics for over three thousand years. So let the micro-political games and the terrain and prove that you do not take advantage of it as it suits you and when it suits you, but you serve it, because it is the national interest. After all, if you are voting against today, if you refuse to lift restrictions, you are actually proving that in 2019 you did not consent, you simply served the national objective because then it was convenient for you and now it is not for you. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: there is still time for all of us to get to grips with the circumstances, to finish what we started in 2019. History will be written in gold letters and will give us that we have learned to consent not only when we impose our positions, but sometimes when we retreat from our positions. This requires political culture and maturity. Prove to us that there is. And not so much to us. Prove to the Greek society and the Greek nation that you have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. And from Kosani to Rhodope and Mr Dimitrios Haritou from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mr. Haritou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the debate today should have as a matter not of lifting restrictions on listing in the electoral lists, but of removing the restrictions on Parliament's function from the specific lockdown to which you have led it. What, gentlemen, is the issue that is actually being brought back to the House, so that the Greek people who are following us can understand? You are asking to change, to revise a newly adopted law - in December 2019 -, which, with your votes almost unanimously, was voted in this Chamber on how the Greeks, the Greeks abroad, will vote. I listened to you, Minister, a moment ago and you seemed to me to be desperate about what you said, 'Do what you want to vote'. But, Minister, once again you have not said one, but one reason why you are withdrawing the vote you gave to the previous law. That is a very nice thing you told us about the announcements, the resolutions of the relatives. Can I ask you something, Minister? Didn't you know all this when you voted in December 2019 the law? What is it about your judgment and you're asking that a law that has not even been implemented should be annulled? It seems, Minister, that you have recently become addicted to cubism. It doesn't explain any differently. With the drug cannabis you did well, because it needed a simple majority. And you did fall softly. But here, gentlemen, we need an increased majority. You know you'll fall on the floor. But why do you insist on bringing this law? I have heard your rapporteur, Minister, claim that you have taken Mrs Jackres' hand and ran to change the law. No falseer. From the hand of the Prime Minister himself you took the spit, Minister, when Mr Mitsotakis on 22 March - not by accident - promised a teleconference with the Greeks of South America that he would again change the law so that they could participate in the commons of the country, as he promised, in the process of highlighting the political leadership of the country. It was time, Minister, when you found that your undisturbed goal of changing electoral ties within the country with the vote of the revenues was unnecessarily dreamed, when the eight hundred thousand, which were the initial leaks of anticipation of the entries in the special electoral lists, were then reduced to three hundred thousand, while the applications were now limited a little over a thousand and the entries near the hundred and all. So, ladies and gentlemen, when you realised that the overpriced expectations you had cultivated to the remote Greeks were disproved, as your policies in society are disproved, then you resorted to the fireplace of today's prefecture in order to enjoy your impressions and to transfer your responsibilities to the other political forces. Sadly for you and fortunately for society, you see the theatre of your pursuits to work on the votes of the frustrations. They understand the communication games you play on the back of our relatives, thinking they won't understand your ass, no matter how skillfully you're trying to do it. You have activated, gentlemen, your permanent syndrome, which is the cheap communal diversions, to obscure the reality, to cover the failures of your policies pursued, as at this time your failure to open up with tourism plan. We live strongly in the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, with the preoccupation that you handled the opening of the Nymfaia border, undermining the tourism of the region. Ladies and gentlemen, do not try to transfer your responsibilities to the other political forces. Did SYRIZA have and always has the same fixed position? to have a voice and a vote, not only to vote, but also to elect their representatives. We did not call into question the Act of December 2019, which was a prophetic compromise on the participation of the impoverished in the elections. For our part, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for the vote to be taken by the democrats and their representatives in electoral districts, which will be defined as now in the Constitution, in order to see who really cares for the migrants. Here is the proposal to assume your responsibilities. That's enough of the big talk. You have ruled the country for many years. You didn't do anything. You have not taken any initiative on this matter. SYRIZA is the one who, as a government, took initiatives. He set up a legislative committee to propose a law that would give an answer to the constant request of the relatives. It was SYRIZA who tabled concrete proposals to the Revision of the Constitution, without which, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the law to facilitate the vote would not be voted on. With our responsibility as a party of the Anti-Population Officer, we have come to this debate, although from the outset it was apparent from your side that you are dealing with it in a pretext and in a communication way. With a sense of responsibility, then, we are ready to contribute to ensuring that the digital common law of December 2019 is implemented in the best possible way to ensure the greatest possible participation of the degraded Greeks, which will be in the interests of our country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Haritou. It will close the second circle of speakers with Ms. Apatzidis from Mera25, who is elected to the First East Attica Sector. Here you go, Mrs. Apajidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. If I may, before I begin my speech, I would like to refer to a meeting I had this morning. I attended Hope to support Dr. Costas Curse for his just demands. A characteristic case, which shows how you manage your pandemic and what your placement for the workplace is, Mr. Voridis. Because he said the self-defense, he got fired with a sack. At the moment, there are thirty empty positions of radiologists in Attica, while on the list of ancillarys there are only two people, and the HR is doing everything in its power not to re-enter Mr. Catasta, of course, at the expense of the citizens, of public health. And within the dystopian climate you also bring this bill. The bill now. Mera25 was the only party to vote against Law 4648/2019 for the vote on the results. It has very serious reasons for this attitude, and it is now justified. The unacceptable interconnection of the right to vote and stand for election with our economic situation and taxation went more than a century back. It was a real shame. In addition, the democratic deficit was expressed in two ways: firstly, by preventing Greeks from exercising their right without being in Greece on the day of the elections and, secondly, by the lack of electoral districts for the Greeks. The political substance lies in the overall relationship between the Hellenic Republic and the Greek Parliament. As MERA25 we have developed a comprehensive plan for the country's relations with the Greeks of the Diaspora. We're moving on three axes. Firstly, respecting the promise of education for migrants and resolving the chronic problems they face. The Greek state undertakes to provide the necessary structures to maintain education and education structures for Greeks abroad. In fact, however, he does not fulfil this commitment, as the educational structures are under-funded and subsidized, especially after the decade of the Memorandum Lala, for which the New Democracy was clearly responsible, PASOK and SYRIZA. The second axis is the care of Greeks abroad for what is happening in their country today. The question should be the essential involvement of Greeks abroad in the current political and social reality of the country. Third axis is correcting the imbalance in the law on their voting, which is not achieved by the present draft law of the Ministry of Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks now vote and take part in the national elections, but they will come to vote not as people with a centre of their lives and their activity in the country where they live, but as indifferent members of any constituency within the Greek territory. This fundamental error, which continues with the bill we are debating today, maintains in the relations between the Hellenic Republic and the Greek Democratic Republic an imbalance. Mera25 during the parliamentary debate on Law 4648/2019 had tabled an anti-proposal for a law, Minister. The proposal of Mera25, which was fully in line with the principle of proportionality, provided for seven electoral regions of deceased Greeks, distinct regions with their own votes and their own candidates for the areas where they live, work and divest Greeks abroad, not inviting them to vote for one or other candidate party in the constituency where they left for years or decades or to vote for a list of State, i.e. only a party. Apart from a legislative amendment to the electoral law on the emigrants, which we have proposed, and which we insist on as Merra25, we are also opposed to the deterioration of the General Secretariat of Hellenism. We strongly criticised the conversion of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic to an address and hence to its more dynamic direct dependency and subordinate to the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Since 2010, there has been a real deforestation of the human resources of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, with voluntary retirements of the Memorandum years not being supplemented by a similar number of new entrants. In the Secretariat-General up to a few months ago, there were fifteen - sixty-five previously - and only ten or eleven people left at the end of the year. We see the gradual deforestation. People with pre-service, with thirty-five years' experience, leave without any replacement of their positions by qualified personnel. A similar situation exists with the consular authorities, as the President of the Greek Community from Paris, Mrs Theodoridou, pointed out at the meeting of the bodies, with the consulates being increasingly fewer and fewer officials. To close an appointment - Mrs Theodoridou said - for a passport to the Greek Consulate in Paris you must wait until October or November. What does this whole situation show? On the one hand, we have the sub-funding of educational structures, the closure of departments and programs of Greek language, the deterioration of the General Secretariat of Hellenism, the sub-delegation and shrinking of consular authorities and so many others. On the other hand, we have the sudden interest in the New Democracy following the statements made by Mrs Jack, a chance for another communication show. We are clearly seeing the hypocrisy and delinquency of the government. Why has New Democracy and the PASOK not brought a bill like today since 2001? Because they really don't care about the migrant Greeks. You do not care, ladies and gentlemen, about the monumental arch, about the genuine involvement of Greeks abroad in the political life of this country, nor do you care about solving the problems they face. You only care about their votes. Above all there is your small-party interest. But why now? The statements made by Mrs Jackis were only the occasion, the reason lies elsewhere and the answer resulting from the handling of the government is one: with the forthcoming elections to constitute the first record of the political participation of Greeks abroad as voters, the Mitsotakis Government has turned its eyes to their vote. It seeks, in other words, to use the changes that came a few months ago from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the changes that we are voting on today in order to show itself, to show the government's image - do not laugh, Minister - to campaign the migrant Greeks in its favour. Ladies and gentlemen, both the previous and the draft legislation on the vote of revenue does not guarantee equality for every Greek citizen, by circumventing basic points of democratic representation. It does, however, mainly ensure small and medium-sized interests. In Mera25 we are not interested in micro-partnerships, that is, the political exploitation of these people, unlike New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement. The real issue is one for us: the real involvement of Greeks abroad, either the second, third generation or the half million immigrants of the Memorandum of Monument - Brain - Drain, as you said - in the current political and social reality of the country. Of course, we are voting against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. And we're entering the third circle. Mr Vassilios Yoyakas opens the door from Thesprotia and New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u123	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for those who deliberately overlook it and deliberately want to create confusion and impressions in the world that are following us, I will be forced to say the self-evident thing: in the bill that we are debating some of the amendments of a law adopted about a year and a half ago by a large majority of Parliament, according to the Constitution's requirements. What's that law? It concerns the participation of Greek citizens who have an active right to vote, who are registered on the electoral lists and on the day of election, who are permanently or temporarily outside Greece, that is to say, how these compatriots, instead of coming to the vote in some constituency of our country, will be able to vote at the place or near the place they live abroad. This is also the purpose of the bill, to make it easier, more functional, more open, the possibility for Greeks outside Greece to register on the special electoral lists. Why does this have to be done? Because the dilemmas, limitations and supporting documents provided for by Law 4648/2019 discourage many of our compatriots to write, so even to vote. It may be that, ladies and gentlemen, a price for the compromise of the minimum common denominator agreed in 2019 to pass the law with the minimum extended majority of 2/3 of the House. This first important step which took place after about four and a half decades we want to improve, by abolishing restrictions and conditions, such as the minimum residence and tax obligation, by abolishing the supporting documents for applying for entry in the special electoral lists, and by abolishing the eight-year period for listing in these lists, changes that the representatives of the federal organizations welcomed as positive, because they are indeed facing problems of the current law, changes which these bodies consider to be consistent with the statement made by SYRIZA's democratisation in the "National Library" to remove these restrictions, a statement that created the expectation that the necessary consensus of the Anti-Population Officer could be reached on these changes. But instead of consensus, what did we see from SYRIZA in discussing the draft law in committees? Ladies and gentlemen, we first saw a number of procedural issues, such as the role and presence of the Special Committee from the Greek Democratic Republic. We have seen that it is because of the law and not its provisions, that is to say the limitations and the bureaucracy of registering on the electoral lists. We have seen to silence or want to change what Mrs Jackson said publicly in favour of lifting restrictions. We have seen even underestimating the representatives of the frustrations, calling them the victims of government propaganda, because they expressed themselves positively for the bill. But what we have seen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, is a SYRIZA which, in order to escape the difficult situation, has left. While the issue is as easy and open as possible to participate in the elections, it dealt with whether and how to measure the vote of Greeks abroad. Before we improve the first basic step, we go to the third stage, SYRIZA tells us, and since we do not discuss the third step, we do not accept the first one, he tells us again. The well-known method of 'all or nothing', 'other words to be loved', that is to say, or if you prefer 'the ball to the cradle', as Mrs Lykoulis from the KINAL said. With these pretexts, therefore, SYRIZA refuses to support the improvement of the law that he voted for, an improvement supported by his perpetually competent representative, an improvement that the organized by democratic Hellenism accepts. Ladies and gentlemen, in December 1919 I said from this Step that the resolution of No4648 is a parliamentary conquest. It is a sign that the political system matures after a period of intense polarization. Unfortunately, SYRIZA with his negative attitude despises this parliamentary situation. It now applies as Opposition the SYRIZA internal and SYRIZA system, others here and outside. The worst is that, and not the government, which raises the issue of the vote of the non-Greeks in the bed of Provrost, these political settlements, electoral calculations and communication goals. Please, our compatriots deserve better treatment. We belong to the same political community. They have strong ties with their homeland. They offer it with generosity, with love, with unselfishness. They are advertising and defending our country, monitoring and expressing an opinion on what is happening here. For us in the New Democracy they are our equal citizens. They are not second-class voters, as SYRIZA treats them with his attitude. These people who both honour and hurt their homeland, let us not disappoint them, and at some point agree on the basics, so that we can take the next steps, which will further reflect the needs and expectations of our compatriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr Yoyakas. Let me repeat, because many colleagues are calling, the last speaker today will be Mr Xenophobou Baraliakos. I'm not saying a number, 'cause we have a different list, and tomorrow we'll start at 9:30 in the morning. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou is now called in Stepma by the beautiful Volos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to say from the Step of the House that I feel very happy today. I am pleased that Mr Vorides, the Minister, is particularly appalled, has given me colour to the debate, and he can already convince me personally or convince us as SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, if we did not know the history of today's debate or rather if Mr Vorides sat down in the Chairs of Anti-Population rather than in the ministerial chairs. So why am I saying that? The overwhelming majority of Members' speeches usually begin every bill with the following words: 'We are discussing the bill today'. Today, however, what we are doing on the substance is to discuss again on the vote on the results, although about a year and a half ago, in December 2019, on the governance of the New Democracy, following an extensive and difficult negotiation that resulted in a co-decision of positions and a cross-party agreement, the draft law on the vote on the outcomes was adopted almost unanimously. In other words, the issue has been settled by two hundred eighty-eight votes and the government considers that it should be reopened. Indeed, this law has been brought to an end in order to settle - as a New Democracy Member rightly states - a half-century outstanding and not yet implemented. I will agree with you, Mr. Voridis, to put aside the psychographs. We don't need to enlist psychology science to explain today's debate. We can, however, well and I believe that you will agree with that, to enlist political science. Do you know what political science says about today's debate? One word comes out: feasibility. So it is the purpose of today's bill. In the midst, therefore, pandemic, amidst economic recession and generalised uncertainty, New Democracy argues that the law that has passed a set of laws can also be judged unconstitutional. It proposes its amendment, although it knows in advance that it will not be voted on. It even accompanys this incomprehensible legislative proposal with inexperienced invitations and challenges to create impressions and division. Mr. Voridis, you're the meter of the kind. So, have you paraded an artificial crisis today, to tell the emigrants what? That we want you, SYRIZA doesn't want you in this way, and you believe that you will reap votes from the emigrants. I think you're acting like they're stupid. But it's not Mr. Voridis. You even think - this is the most vicious of all - that you have also had a dress on SYRIZA. I will say that you are mocking the deportees and you are unable to demonstrate the minimum of the seriousness that they require, both in terms of the vote and the situation in the country today. I think this is not the first time, unfortunately, that the New Democracy has used parliamentary procedures as a tool for disorientation and evasion of responsibilities and the laws as a ravenous to collect its leaks. You understand, then, and tell the truth, that the subject of evidence is the great game for you. You consider them to be and that the foreign votes will be able to replace the lost votes of the Greeks internally, a plan B, that is. So the time, Mr Voridis, of the earlier death of the law that we voted unanimously has nothing to do with Mrs Jackson, as you claim. Stop ruling opposition. The Qualified Opposition doesn't legislate. On March 22, 2021 Mr Mitsotakis, at a teleconference with the Greeks of South America, talked about strengthening the law, so that those who want to participate in the commons of the country can do so by participating in the process of highlighting the country's political leadership. Today's debate is for reasons of feasibility and not substance. Let's not have any illusions. It is not of interest to the New Democracy, nor to the representation of the results, nor to their voice. It's just another tool. You consider it a ready blue tank to ensure your re-election. The question of the vote is not a new one and the New Democracy is not a government for the first time. I think one thing - and you are wrong with that, Minister - is the crucial question. The question is what kind of family we want. Do we want a homogeneity that claims and fights for Greek positions on national issues? A homogeneity that promotes Greek tourism, Greek entrepreneurship, Greek investment? Do we want to create party leaders abroad? Do we want the Greek-populated Greekism united for the good of the country or divided? That is the dominant question, and that is what we have to answer today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Meikopoulou. Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u127	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, about a year and a half ago, in December 2019, the constitutionally guaranteed right of Greeks abroad to vote from their residence at last took flesh and bones with Law 4648/2019. With the emblematic bill in every respect that I had the honour of introducing on behalf of the majority, the Greek Parliament restored a historical injustice, while emiting a strong message of unity towards the invasive Hellenism. Since the beginning of the processes and negotiations that preceded the adoption of the law, the New Democracy's position, as was also reflected in the public dialogue, was and remains firmly and clear. New Democracy has always advocated that all Greeks should vote abroad, without exceptions, provided they are registered on the electoral lists of our country. And since her original position she was never moved, she never made any discounts. However, given the necessary majority of the two-member parliamentarians provided for in the Constitution and in order to implement that great institutional section, the government has made necessary concessions. The conditions and limitations proposed by the other parties, namely SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece, were accepted. In order for Greeks abroad to exercise their right to vote from their residence, it is therefore necessary to have a total of two years in Greece over the last thirty-five years and, in addition, to have submitted a tax declaration either in the current or the previous tax year. These are restrictions that the representatives of the institutions of the Greek Parliament had expressed since then, a year and a half ago, the view that they would make it very difficult to exercise their electoral right abroad. That is why, as the title of the bill shows, the above restrictions are abolished, so that Greeks can unrestrictedly exercise their electoral right abroad. In simple terms, all the conditions and bureaucratic obstacles which made it difficult for our compatriots to participate in the elections, as their representatives told us at the last week's meeting, are being abolished. The Minister's legislative proposal had the universal acceptance of the representatives of the Greeks who were in favour of removing the restrictions and their voice had to be the guide to all of us. This is a voice which clearly calls for consultation and consensus on this important national issue. In fact, such a consensus was shown by the Minister, who repeatedly stated that he is open to parties' proposals. Today, he said, just now, by setting only two red lines, but which are the quintussia of the entire legislative initiative: Firstly, we should remove the restrictions and vote on all Greeks abroad, without any conditions and footnotes, and secondly, their vote should normally be based on the overall result of the national elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, reference has been made to paragraph 4 of Article 54, which states the limitations. This provision, ladies and gentlemen, of the Staff Regulations, does not in itself contain any restriction. All he does is provide for a law to be passed by the House, with which procedural conditions will be laid down or withdrawn. We in the New Democracy are saying in the bill, which we are also voting in favour of not wanting the conditions, here and now. Are you voting for it? Turns out, no. Firstly, because, with the amendment you are proposing, you are creating two speed electors. And, secondly, your amendment cannot in any case stand constitutional and I will specify it. What you are proposing is not to count the Greeks' vote on the overall result, it is in line with the general rule of Article 51 of the Constitution, which provides for direct universal and secret ballot and that we cannot have a differentiated legal consequence of voting. If the foreign voter is in Greece in the course of the elections, his vote will be counted against the overall result. If not, it won't be counted. So the legal result of his vote depends on an accidental event, that is where he will be on election day, which is directly unconstitutional. Furthermore, the conditions set out in paragraph 4 of Article 54 of the Constitution, as voted by the Revision House, are procedural, restrictive, and we cannot make a broad interpretation and go to substantial derogations, because it would be directly affected by the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy wants Greeks and Greeks to vote all over the world, those who once again have a look at us. Our compatriots who left decades ago are looking at us, but they are still practically proving their interest and their love for their country. We have been looking at thousands of our young people who left the country for the last decade to look for work abroad. They expect us to do the self-evident thing, not turn their backs away from our country's political events. With historian N.4648/2019 we made the first major step and we all did it together, with the great and rare parliamentary consensus of the eighty-eight votes. We exceeded every limit and every party interest and became ourselves the bridge that united the universal Hellenism with the country. So let us stand together today to the extent of our circumstances and historical responsibility and take the next step together. Let us give every Greek abroad the opportunity, without exceptions, to read this bridge, which will bring them a step closer to home, so that the Greek Parliament can be the Greeks' Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Papadimitriou. Mr. Neocles Cretan from the Peloponnese now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the results of Hellenism should not be a bill on which the Communism will negotiate with the Opposition on how many and who will be able to vote. That is because the answer is a clear and self-evident one. They must have the right to vote. If there should be a single criterion for a Greek compatriot to vote, that would be his interest in the Greek reality, the Greek political scene, his love for our mother homeland. And this interest, gentlemen, is measured by the intention to participate in the process of electing the representatives of the Greeks in the House. With his action to vote for those he thinks can express him, to better manage the fate of the mother country. Is it true, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population more Greek, is the resident of Athens or Sparta who does not go to vote by a corresponding Greek counterpart from Sparta or Athens who monitors the current situation of Greece, respects and observes the Greek customs and acts as our ambassador abroad? Of course, this is a rhetorical question. In addition to the basic definition of the citizen, in which he is the citizen of a country that gives him the right to exercise political rights, we could say that in modern times, where information is accessible to all of us and values characterised by a city, a region or country can also characterise other cities, regions and countries, the concept of locality is therefore obsolete. We are definitely talking about common values, and I believe, when we talk about Greek citizenship. We are talking about our relatives and friends, our brothers and uncles, who have moved abroad without ever forgetting their homeland. So if we want to talk about citizens of the world, about strong Greek community, about the universality of Greek tradition and Greek culture, then it is very important to discuss terms and conditions which deprive Greeks of the right to participate abroad in the electoral process. New Democracy, in defending the right to participation, brought the bill on the vote of revenues in December 2019 and was voted in favour of it with two hundred eighty-eight votes. But they had entered limitations after your shocks and suggestions, gentlemen of the Opposition. We took the big step in December 2019. You wanted to put restrictions again on negotiation, to limit the electorate of the offenders, the Greeks. But, oh of the miracle, from the lips of a Congressman, the truth was heard: The limitations of the draft law on the vote of the results are unfair. They must be abolished. That is why we are here today to abolish the unfair restrictions that you imposed on you to vote on the bill in December 2019. We are here to further open the arms of Greece to the remote Greeks, to give them the opportunity to participate, to co-develop political life. Truly, how democratic this is, how innovative, how Greek, ours. Ladies and gentlemen, we could again find a common place to convene, especially as regards the definition of electoral regions on geographical criteria, as requested by SYRIZA. The major and important thing is for you to accept both and for you to vote bravely for our two main changes: firstly, the lifting of the restrictions laid down by the existing law for the vote of the revenues from their homes and, secondly, the measurement of the Greeks' votes as a whole. We don't want two-class citizens, gentlemen. We want citizens of Greeks of the interior and of the outside, who can shape the political life of our country. Greece is fleeing from the narrow borders that history has told her. Greek citizens are citizens of the world. Its culture and value pass horizontally and vertically each country and every nation. The possibility of Greeks taking part in the elections to the birthplace of democracy is a fact of history and even escapes from today's debate. Let us finally listen to the thousands of voices, the tens of associations of the Greek Dispersionism, even those that were added by SYRIZA to participate in the debate, which were unanimously in favour of lifting the restrictions in question. It's our obligation. It's up to us. It is another important step after December 2019. It is a step forward that raises Greece, which unites all the Greeks of the Diaspora again in body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, too. Mr. Georgios Papaliou is called in Stepma from Arcadia and SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the current bill abolishing Law No4648/2019, which has been a product of widespread consensus, including the ruling party, New Democracy, which at the time it was introduced and voted on were ruling. In fact, this law was presented by the Prime Minister as one of the major institutional areas of post-population. For this law, which the New Democracy itself tabled and voted by a large majority, it has so far not taken the necessary preliminary steps to put it into practice. In this context, he is using hypocritically and intriguingly, I would say, an extremely important issue regarding Hellenism, where land, to attack SYRIZA falsely. The current bill is an institutionally unsuccessful non-constitutional government option, since a majority of 2/3 of the total number of Members is needed in its vote. And it was known in advance, Minister, that this is not possible and will not be done. Thus, this option is ignored and the relevant constitutional provision is ignored - a check that imposes consent. And, of course, the consensus had to be preceded by consultation of the parliamentary parties, so that the total number of Members could be raised. You have not done that. Not only did you not act in this direction, but on the contrary, you decided to introduce this bill suddenly, without preparation, and, I repeat, knowing in advance that it will not be voted on. After all, you, Minister, are 'allergic' towards consensus and you have succeeded in the Step of the House against them, saying that the majority decides for everything, does not have to seek consent and thus'should put water into its wine'. So what you said, that we are doing a psychography and looking for government intentions, is not correct. This is an incompatibility with the Constitution, a move on your part. The Constitution cannot put it aside, as you said in a reversal of your speech, Minister. This means that you are not really interested in the substance, but communication and impression. You are reluctant to serve small-party purposes, creating a communication bubble. The proposal to abolish Law 4648/2019 is put forward in such a way as to create false impressions, with dissatisfaction as well as between Greeks abroad. So the national major and partisan small, as your rapporteur said, are empty words without substance. The same applies to the cause and reason that has been added. I come to the essence of the debate. Greece is a country with great dispersal compared to its population and, like all associated countries, it must best manage the balance on the one hand between maintaining the dispersal ties with the mother country and, on the other hand, respect for the democratic will expressed by the citizens who live in the country and which are concerned with and influenced by policies pursued by the government in question. In any case, the current government proposal, like the current legislation, relates to facilitating Greeks abroad for the exercise of the electoral right, as is the case with the facility for the general public to exercise their electoral right at their place of residence. The main points of our proposal are the possibility of exercising the electoral right abroad, which applies to all Greek citizens - voters, provided that they are registered on the special electoral lists abroad, the electoral right to be exercised in person in special elections, which will be created at the seats of the Greek diplomatic authorities and the voters of the foreign for the combinations of the parties for a certain number of seats, which will be determined solely on the basis of the votes abroad or, in any case, by a constituency which will be constituted in the countries where they reside. From these rules, SYRIZA is not assigned over time. His original proposal on the subject was to vote on all the out-of-people, without limitations and with the right to direct election of their representatives in special electoral regions abroad. Furthermore, the same proposal promoted and voted in the Review House in 2019 and is now reintroducing it with the amendment tabled. It therefore seems clear that our responsible attitude, throughout the entire process from the Revision of the Constitution to the adoption of the 2019 Act, but also in today's debate, is to be implemented in practice and therefore to facilitate the exercise of the right of Greeks abroad to vote, to hear the voice of the deceased in Parliament through their representatives, without prejudice to the will of the electorate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Instead of applying Law 4648/2019, which she has brought to the vote, the Government undermines him to the detriment of the fraudulents. Mr New Democracy, you are acting hypocritically and, I repeat, culminating solely in communication and impression. SYRIZA remains SYRIZA and you as a youth - on the right of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, do not forget either the right or the neoliberal dimension of your space. In conclusion, the content of this draft law reflects the true perception and approach of the Government of New Democracy in relation to democracy itself and in terms of procedure, but also in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. And now we're going north, Mr. Vassiliade from New Democracy and beautiful Pella. Here, Mr Vasiliadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to amend No 4648/2019, which, on the one hand, has never been implemented to date and, on the other hand, is a product of compromise between the political forces of this House. The reasonable question arises as to why the government is moving on to this initiative. I think that both the meetings of the competent committees and the public debate that has come back on the occasion of this draft law show two reasons why this revision is necessary. Firstly, the vast majority of non-Greek Hellenism is not happy with the current provisions of Law 4648/2019. Secondly, the government has given it the task of Representation officials in favour of revising this framework. The regulation we are debating today provides for the removal of restrictions and the facilitation of voters who are out of place to exercise their right to vote. These restrictions were introduced as a result of the compromise I have outlined and relate to the conditions and obligations of the electorate for the submission of documents in order to be able to exercise their right to vote abroad. The resolution of Law 4648/2019 was a milestone for our legal and political system, with undeniably positive results for Greek society. But we should recognise that it actually creates two procedures for exercising the electoral right of the same person with completely different characteristics. On the one hand, a person may choose to come to vote in Greece, in his own constituency, provided he has the financial capacity, but also the time necessary to complete this journey, and at the same time he may choose to deal with the daring bureaucracy needed to exercise his right to his country of residence, often again with the cost and time for repeated journeys to the electorate. So what we're actually doing is giving two bad choices. This could have been acceptable in December 2019, as part of the necessary consensus. But today we are here to be wiser, having experienced, for example, a pandemic which has called into question the achievements of our generation, such as free or even easy transnational movements. I repeat that despite the fact that Greeks who are abroad have welcomed the resolution of No4648/2019, the majority of them, as shown by the relevant debate with the guests in the committee, have serious reservations about the procedures and the necessary bureaucracy it introduces. Moreover, the government's legislative initiative is largely based on the comments made in the consultation procedure of the draft law, which resulted in No 4648/2019. We therefore come today to lift restrictions concerning, among other things, the once-a-half listing of the electorate in the special electoral lists abroad, the replacement of the number of documents required with the voter's request, and the speeding up of the finalisation and approval of the voter's request. We reduce bureaucracy and make the process easy and short, possibly ensuring greater election participation. Unfortunately, during the meetings of the committee, but from what I see today in the House, the real political debate is about the right of Greeks to vote abroad, their dismissals and their relatives, as well as the procedure for the election of their representatives. I think it would be better, and even fairer, for our fellow citizens directly concerned with today's draft law, to focus exclusively on the contents of his or her orders. The question we have to answer, ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing, in particular, colleagues from the opposition parties who have not expressed their support for the draft law - is this: the lifting of the restrictions will facilitate the exercise of the electoral rights of Greeks abroad, without at the same time jeopardising the process? My view, Mr President, is that voting on the draft law will only have positive results. The restrictions that are being lifted are formal, bureaucratic and under no circumstances touch the real political debate on the vote of the homosexuals. A legitimate debate, we must do it whenever you want, but not now, on this legislative initiative. We do not need to harm the compromise that we achieved in 2019. I personally believe - and I close with this, Mr President - that at the end of the day we will have the opportunity to ensure that more voters have easier access to the poll. And more voters in the poll, by definition means more democracy. I call on all colleagues to support the draft law, even at the last hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou. And now, Mr. Dimitrios Ciridis is called to Stepma from New Democracy, who is elected to the 2nd North Athens branch. And Pontius and Macedonian! Here, Mr. Courides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. They have kept the words in order to hide the essence of the matter both at committee meetings and here in plenary today. I think we can all agree that SYRIZA's colleagues have served in a bad theatre, which is a fruit of the parliamentary process. You have no, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the courage to defend what you stand for and hide. We're here to reveal you. Say it clean. You do not want the Greeks who are abroad for any reason, for one day, for a year, for ten years, to vote for a government and their vote on an equal footing with the final election result. You want to limit them to two, three seats, to their corner and have no reason for the major. Deep down, you don't want them. You think that the more abroad, the better for you and your election result. You're talking out of the question. You've been giving us four days off the subject. We told you and we told you again that their limitations and problems are not that they are unconstitutional. They're not unconstitutional. They are not anti-European. They do not oppose the Convention and the Council of Europe. Another is their problem, understand it. They are paradoxical, not to say absurd, because they tell us that a Greek born in Greece, registered on our electoral lists, if it is abroad and has time and has time to take the plane and come to Greece, will vote normally, while, if there is no money or no time for alpha or beta speech, it cannot come to Greece, it will vote for two or three seats and will be a second-class citizen. This is the paradox of restrictions and their absurdity. We are not generally speaking vaguely about the family of millions. We are talking about the Greeks registered in the Greek electoral lists, who at any time can vote, if they want, within Greece and we want to give them the right to the era of globalisation, teleworking, the krone, the thousands of the two important things that are happening, to have the opportunity not to have to spend and vote from their place of residence. You're telling us about the compromise. We did, he says, a terrible compromise and you're very proud of him. Lie! You didn't want him to compromise! You dragged into the compromise two years ago because of the JRC, because the JRC shook up - to tell everything here - since there were two hundred votes and in order not to stay a bottle in the corner, alone and accountable to the Greeks abroad, you had to come and vote. You didn't want it and you fought it all the way. The Communist Party has forced you to come to this compromise, for which you are currently on the table. You tell us to apply the law. But the law applies and it appears that the restrictions are super-restrictive, that the restrictions are such that they do not actually allow Greeks to participate abroad. You are telling us another dreadful and incomprehensible one: 'indivisible'. You are now and against the party phenomenon against the parties. What do you think? Do you think that the Greeks abroad are a guild that will take two - three seats and sit in the corner or in Greek citizens with full rights and an equal vote with the rest of them? Since when do you on the left, to understand now, are you against the party phenomenon and the party competition? Because in your misfortune, confusion and ideological ideological pits you say incredible nonsense. To make it clear, then, and once, against party competition, there were historically the fascist movements of the Middle War who had a corporative conception of politics, who wanted to see the Vultures represented, some synagogues, some unions, some factories, some Greeks abroad, some scientists with specific seats, without competition. Is that what you're coming today to adopt? You don't know what's going on with you! You say 'the sitting will be useless, the two votes will not be held'. I say "historical the meeting, of great historical value, to finally reveal and fall the masks of those who falsely call themselves and have taken us decades and determine themselves as the progressive parade". We're talking about the culmination of the black reaction, the kojabaseids and Kojabasism - they're - they're - the closed, the introvert, the misery - against the power of Hellenism that always included the power of its dispersion. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The division of indigenous and heterogeneous is not new. It has been the newest Greek history since the Revolution. You now come and be redefined as the defenders of native ktsabaseids, the closed one, no matter how many others vote! I was a noble man. I'm not going to deal with Mrs. Jackrey's words. Maybe others are better off. I remained in the big one, the big one. Two hundred years after the Greek Revolution we can escape the division of indigenous and heterogeneous. We can turn a page and stay out of this false and reactionary division. You want the shutdown. You wanted it everywhere and always, not just now. When we tried to bring Greek scientists abroad to upgrade the Greek public universities through the boards of foundations, you fought Greek scientists abroad with nails and teeth, you built them, spit them out, kicked them out, burned them and sent them to fire the Greek public university, not to mention any and contaminated the Greek public university by the distinguished Greek scientist abroad and to stay closed, miserable, uncompetitive and ultimately not as good as it could be for the benefit of Greek society and its children. You're doing the same now. Don't hide. Here we will be at the end, revealing you. The Minutes will be left. You have a chance - and I close, Mr President - not to be alone because you will now be left alone in the vote and will not be accountable to our people and our history. Shake it! Here's Rhodes, behold, and what follows Rhodes! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u136	The next speaker is Mr. Skourikos Panagiotis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to speak before I speak on this important subject today, on the vote of the relatives, to stand on something that concerns both our relatives, our compatriots and our compatriots from all the lengths and backs of the earth that are likely to be watching us, because it is a matter that they are interested in. I would therefore like to mention a subject relating to culture, which is a strong link between the frustrations and Greece. Compatriots and compatriots, unfortunately the civilization in the days of the Mitsotakis government is being seen. It's been black days. We had the Acropolis cement. You heard they threw cement in the Acropolis, reminiscent of cafeterias, waiting to see the tables and buffaloes upstairs. It's a concrete throwing out the whole scenery, the whole Holy Rock. Whoever goes and gets up to see them, he'll understand what I'm saying. After this cementing, we have the cementing of the "EMPROS" theatre. The "Embros" theatre is a public area where for decades, over ten years, young artists who have no place to express themselves, actors, musicians, directors, choreographers, poets, present their work. Mr. Mitsotakis' government sent last Thursday a workshop and made the entrances to the theatre. He threw out the young artists, those artists who are inherited, who are not in the profession and want to show their work. He threw them out and peeped them. Of course, the concrete left because it was illegal. And that's because the building has been a preserved monument since 1989. So the pavilion of the Ministry came and found the illegality at the theatre "EMPROS". Still, the police didn't leave, it didn't stop illegality. They fell, as the cementstones said, because they illegally entered. So they entered with what permission, which services overseeing the newer monuments? There's no such permission. But the contractor came back on Monday when he passed over and put irons on us. At that time, Nassos Iliopoulou, head of the municipality party in the Municipality of Athens, showed up and threatened to sue. The police officer says to the contractor: "Go away, for you will be arrested." The contractor, having them lost by man, says, "But after you have brought us." Afternoon shift, I'm there, I'm present early. An officer who came, came, came, asked him: 'What do you want?' He answered: "I don't know, I now took a shift." I asked him, "But didn't they let you know? This is where the “EMPROS” and the cements are burning.’ He's gone. Soon he returns by saying: "There is an appeal for evacuation." We are saying: 'Get us the request'. There was no request. Who did the contract with? You want a culture and a citizen who is deadly, little, and shy. You won't have him! I apologise for taking this time, but we should, if we are told by the relatives, be told what is going on. Because, you know, the government has taken care of enough, through specific lists, so that a large majority of the media do not display things that expose the government. So I come to the vote of the homosexuals. Once again, we are in front of the classical legislative account of the New Democracy, which is trying to exploit communication and work on the revelation of Hellenism. The Minister of the 'never left', that is, always right - as if we had not always had right-wing and hard-right, as if the Greek people were happy about cases and periods that the Right itself had to apologise - Mr Vorides, therefore, and Mr Petsas, who is here today, are trying to implement the plan of the Mitsotakis government, thinking that they will turn the relatives into a electoral mechanism that will last for years for New Democracy at the wheel of the patronage. "Never left again," we talked about. We are watching pro-government media reports on the vote of the homosexuals, talking about a ready tank of eight hundred thousand voters, which will bring about a change of balance in the electorate. Dear and loved ones from the family, the New Democracy has you for sure. To "Thanasakis the beggar", the Study tells Thanasakis, when Thanasakis says to him "I have three thousand votes, here I have them": "Did you get a MP?" The study tells him: 'No'. "Hey, let them go home," he says. As other Thanasakis, then, the neo-democrats have the vote of the relatives here, in their hands. So New Democracy comes with this bill to show how he cares about Greek expatriates. The New Democracy is coming to tell us that it is a strategic objective for the democratic expression of the Greeks. The New Democracy is coming to tell us, through the bill under discussion, that it wants to bring our country's political life together, that it burns. Really, does he care about the relatives, like when he closed down ERT - SAT and the relatives had nothing to see about having any contact with Greece? Like when the radio station "The voice of Greece" closed? Like when he abolished the Subcommittee on Hellenism Istanbul, Imprus and Tenedos, which, after our own pressure, was established, but never worked, tragedies leave the Romans of Constantinople, Imbros and Tenedos alone? You live in the big crusades when you go to Fanari and the hypocritical sympathy for this part of the genus, the Greek culture. When did you care about the family? When you didn't do anything about the Greek school Munich? When with your policy the link between Greece and the homogenous communities was nil? Did you care over time when you sent the people out? The ones out, who sent them in '50s, '60s, '70s? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President, and thank you. Finally, as the events show, the New Democracy Party actually never cared about Greek homosexuals. All he wanted is to turn their vote into a electoral mechanism, saying to all Greek lies. Besides, Mr. Vorides admitted we were hypocrites. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance throughout his governance has implemented a structured policy and strategy that supported the Greeks of the Diaspora and exploited their creative powers. It highlighted the role of the family in the internationalisation of Greek claims and the promotion of the country's strategic interests, while strengthening the two-way relationship between the Greek communities and their homeland, consolidating the contribution of the Greek communities to the productive reconstruction and development of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Worm-worm-worm-worm-worm-worm-worm-worm-worm-worm-
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u139	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much. Ultimately, SYRIZA from the first moment spoke the language of truth. We want the relatives to have a vote and therefore, with the initiatives of the SYRIZA Government, a committee of experts was set up for the first time in Greece to implement this constitutional provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u140	Good. You're done, Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u141	Our proposal is that our compatriots should vote. We have tabled and heard our proposals. To conclude, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, how high you have the issue of the family has been revealed in the attitude you have taken in relation to this bill. You have shot your legs, you have reduced parliamentary procedures, you have deceived the Greek people and you are bringing about a change in a law that you have passed and you have never allowed him to remain in operation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u142	The next speaker is Mr Bluchos Konstantinos, and I would ask you very much to keep up with the time. Mr. Blucho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the first small and weak Greek state was created from 1827, one devil entered among those who embraced this social contract. The permanent residents of the sick state were then complaining, for they were not dominating their country. Because the Greeks of the inhabited inhabited world are good, but outside the barracks. Because the narrow country was only theirs. In the years of Otto it was impossible to reach agreement, because the natives even refused the presence of educated heterogenes in the mechanism of the new state. The years have passed, revolutions, conflicts and ultimately, a heterochths, Eleftherios Venizelos, come out of the fire of war, leads the triple of the country. Great idea and modernization of the Western type the road maps with which he went in exchange for the construction of the country. His opponents gave land and water for a small Greece, but not honestly, while his successors in the new Greek countries established an old Helladic police officer, teacher, priest, only to protest the controversial ethnic origin of the new Greeks. I referred to the devil of discord. I think that parallelism with today's debate is very relevant because, like the indigenous people at the time, they were asking for the power that was being evoked by a relative Zarifi, Varvaki, Sismanoglou, Moskov or Sakharov, so today we indigenous people are often looking for what Mrs Jackres very well described as a multiplier of power from the homogeneity, the defence of this beautiful - given - and a strange country. Ask for the power of the lobby and the Church, but when the power multiplier asks to have a say in the elections, in the government, in the parliament, the indigenous people see them as foreigners who do not live here and do not know our problems or as cowards whose vote cannot be the same as the indigenous ones. In the Theodorikos Law in 2019, we confessed by retreating, in particular, against our standing positions and decided that it is absolutely fair to be able to vote from their home place by a citizen who is already on the country's electoral list. However, we have also put some reasonable points on the left, restrictions. Here's a stimulus for participation in election events. Then, without openly explaining it, we insinuated it. That the right-wing immigrant won't be Uncle Gus in Astoria, who's been there for forty years. It will probably be some Wisdom in Berlin and some Costas in Amsterdam, more commonly young, trained, in contact with things, who left for study or a better life. The fictitious Uncle Gus will only have the right to vote if he is registered on the electoral list. Believe me that if Uncle Gus considers that he is not concerned, he will not even deal with the elections, nor will he feel the psychological pressure, nor will he give in to the micropolitical purposes and selfishness, as the JRC claimed, and let us want him to be a lobbyist or power multiplier. And then Mrs Jackson's statement, the confusion of SYRIZA, is followed by the surprise of Minister Vorides and the funnyness of the Great Opposition. It's a fraud to tell the "National Preacher" that every immigrant should vote without restrictions, which you imposed a few months ago before you in the government. It is an inappropriate convergence of components. Here's what SYRIZA means about democracy and analogue. On the other hand, it is an instability to claim to be democratic that the vote of the homosexual will not be taken into account in the final result, rather than that it will lead to the election of some Member States and others. You upset us in the constitutionality, you are rather the epitome of psalmology and of popular deception. From Ms. Jack and her statements to "National Preacher" as Mr. Katrugalos and his valuable artistic effort in Parliament, she mediates that masterpiece of Irish Jonathan Swift "The art of political psalmology". Ladies and gentlemen, while there will be collapses here, we, too, will be dissatisfied with the left-wing delusions and the Syrian deceptions. We will be proud of the ten million expatriates, but we will be glad to allow very few of them the opportunity to contribute home. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth asking ourselves what they want and what they expect of us. A closer relationship with the mother country seeks, a mutually advantageous relationship at all levels, based on rights and obligations, such as making the Greek diaspora part of the Greek mainstream. This should therefore also be our lasting political order. Finally let us stop striving to declassify our special identity. Let us stop demolishing our national trust and to the maximum extent the universal dimension of Greekism, which is a key axis of our self-confidence policy. Why seek those forced obligations that degrade the Greek self and which ultimately - whether we want it or not - is against history, universal Greekity and our particular self-determination? Our aim is to integrate and harmonize, not to alienate and rehabilitate Greece. The deficit over Greek ecumenism, along with its spasmodic inability to manage by our state entity, caused and continues to cause the disconnection of Greek self-consciousness and, of course, the development of centrifugal forces. The political retreat in recent times tends at least to begin to spell the language of the lost Greek inhabitant. In whichever collapse of national identity, it is obvious that the need for us to think like Greeks who we are, where we are and what we want. So it's a big bet and a bigger political order today. We need to get rid of the precursor party beds, which will seal our self-consciousness and amputate our Hellenism. Unless we really have a matter of self-recognition, unless we decided to end our history, unless the damage of the past is permanent and untreated. But that's how we kill hope. I personally believe that if something should be of concern to all of us, the whole of this House, it is only the Greeks' vote, whose last elections the secret abstention, to a large extent, of the electorate, has shown in any event the serious lack of confidence in our political system. To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beautiful and strange is the poet's name for our country. Strange indeed, because the division between a horrific, backward and dark Greece bathed in light, optimism and creation keeps well. And there you are, last night, darkness and zero, the refusal of the few natives to progress. You are the "little step" of the fraud professionals, who are engaged in the small and honest homeland. And it is the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis who takes steps out of misery and seeks our lost ecumeny and dignity. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. The next speaker is Christos Giannoulis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. I must admit that I admired the technical and writing excellence of my colleague from Drama, the chosen doctor Mr. Blouchos, but as Mr. Grigoriadis mentioned, to your last admirer, a singer of the 1960s, has written and melted the following: "Gregory communities make other galaxies." With you, however, the problem is that you are moving in a parallel, unknown universe. Listening to Mr. Voridis and then Mr. Ploris, I almost moved or believed that you are defenders of the parliamentary order, of the good legislature and all that. Then I remembered that Mr Vorides, who is being cut for the democratic rights of Greek expatriates, is the same person who institutionalises and changes the electoral law with the following paradox: with 43% occupying the 3/5 of a municipal council or regional council. It's a sign of democratic sensitivity. Also, speaking of parliamentary morality and order, it is Mr Vorides who, with an inflaming smile, broke his clothes against healing cannabis and at the time when the costing and militarisation of the party line and discipline came, voted 'yes'. If these are not contradictions, I do not know what else can be a contradiction. What is happening today in this Chamber, despite the problems, is that, contrary to what is actually happening, I cannot call it anything other than a parliamentary debauching and even extreme feasibility. You know that if there was no preparation and preparation for the crisis in this House, the majority of the votes required could not be guaranteed. However, you have caused and caused. You're hitting your head on the wall trying to pull a record. "We are the good ones against Greekism, and these are the bad ones", criminalizing in a cheap communication way, which Mr Vorides tried to withdraw from him, creating the "good" and the "bad" for the way the Greeks would exercise their electoral right. Of course, I understand why you are doing this and I will try to explain it without rattles, hysteres, austeria, what I saw and heard a few speakers ago. You need to compile this record of good and evil in an artificially dead-end parliamentary procedure, because you do not know what you will tell them what happened with the neighbouring country. What are you gonna tell them? What happened to the veto to be held on the accession process in NATO and the European Union for the neighbouring country? Why is the Prime Minister of this country hostage from the Samara fence and does not enter the parliamentary procedure the memorial to the agreement on northern Macedonia? What are you going to answer that for? You'll say to them: "Oh, you know, leave those alone. We ensure or have tried to defend the lifting of the conditions for exercising the right.' What are you going to tell them about the five hundred young scientists you spill crocodile tears about here in a hypocrisy crescendo? What are you going to tell them about the five hundred scientists you promised to invite from abroad once you were elected and instead send another four thousand young scientists, whom you have thrown out of public services and programmes? What are you going to tell them about what you have not done for two years now about universal Greekism on the five continents, about education, training and Orthodoxy, which is a consistent link for the survival of the Greek communities? Produced result zero. Communication, cuddish, narcotics, political lies, fraud and paralysing politics. All this, of course, is being assisted by some lists, such as - good time! - the present Minister of the Interior, Mr. Pecha. What are you going to say, really, to all those who had expectations of things that had to be done and now all you have to do is make an artificial attempt to make impressions with this today's process. The main issue we are debating today is our relationship with truth and lies, because you followed this practice long before the July 2019 elections. I have heard Mr Voridis, as a parliamentarian, haggling and saying: 'What do you want? Let me give it to you! What is it that longs for your soul?" That's not a political behavior. This is called political atrocity, and I don't know if it is, because he feels in his psychography a disappointment that he failed to inherit the political contingency of George Papadopoulos, as he attempted. However, there are serious issues of credibility, democracy and parliamentaryism here. I have heard many times invoke the actors, that the members of the family are asking for this, asking for the other, they have agreed on this new parliamentary micro-coup d'état. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Indeed, with regard to the actors at work, who have asked to stop your criminal effort at the work of small, medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed, who are quite rightly asking you not to go ahead with labour crime, will you accept their views? Will you have the same sensitivity as the one you are showing on the issue that we are discussing today? Are you, who are so good and really domiciled, seeking consensus and listening to public opinion, calling for those who demand that there should not be Mrs Keramos' training coup with the twenty thousand young people outside the universities, will you accept that? No, of course not. Mr President-in-Office, I would like to end by saying that Mr Voorides as the 'Robin Hood' of Antipoliticism, the inflamer with the inflaming smile, but in fact, when you want to test the resistance of the parliamentary procedure, you should be ready to answer some simple questions. Really, should Mr. Theodorikos not be one of the first to defend here this Step the change that you bring to the law of 2019? Where's Mr. Theodorikos?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u146	He'll talk. He talks later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u147	He should have been one of the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u148	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u149	He'll talk, but he should have been one of the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Giannoulis, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u151	I shall conclude, Mr President, with two questions I have, seeing those present. Because we have heard many good words about parliamentary morality, honesty, dignity, parliamentary order, democracy, about how much we must love and serve society and homeland, we have heard many misunderstandings about the fact that you are the good ones and we are the bad ones, and I would like to ask two questions to two Members present. First of all, Mr Petsa: At last, is there an answer why, on his infamous list, were Mr Furtiotis inside, who is currently in charge of the Koridal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Giannoulis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u153	And the last thing, Mr President, and I'm closing with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u154	It has nothing to do with the bill now! Are you asking questions? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President. Are we entitled to an apology - and it is not personal - by Mr Yiannis Loverdos for what he said about the tolerated, perhaps, abuse of a woman in relation to how good a father can be?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u156	Good, Mr. Giannoulis. Finish here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u157	These two are in line with the parliamentary morality and dignity of the Couple? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u158	Mr John - Michael Loverdos from New Democracy has the floor now. Mr. Gikas, Mr. Zempilis, Mr. Ljupis and Mrs. Jack, will be followed, and the fourth cycle of speakers will be completed in a natural presence. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to follow Mr Giannoulis' example or the categorical one in which he is found. It is his deadlock and staff and SYRIZA, who do not want to deal with the real issue we are discussing today, which is the bill, because they have no real arguments to say. We have heard many and disgraceful designations, such as that Mr Vorides is an unspoken, or that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is making a mess. That's what everyone thinks. This is a very serious bill. This bill concerns the vote of Greeks who live abroad. It is a decision that New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis have taken for too long to bring this bill, this big change, institutional change, bring it and vote. We took a first step in December 2019, with L.4648. It was a law that, in order to achieve the vast majority of the two hundred votes, was certainly the result of a political compromise. We weren't satisfied. I personally wasn't. I said that, and then. I would like more bold reforms to take place, but I understood the necessity at that time. We had to take the first step, cross the possibility for Greeks living abroad to be able to vote from the country in which they live. A new opportunity has now been given to the government of Mr.Mitsotakis, Minister of the Interior, Maki Voridis, to bring in a new law that removes these restrictions that were set in 2019. It is a bold initiative, which I should like to ask why - to incorporate and accept all of Parliament's wings. That, I can see, can't be. When I went to school many decades ago, forty years ago, I had a classmate. This classmate is called Paul Alivizatos. When we finished school, Paul left for abroad, where he studied and developed and became one of the leading scientists in his field and today, a few months ago, he was elected Rector, Chairman of one of the largest universities in the United States, the University of Chicago. When this was announced, we all said, and that's right, good for him. He's a great Greek who honors us at the end of the world. Paul Alivizatos does not know if he maintains Greek citizenship, I do not know if he wants to vote, I do not know if he wants to be registered on the electoral lists of our country, but we, the Greek political system, forbid it and want it. Because he lives forty years abroad, because he does not submit a tax declaration to Greece and I doubt he has any property in Greece. So in this great Greek, Paul Alivizatos, we refuse to vote for his homeland, as in many other great Greeks, we deny that right. Why are we doing this? Because SYRIZA doesn't want to. Why doesn't SYRIZA want to? I think most of the speakers have confessed to it - Mr Skourikos and Mr Ragus, the parliamentary representative - that the election outcome will be changed. That's what they're afraid of in SYRIZA. That the vote of Greek foreigners will be mainly in favour of the New Democracy and therefore their chances of returning to power will be reduced. That's why they do it, there's no other excuse. That is why they do not want to count the Greeks' vote on the overall result. This is understandable on their part, because they see it all, as the Left always does, with bumps and tights, 'how we will do it now'. Our purpose is not that. Our purpose is not to win the next elections. Our aim is to enable Greeks abroad to be part of our entire country, our nation. Give them the opportunity to participate. That's what we want, and that's why we bring today's law. To be able to great Greeks, such as Paul Alivizatos, I mentioned earlier, to vote. What happens in the next election will be seen. I am sure that the New Democracy will win them again and without the vote of the Greeks abroad. After all, I saw yesterday, and I understand your panic, the latest poll, 'ALCO', which gives 13.2% difference in favour of the New Democracy. I sat down and looked for it. There is never before in the middle of a government mandate, in other words in two years, to have happened before. Never before, instead of reducing the difference between a ruling party and an officer's opposition party to grow. It's never happened before. Not even in 2017 in the middle of SYRIZA's term of office. Now it's for the first time. And why is this for the first time? Because the Greek people trust better than Mr. Tsipras and the other leaders of the Opposition Kyriakos Mitsotakis and rightly. So the next elections, which will take place in two years from now, will bring back the New Democracy, which will now have overcome the great problem of pandemic, to power. Not because he wants the New Democracy to be re-elected, but because this will be more useful for the progress of our country and for Greek citizens. Above all, it does not matter who rules, but who governs for the benefit of Greece, for the benefit of the Greeks, and that is what the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u160	Next speaker, Mr Gikas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u162	You have the floor until the Step is ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u163	I have asked for the floor, because this is where the Members of the New Democracy are conscious of a certain distortion of the reality and of the law they have voted on. We can talk, we can talk, we can confront. What can't we do? Corrosion. What's the distortion that's going on and the law? If, he says, there are preconditions, he is prohibited from joining the electoral lists and from banning the right to vote. What do you think? Is that right, Mr. Pecha? It's not like that. Who forbids? We are talking about criteria to facilitate the exercise of the right of residence, not a ban on admission to electoral rolls and the right to vote. This can't be done. And it is systematically done by the Members of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u164	Good, Mr. Gioka. Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when this debate started in 2019 on the vote of the impoverished Greeks, the New Democracy had a clear time-consuming position: that all the Greeks who are elected are entitled to vote on the electoral lists of the country, and indeed we discussed the possibility of a letter of vote. Of course, the two-thirds parliamentary majority forced us to come to a political compromise in order to achieve even a few of what we wanted. This political compromise was nr.4648/2019. It was a two hundred eighty-eight-eight-member law, but it did not receive approval from the emigrant Greeks. In fact, many of them have said that the state is treating them as second-class citizens. So everything was rolling even so, when suddenly about a year and a half after the law was passed by the Department of Police Response, Mrs. Jack, in an emblematic for the demigrant Greek media, the "National Preach" in an interview she said, in my view, the self-evident thing. What do you mean? That the restrictions imposed by previous law, Law 4648, are unfair and degrading. With this statement by the relevant department, it suddenly appeared that the two largest parties, of course, and the rest, but at least the two largest parties, are converging on the question of the vote of the deceased Greeks. That is why the relevant Ministry has taken this initiative to bring about a law that removes these restrictions. It is something that the community of the demigrant Greeks wants, something that the Communism wants and many other parties. What were these limitations to remind me of? One from the Greek Parliament should have completed two years in the last thirty-five years in the country and submitted a tax declaration in the current year or the previous year. Immediately - a large part of the Greek was excluded from voting. And there, when we thought and seemed to be going to a new convergence, we saw SYRIZA in committees and in plenary - obviously a trailer of micro-political logic and intentions - to retreat. But here, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Response, we have a golden opportunity. We have in front of us a law that with two hundred votes we can bring him into effect. It is a law that speaks of the equivalence of vote and the removal of restrictions. It is a position which the party of New Democracy and the Greeks have been fighting for years to bring to the Greek legal order. Let me make a distinction between so-called 'immigrants' and 'immigrants'. Of course, they are immigrants who have been gone for many years, have had children abroad, have made their lives, live there, have been incorporated with the lifestyle of the country where they live. On the other hand, however, they keep faith and love to our homeland, our religion, our customs, and sometimes come to visit the ancestral homes. Bad lies, few of them will return to the country to stay again. But there is also the new generation, the second category, the new generation of migrants, the phenomenon of Brain drain, the economic immigrants, who have left in the past twelve years because of the crisis. So, what do we say to these people we want to bring back? We're upsetting them once more. We tell them that "your vote is not equal to the vote of the Greeks of the country". If a man who lives in New York, who lives in Germany gets permission from his job, to get the plane to go to his constituency to vote, the vote is counted on the election result. What difference does one who wants to exercise his right in the country in which he lives? And, badly lies, people who will deal with the electoral process are people who keep in touch with the country continuously, watch the events, watch the political situation, fight. It's not the majority, you know. So we have to make it easier for these people. So we are given a very important opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to lift the restrictions imposed by the previous law, a product of compromise, and to bring in a new law, which has the ultimate approval of the Greek community, is more reasonable and I think it adds, does not remove. Ladies and gentlemen of Officer Opposition, I invite you not to see the tree, but to see the forest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u166	Mr Athanasios Zemplis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today an emblematic draft law with a special symbolism for Hellenism is introduced to Parliament, particularly on the anniversary of the two-year anniversary of national regenerativeism. If we were to attempt a concise reflection on the historical course of these two centuries, we would end up with the correct observation of Professor Oxford Stathis Kalyvas that "the route of modern Greek state is characterized by disasters and triumphs". To speak schematically, I will say that we had disasters and defeats when self-isolation, introverty and division prevailed. On the contrary, Greece grew up and was strengthened, when it was united and mainly when it was based on the radiation and the greatness of universal Greekism. Especially nowadays, in a period of geostrategic instability and uncertainty, we need the strong and active diplomacy of the Greeks of the diaspora. In this direction, we must strengthen relations with the emigrants and, above all, make them social of the challenges facing our nation. In order for this to happen, it is essential that they participate in the top democratic process and in the political dialogue, in which they will surely bring best practices from their countries of residence, contributing to the escalation and modernisation of public life. There is no doubt that a first step was taken in the previous legislation on the vote on revenue after forty-five years. However, this was a legislation of compromises and low expectations, the success of which required its amendment to remove the restrictions. It certainly did not cover the perceptions of our prolongation, which believes that the characteristics of our nation together with the power of the family and its great dispersion should push us in the very opposite direction, that is to say the universal letter vote. On the other hand, the Accuracy Antipolitics, with a different worldview and view of the role of the nation, faces with lightness and populism such a critical and serious issue. It is characteristic that SYRIZA, who was talking about rights and open borders, now stands up walls and stands fences, weakening the political rights of our nations. This emerged in the process of hearing the bodies in the relevant committee of Parliament, with all the homosexual associations appealing to opposition to support the changes being made. Representatives of the major communities in Europe, America, Australia have called on all political forces to lift the restrictions that separate voters from Greeks abroad. "We cannot be foreign to Greece and abroad", as they said. We must therefore understand that the whole issue is on the one hand a matter of national survival and, on the other hand, a question of equality and democracy. National survival because in critical times we should only count on the power of our soul and our unity. Aggregation of powers, conscientiousness and understanding are the weapons that will allow us to continue to record small and large victories. And now let us also come to the issues of equality and democracy. At the beginning of 2019, I read a statement from SYRIZA about the constitutional review entitled “Because above all it is a matter of equality and democracy”. For the time being, I thought it was just analogous or a vote of the homosexuals. However, I found, more carefully read, that the SYRIZA Department of Migration and Refugee Policy called for the revision of Article 102 of the Constitution, in order to add an explicit reference to the electoral right of foreign immigrants in local government elections. This position was already known. But what about constitutional safeguarding the vote? That was too much. It is certain that I am not entitled to claim equivalent sensitivity to Greek expatriates, that is, Greek immigrants. I believe, however, that I should be allowed to borrow the comprehensive and appropriate title, in order to put it under the heading of this draft law, because it is, in fact, "more than all of it is a question of equality and democracy", an issue of equality and democracy for the Greeks of the hostile, who have translated the values and ideals of Hellenism throughout the entire world. A question of equality and democracy for patriots who participated in all the democratic and liberating struggles in our country. A question of equality and democracy for Greeks who have not even stopped fighting abroad for our national laws. A question of equality and democracy for patriots who rushed with fundraisers to help the firefighters, earthquakes, our undignified fellow humans. A question of equality and democracy ending the seven hundred thousand of our compatriots, scientists and young people who were forced to leave the country in the stone years of the Memorandum Crisis. These young people look forward to this draft law, seeking to remove the restrictions to keep the ties alive and integrate them into the democratic and political becomes of their homeland, with a view to gradually reversing the migratory current, especially now that teleworking, digital technology knows no borders. To conclude, I would like to point out that today we are called upon to take a historic step, greater than the deterioration of time. We have the moral obligation and historical responsibility to keep Hellenism alive in the communities of abroad. We must listen to the appeals of our compatriots, who have heard loud and narrow in this building from the ends of the world, that is, that their love for Greece does not fit in nine-digit tax register numbers, nor in tax declarations, nor does it fit into E9 declarations, because, as Kostis Palamas said: "The greatness of the people is not measured with the acre, with the heart being measured with the blood". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Law 4648/2019 was and is of great historical value. Already since the 1975 Constitution, the right to vote for the Greeks of the diaspora had not been provided for. With the 2001 Review, Article 51 of the Constitution, it is explicitly laid down that Greeks outside the territory may vote by written vote or by any other appropriate means. Forty-five years this possibility has been deafeningly inactive since the necessary legislative initiative has not been taken. Indeed, following the intense migratory flows that followed the economic crisis in 2009, the debate was not only about Greeks of the second and third generations, but also about a huge number of young people who left massively abroad while they had been born and raised in Greece. All these have been forced for economic reasons very recently and have a clear view and picture of the modern Greek reality. In the final analysis, this public dialogue resulted in the adoption for the first time of the Greeks' vote abroad in December 2019, with a bill recommended by the Government of New Democracy and voted in favour of almost all of the Parliament. Of course, this law has emerged as a set of compromises in order to obtain the necessary majority. Conditions and limitations have been set, such as that the elector should have proved to have lived in Greece over the last thirty-five years for at least two years and submitted a tax declaration in the year or the previous year of his application. These dividing lines that differentiate some Greeks of the Dispersion vis-à-vis the rest were never a desire of the government. It was the product of a dialogue with the other political forces in the framework of the search for a common ground of agreement. The dialogue was reopened following the initiative of the Member of the Officer of Official Representation, which was publicly achieved against the restrictions that have been imposed, and even promised that such restrictions will be lifted in a future SYRIZA government. The Minister for the Interior, aware that there is a common will with the Major Opposition on this issue, took the initiative of proposing this draft law. The aim is to eliminate the conditions and restrictions so that all Greeks on the special electoral lists are able to vote in national elections from their country of residence. Of course, it proved that the original political position of the SYRIZA MP was rather a statement - a fireworksman, since the subsequent attitude of the Anti-Population Officer once again highlighted the serious inconsistency of words and actions. The Minister for the Interior, until the very last moment, has sought to reach agreement with all the political parties. He even agreed today to withdraw today's bill and open the debate on a new basis with the opposition parties, under two natural conditions: that the right to vote will apply to all homosexuals, without restrictions, and that the vote of the Greeks abroad will be counted on the final election result. The uncompromising attitude of the Officerate is that these votes should not be taken into account in the overall election result. We cannot accept that there are different votes of the Greek citizens. The debate is no longer about whether Greeks from abroad should vote. This has been solved definitively. After all, the Constitution explicitly demands that the MPs represent the Greek nation, not only the Greek people. They should therefore be expressed by the vote of all Greeks, wherever they may be. Let us not forget that as a nation we are scattered over the four points of the horizon. Nothing makes us stayers on the ground more Greek than those who are far away. In fact, at the committee stage, all the representatives of the family stated clearly that the law as it stands is difficult to implement for a large number of voters, especially that it excludes a huge number of Greek counterparts in Melbourne, Germany, Sweden, France and America. A number of representatives of the federation associations supported the vote of today's bill, in order to give equal rights to Greeks abroad who are unable to return to Greece to exercise the electoral right. But there is another dimension. The new generations of Greeks, who have migrated over the last decade, must not feel disfellowshipped. They are more than four hundred thousand Greek women and Greeks who are still part of this great family. It must be clear that whenever homeland wants to come back. The famous Brain Gain, for which we are all talking, is no longer a theoretical concept. It must be based on specific methods that will give incentives and keep the channels of communication open with the Greeks of the Diaspora open. Today's bill gives further emphasis to the efforts of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the leadership of his Ministry of Interior and the ensemble of his Government to keep the flame of Hellenism, the Greek language, religion and culture on all lengths and backs. At this critical time all the political forces take the blame of their decision, a historic decision, with an impact on the new generations of Greeks growing abroad and being an integral part of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. Mr Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, do we want or do we not want Greeks to vote abroad in their place of residence? Let's leave the pretexts and the escapades. That is the only real question in today's debate. Indeed, the facilitation of the vote of the Greeks abroad concerned Parliament in December 2019, with the vote of No4648/2019. That was the first step that guaranteed this issue and it was the result of a compromise between the government, which proposed the unobstructed vote for everyone, and for parties in opposition, which put restrictions and held in their hands the key to the required two hundred votes. With those data, the existing regulation is an important achievement. If we had not succeeded in that political constituencies, any debate today, even in the next period, would have been irrelevant. Since then, of course, we have expressed hope soon to widen the scope of the law. However, since the unavoidable exercise of the electoral right a year and a half ago has not been achieved, is it not time for the matter to be re-established today, as some people say? Not at all. What's happened since then? First of all, our position has been vindicated that the more restrictions are placed so shrinking, participation in the electoral process is cancelled for some. The second and even more important that emerged was the interview of the relevant sector of SYRIZA in a homogenous newspaper, in which she described the limitations as unfair and disgraceful and pledged that her party would cancel them, if ever - "instantly just," she said - returns to power. Most have understood the above position as a pretext. Even so, the government did not have the right not to exhaust any chances of lifting the electoral barriers. It would show inconsistency and would justify false reliance that the relevant restrictions were introduced into the law or even maintained under the responsibility of the New Democracy. On the substance, we must reiterate that this is not about granting the right to vote, as many of our fellow citizens believe. It is simply possible for our compatriots, who are registered on the electoral lists, and if they were on the day of the elections in Greece they would vote normally, to do so in elections abroad. So why should any restrictions be placed on one way or another? The objection that people who have no direct interest and real interest in the policies being implemented should not reconcile with their vote and are certainly not responding to existing regulations. What is, then, the extent of interest justifying or denying the right of each Greek to participate in the political developments of the place? The 50, 200 or 2,000 euros from renting a field or a flat? Is this an asset link? On the other hand, when thousands of internal electors do not go to vote, others, meaning their abstention as disapproval and others from indifference, did we here squeeze the level of connection with the country of a man who goes to Australia to vote for the elections in Greece? This debate is therefore exclusively about access for voters to the ballot. Artificially, SYRIZA is attempting to expand, broaden its subject matter. He deliberately packs it with other issues, to justify his unwillingness to enable all Greeks abroad to vote. Let us remember what their representatives told us in committee: 'Don't be afraid of us. Respect us." However, I would like to use a last example, also to the anger of those who are today resisting this development to bend their resistance, perhaps. Recently, ladies and gentlemen, I met in Athens with Noula Happiness, the founder of "EFTYCHIA PROJECT", an organization that aims to help children, who in the 1950s and 1960s were adopted by foreign parents in America, the Netherlands and other countries and are looking for their Greek roots. Mrs Noula was one of the four thousand children who were adopted at that time abroad. But she has managed to reunite herself with her physical family and since then through the organization she has been trying to help other our adopted compatriots who are looking for their origin. Greece that cares about has an obligation to help these people, whose difficult conditions have been eradicated from their homeland, but not from their souls, to regain their Greek identity and to recognise them Greek citizenship. The SYRIZA rapporteur referred previously to the recognition of citizenship. You know what, though? These people, who, after decades of ago, have the agony and desire to come home and find their roots, even after, as she said, a self-righteous rendering of citizenship, would not directly meet the requirements of the current law on the exercise of their electoral right abroad. Who really has the right to deprive them of that? Therefore, today's debate has nothing to do with why or how, only if we want to enable Greeks abroad to participate in the political life of the country. This is a question of universal Greekism, in which there are no micro-political purposes. That is why, even at this very hour, do it over and vote in favour of it, expressing your reservations. Only to win would you have had such a responsible attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u172	We thank Mr Constantinidis. Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis has the floor now from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, how important SYRIZA gives the Greeks abroad is seen by looking at the list of speakers. It is just eleven - twelve speakers of SYRIZA on such an important issue, which concerns Greeks abroad. The first conclusion I think is already made by the Greeks abroad with regard to the SYRIZA side. Nevertheless, I remember that a lot of ink had been spilled from the means that supported the SYRIZA - ANEL Government for the equalisation of vote, when the then government, the SYRIZA - ANEL government, in 2018, brought the draft law on simple analogues in 2018. Likewise, we had heard statements here in the House from the then governmental MPs about how important each vote is and how important it is that we ensure its equivalence, by exorcising the enhanced analogy, and by consciously choosing the insolence at that time. We have heard the same during the reform work of the Constitution. I believe it is our acceptance that, in liberal democracy, the opinion and therefore the vote of all citizens is equal, without limitations or asterisks. However, the vote cannot be negotiated, nor can it, of course, be phased out to serve party purposes or ideological strangles. We must also be in agreement on this, without 'yes, but', without asterisks, with no remains of micro-participation in our opinion. That is why I cannot understand the behaviour of SYRIZA colleagues and their reactions to changing the vote of the deceased Greeks we are discussing today and I think that not only do our fellow citizens, who, for reasons of economic or family, live abroad, but all our Greek citizens within the borders, have the same feeling. Because it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday, that SYRIZA's Interior Department, Mr.Jakri, promises through the "National Library" to lift all restrictions on the vote of the deceased Greeks and when, of course, SYRIZA comes back to power and the next day, which the Minister of Interior presents in Parliament, that SYRIZA turns a hundred or six hundred or thirty-six against Tsipras - I do not know how they have mathematics there - and then reject this proposal. I think it is rather awkward to assume, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that the initiative of the Ministry of Interior found you unprepared. And what's your excuse for the negative attitude? You say: OK, we fight the criteria for registering the results in the special electoral lists, but it is not possible to vote for them to have the same weight as those of the country's residents, to compensate for, not to affect the result from the Xenomerian Greeks. Are you serious now, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Is that what you want for the Greeks abroad? So let us see the big picture here and say things the way they are. Here the Left must clearly define what it means to the Left Greece, what Greek citizen for the Left means, what it means to the Left Hellenism. For you Greek citizens are only those who live within the borders? The left of internationalism, of the non-boarders, does that really support? Come on, get up here in Step and say it clearly. You cannot be cut off for the rights of every Afghan, every Somali, every Pakistani who lives in the country and want with fast track procedures to have the right to vote and decide for the government of Greece and on the other hand for the Greeks abroad to consider them inferior, whose vote is not even equal. Is that ultimately the internationalism of the Left? Anyone other than the Greeks? Even you, who were allegedly every word of the Constitution, have seen anywhere in the Constitution mention that the Greeks' vote must be weighted or that it is not equal to where they vote? That is the essential question, and that is what you need to answer clearly. Because your attitude is completely hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. What does it mean to weigh the vote of the Greeks abroad? Should we also put social or class criteria to count the vote on the final result? Because you are actually doing this now, since the one who has the financial capacity to buy a ticket and get the plane and come to vote, his vote counts normally, while the one who cannot buy the ticket, his vote cannot count equally if he votes from his place of residence. To thank the Left of the poor, the protector of the poor! Clearly speak! Anyway, what does it mean that they don't know what's going on in our country? So, your friend or relative, Mr. Katrugale, and I am referring to you as rapporteur, who lives in Thessaloniki and can ask you about the problems of North Athens or Messinia, where you were previously dominated, does he know more than your friend who is abroad, in Canada, who, with the same comfort and convenience, communicates with you and knows precisely the same things as your friend from Thessaloniki knows about his country, North Athens or Messiah? One has the right to vote while the other's vote is not equal? Why? You have brought us as an example that countries such as Portugal, France or Italy are using the closed system and that their practice is the best possible. And I'm telling you they're not the only ones. There are other countries in the same system. However, only Portugal has chosen not to count the vote on the total internal result, unlike France and Italy, since the votes on the revenues are counted, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and in 2006 elections in Italy, the final election result was affected by the Italian vote. So why not follow France's system or Italy's system better? What are we afraid of? What are you afraid of, gentlemen of SYRIZA? You told us that you wanted the democrats to choose their representatives from a single list, without a party character, because you do not want to party to the Greeks for the sake of national unity, the left of the division, the left of "we finish them or end us". Let us accept that you have changed your mind about the division, but what you say about the emigrants and the single list where you saw it? Did you ask the emigrants? Did you find it in another country than you brought us as an example of best practices? No, of course, because in any case the choice is made through the parties mechanisms of representative democracy. We know, of course, that your ethical advances from Marx to Lenin and the "State and Revolution" always lead you to the abolition of parliamentaryism, but restrain yourself, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Your enthusiasts and your statements about the joints of power know them, the Greek society knows them, and the antiquated Hellenism knows them. Finally, things are very simple, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We in the New Democracy - and the Minister immediately told you - have said so, since we agree on the need to remove all measures which make it difficult to involve the revenues, we are prepared to accept and compromise your logic of electoral fraud. We are prepared to discuss all the details, provided that we agree to the overall election result on the self-evident, democratic, constitutionally guaranteed parity of voting and of counting. We will not play with the acquis the right of our compatriots, our relatives, who have found themselves, sometimes and without wishing, abroad, to claim their right to a better life, to participate with their vote equally as all Greeks in choosing the future of their country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u174	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u175	And since the soul of your own proposal is the possibility of expressing the results, as the SYRIZA rapporteur has said very well, you find the courage to give them this opportunity and do not hide behind your party interest. For once in the political life of the Left, on the anniversary of the two hundred years of independence, do not deprive Greeks abroad, who from national regeneratives but from all the struggles of the nation have contributed in every way to their homeland, their doubtless right to vote equally for their country of residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u176	Mrs Theodora Jacquez from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is at a historic turning point, at a point where after ten years of continuous economic crisis it seems to have poored, not only economically, but also in terms of human resources and alliances. In fact, there are three periods of time in this trial. The first lasted from the end of 2009 until the beginning of 2015, when the democratic party received a universally undermined national and bankrupt economic country. Who was the perpetrator of this bankruptcy? But, of course, the New Democracy. The second period starts from the beginning of 2015, that SYRIZA takes over the country's governance and, thanks to his policies and the hopes of his arrival, we have a direct halt as an annihilation of the new migratory current, which cost the country more than five hundred thousands of scientists and skilled craftsmen, while at the same time we have a gradual reorganisation and relocation of economic sizes in the best. Since the final exit of the country from the Memorandums, in 2018, and the fall of the SYRIZA government in July 2019, a toxic and similar quality to the one that bankrupt the country forehead, an iron division of great interests, manufacturers, bankers, canals, grandparents, grandparents leads with weapons of patriocapacy, trade in development illusions, and the fall of the SYRIZA government and the return to the forefront of the people and practices as well as the mechanisms that went bankrupt the country, but also to a new horizontal degradation of the economic and social background of 90% of the Greeks. In the last two years, in other words, following the election of Mitsotakis, the final regime has literally exhausted the EUR 37 billion dowry that Alexis Tsipras handed over and, after he now applies SYRIZA's policies to national and foreign policy, and after he has depleted the limits of any upgrading to the public health system, the SYRIZA government has succeeded in managing the pandemic which he has done and done, he has brought us, two years after the start of the third period, on the side of a de facto bankruptcy and a supersupervative and anti-sustaining distribution plan of tens of billion euros, whether they come from the Recovery Fund or from other European resources. What do I mean when I say 'excessive distribution design'? I mean the faithful implementation of the neoliberal doctrine 'the richest and the poorest', because these tens of billions will take all of them and seven hundred projects, of which five hundred are foreign interests. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made this brief introduction, because I want to briefly describe the situation in which the debate on the right of Greeks to participate abroad in the political life of the country began and evolved. Let us see what has really happened in this matter. In 2018, the government of Alexis Tsipras opens up the issue of the participation of Greeks abroad in the national elections from their homes, in the context of the debate on the Constitutional Review, and recommends a targeted and sustainable plan of nationally beneficial participation of the Greek Dispersionism in the electoral process. What did we propose then and to which we insist to this day? The granting of a universal right to vote to Greeks abroad, in order for the dissidents to vote for their representatives from a single, non-party, voter and to send it to the Greek Parliament as their own unfavourable voice, as national parliamentarians and not party interest, who will ensure that laws and solutions are developed in order to solve the long-standing problems of the Hellenism of Dispersion and to effectively reconnect it within and outside the borders of Greece, by gaining millions of economic, scientific and ultimately development allies in the post-mortem era. This proposal by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance found the New Democracy party to it, which never wanted anything but the work of the deceased Greeks. It is, moreover, the same fact that for decades and decades it has forced millions of Greeks to emigrate. And where did we end up? New Democracy recommended in November 2019 a distorting and incomplete legislative framework, which led, as we had warned, to a deadlock and the Greek political system and the Hellenism of the Dissociation and above all to the Government itself, which by its very nature cancels or cancels any possible reform does not serve its narrow party interest. And we, because we are a progressive force and we are not a force of zeroing and repression, voted at first, believing that any first step - with all its imperfections - is preferable to the perpetuation of the nationally harmful alienation of the deportees from the political life of the country. Today we are having a second debate in two years and legislation on the same subject. What we are negotiating today and discussing is a worse bill, ladies and gentlemen. Anyone who believed that the Theodorikos bill is the worst thing that could happen today is faced with the even worst bill by Mr.Voridis, which actually brings back to Parliament's room the original and silky harmful intentions for the nation of the government, that is to say, to convert the representatives of the deceased Greeks into party MPs, who will be designated and elected on party lists by the Greeks and who, in turn, will be assembled as parties rather than as national forces. We, ladies and gentlemen, now that everything has been made clear and understood at the end of the world, will insist on our proposal. We will vote against Mr. Voridis' bill and we will reset the bar high and unnegotiable. We shall vote for our proposal, namely that the democracies, without any restriction, from a single and non-party list, should elect four electoral regions abroad, as you have allowed, together with KINAL, the relevant provision of the Constitution, so that we can bring to this Chamber a demanding and independent MEP and not a few other party Members of Parliament. In conclusion, Mr Voridis, I would like to address you personally and to say that as much as you have used, as much as you tried to find, consciously distorting the truth of our positions with this bill, because you have only introduced it, you will be recorded in the political history of our place as a double harmful Minister: and as a minister who has managed to harm his party and the nation, effectively depriving the prestige of the Greek state between the newly formed electorate of the deceased Greeks, but at the same time as the Minister who has "maken" and "cooked" a sense of vagueness about the right to vote in their own descendants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Good luck to you, Mr Voridis, because you will soon be registered as one of the main cause of your long stay in opposition! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u178	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mrs Alexopoulou, Mr Kumoucos has asked for the floor for a minute. Here, Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u179	For thirty seconds, Mr. President. I heard SYRIZA's "Syriza", Mrs.Jakri, and his manifesto "other words to be loved". It has not been raised at all on the subject under discussion and has presented a general political text, but it has had some inaccuracies and I have asked for the floor to make it clear. First, he said very conveniently that the SYRIZA government fell in 2019. There's a fall, he says, of the government in 2019. No, you missed the election. No government has fallen! It was the people's mandate to change government. Secondly, he said that Mr Tsipras opened it when two projects submitted by the government of Costas Karamanlis and by the government of Antonis Samaras, who did not take the 2/3 majority, had been taken over by the two-thirds. This selective memory, this "lobotomy" policy cannot be repeated. We're kidding out here! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, the bill says, Theodorikou. The bill that all political forces agreed at that time suddenly became "the Theodorikos bill". Our position is clear. We said since then that our ambition was another and that it was compressed because of the political realism that was imposed by the time and now, based on our position, that our ambition was another, that was the reason and the reason Mrs Jackie herself gave in her interview with the "National preacher" has brought the debate, the government's obligation to bring the new bill. From there on, it is obvious that this is a very difficult political position for SYRIZA in general and for Mrs Jackres in particular. We don't have to say anything else, but we don't have to distort the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u181	Come on, Mrs. Jackrey, what's the staff for?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u182	But to me, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u183	But, I beg your pardon, neither insulting words addressed to you nor falsified, I believe, one of what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, give me the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u185	In addition, he made some political assessments. From there on, I honestly tell you that there is no personal matter. So you don't have the floor. And now I will give Mrs Alexopoulou the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, after giving the floor to a non-parliamentary representative, but to a rapporteur from the New Democracy, you must give the floor to me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u187	But Mrs. Jackie asked me to speak, Mr. Katrugale. When Mrs Alexopoulou concludes her speech, I am very pleased to give you the floor. I did not refuse to give the floor to you. Here, Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. I - in introductory terms - "I've whipped" a little earlier because you gave the floor to Ms. Jackie in my position, perhaps I was saving her from the very difficult position she was found in, because other things she said, the Minister said to her 'okay' and now she says other things and she is in a difficult position not to vote on it. I said maybe he could get in that position and say it. Today, then, we have the historic opportunity to prove in practice that the Greek nation is a united and indivisible nation, that the Greeks are not differentiated according to their place of residence, nor are they determined by any other criteria, except by their soul and hearts, which always belong to generations whole, at home. The great migratory current of the 1960s as well as the waves of fleeing the last decade pushed a large part of Hellenism abroad. In every corner of the planet Greeks work very hard, advance, build families and houses and move the Greek soul to the ends of the world. They keep home memory, language, traditions and customs alive, create powerful communities with an active role and a reason for local communities and economies. The need to maintain tight ties to the Hellenism of the Dispersion seems self-evident. However, it is really necessary to do so, in fact. We need them because, as a country, we need to face two major challenges, in which Greece, beyond Greece, can make a maximum contribution. The first is demographic and the second is the economic recovery of our country, especially if we consider the thousands of young educated scientists who have had to leave the country in recent years of the economic crisis, so that they can value the qualifications and knowledge they have usually acquired in Greece. Now that the end of the pandemic is approaching and the country is preparing for the great jump forward, we must facilitate the contact of the impunities with the country, to show them in practice that they are an integral part of it and its powerful weapon for development and for the future. That is why we must allow them to be part of the decisions and choices, part of the electoral process, part of the Hellenic Republic. We need a coup d'état of Hellenism. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has since the first moment wanted to act to facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad, a constitutional check which was not actually implemented. The existing 2019 law was clearly a first step of broad consensus, but at the same time it was the result of significant compromises and discounts that removed us from the New Democracy's original ambitious vision of brave lifting restrictions. It was, however, politically possible at the time, the beginning of a route, at the end of which we should have given the Greeks of the Diaspora a right to their time-consuming request for their effective and equal participation in the decisions of our country. And that is the aim and the concern of legislative intervention in the head of the Ministry of Interior and they deserve many congratulations to the Ministry's leadership. The broad acceptance by the consultation bodies and the huge number of signatures in favour of this bill by Greeks abroad show that we are doing something well. The new digital reality now enables the Greeks everywhere to be fully up-to-date and to have an in-depth view of what has been said in Greece, to have a political position and an opinion, can easily carry out economic and other tasks and maintain constant links and contacts with their partners as well as their partners. At the same time, Greece's rapid digital transformation facilitates every transaction with the state, every process and communication. It is not, therefore, possible with this data, to remain restrictions and impurities in the exercise of the highest democratic right of the electorate. It cannot be registered on the electoral lists, having VAT, paying taxes, but not being entitled to vote or make this procedurally complex and dissuasive. It gave me particular impression - and I would like to convey it - a point made by a German fellowman in the debate on the bill in committee, which I think is an extremely indicative matter for reflection: If the Greeks who live in Greece were to ask to travel to a polling station away from home, after having gathered a large number of documents and certificates, how many of them would finally vote? Nor can I comment on the major opposition I read, that Greek foreigners have no say, for example, about pensions, because they do not concern him, as he receives pension from another country. That is not declining, and so I am not going to call it that. It is not possible to reassure such a type of sloppy argument in an attempt to find something, somehow press to avoid a vote, and at a time when important members of your delegation are in favour of lifting the restrictions, calling them unfair and disgraceful, and at the same time saying that you will lift them as soon as you come to the government and fight for it. But you don't have to fight, just vote today. Is it, in the end, just a chance for you to have a micropolicy, or do you think what you say within the country is not being learned outside the border? Report irreparably, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to our compatriots abroad. Your right, of course. The Greek Parliament decides on national defence issues, on foreign policy, economy, culture, tourism, justice and, of course, on every Greek and every Greek, wherever they may be. That is why the right to participate in the electoral process with the same ease, shaping the course of the country and the nation as a whole on every issue. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to do our duty to our emigrant compatriots, finally ensuring their right to vote without conditions and without fine letters. We must show them by voting for the bill with an increased majority that the Greek Parliament does represent all Greeks, wherever they are home, is elected by everyone and decides for everyone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call on colleagues from the Anti-Population Committee not to sacrifice the good of Hellenism on the altar of micro-communism. It is unacceptable to turn your back on the Greeks abroad. It is unheard of a Greek party to vote 'no to the Greeks'. We vote 'yes to the Greeks', 'yes to Greece', 'yes to democracy'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u189	Good. Before giving the floor to the next speaker and until the Step is ready, we give Mr Katrugalo the floor for a minute. I think time is sufficient. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed matters that I could raise in my second language, as I intend to do, but in the case of arms equality, since you have given the floor to the rapporteur and friend Mr Kumucako, I will respond only to one of the things he has said. It is not a question of competition at the time of tabling a bill, but to explain why we are saying that we have taken the initiative more seriously to promote the issue of the vote on revenue from you. Firstly, we put it as a proposal for the Revision of the Constitution, without which we could not even have the law, and secondly - and more substantial - there were, in the past, legislative initiatives, either as a government or as an opposition on the part of the New Democracy. We were, however, the only government to set up a legal committee in the Ministry of the Interior, with the participation of not just our party members or actors, but independent experts, in order to have a proposal that would meet all the demands of our fellow citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the last sentence, Mr President, with your tolerance, was precisely in the context of this explanatory statement which we referred to in the constitutional views of Mr Gerapetti, who gave an answer to the constantly repeated question by New Democracy colleagues: 'How can the vote of foreign voters not be taken into account in the outcome?' The phrase which I am going to read to you is the third alternative proposed by the Committee on Human Rights, which has as rapporteur Mr Gerapetti, and which says: it starts with the result that, if there are elections outside the country, it will not be counted for the election of the electoral measure at the ground level. It won't be taken into account. And how does that explain? It says that the institutionalisation of representation in states with a large number of non-territorial candidates is an optimal practice, which defuses the consequences of the mass involvement of non-nationals in the national elections and prevents concern that an extensive erosion of the electorate will not unduly affect the election result.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u191	Finish, Mr. Catrugale, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u192	So don't ask Mrs. Jackie. Mr. Gerapetite ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u193	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u195	What for? What do you want, Mrs. Lionel? I'm so sorry. Mr Kumoutsakos made an intervention after Mrs Jackson's speech, putting on these issues. As far as I am concerned, Mr Katrugalos replied, he was placed and I think he would end up here. We will not now open a whole cycle of special speakers and rapporteurs. They discussed a number of issues that one party or another raised and concerned these two parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u196	These two parties were not concerned, Mr President. You decide whether to give us the floor. However, it was not about the two parties that said about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u197	Mr Anastasios Publicakis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u198	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the New Democracy, in displaying the soundness, the spirit of consensus and agreement with the political parties, has, as it had been promised in the run-up to the election, implemented a just and deep democratic demand for decades of Greeks abroad, the Greeks of old immigration, but also of the youngest, the well-known Brain drain, young scientists because of the economic crisis, who have migrated abroad and have been diffused and with whom we need to reconcile their return conditions. The process of participation in the national elections was regulated by Resolution No4648/2019, elections to the European Parliament and any referendums by the voters on the electoral lists of the country, but on the election day they are unfortunately abroad for any reason. However, this legislative initiative was a first important step, but not the end of the road. From the outset, our proclaimed ambition was and remains the facilitation of participation in the electoral process to cover all the voting rights of Greeks abroad, without restrictions, without additional criteria, without bureaucratic burdens. But the necessary parliamentary majority under the Constitution unfortunately did not exist to make our ambitious proposal acceptable. With a sense of responsibility, in order to ensure as far as possible, a compromise was reached with the other political forces which had objections, objections and denials, a political compromise marginally unacceptable but not satisfactory, which did not enthusiasm, but rather troubled the Greeks abroad. However, the conditions and political connections have changed because of the change in the positions of Officerial Opposition, which said so out loudly, that the existing restrictions are unfair and disgraceful and that once they take over the country's rule, they will be abolished. We don't have to wait until then, gentlemen of the L.A. officer. Today is a historic opportunity to send a strong message of recognition and essential unity of the nation to all Greeks abroad. The legislative initiative tabled, Minister, abolishes restrictions, obstacles and discrimination. It is proposed to abolish the conditions for the stay of two years in Greece over the last thirty-five years and the obligation to submit a tax declaration in the current or the previous year, as provided for in the previous law. These restrictions are insulting. This law stipulates that voters wishing to make it easier for them to exercise their right to vote shall be included in the special electoral lists abroad. The modern Hellenic Republic will do its duty by regulating and definitively guaranteeing the ability of all Greeks to participate and interact equally with the Greeks within the borders the historic route of the nation. Our homeland needs new foreign children as much as ever and we must not be definitively removed from the country's events, especially from the operation of democracy and even the leading act of it. We want them to function as ambassadors to our country abroad, to be charitable to our national issues, to assist in the effort to rebuild the country's economy, with a view to strengthening ties with all universal Hellenism. As the Head of the Hellenic Republic of Greece, I argued that the utilization of universal Greekism was a mission of the Greek state. Since 2016, I have stressed that our main priority should be the participation of payees in the commons of our country. The granting of the right to vote, without bureaucratic impotence and preconditions, is not merely an obligation of the State, but an unequivocal right and an indication of the modernisation of the Greek state. By acknowledging the micro-participatory purposes, at the same time as my position at the time I stressed that the organisation of Greek democracy is required on new bases. The current government and the State Secretary for the Greek Democratic Republic of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are working in this direction. The democratic Hellenism, organizing communities and scientific associations, building schools, churches and cultural centers, grew up without forgetting the inextricable link with the mother country. Ladies and gentlemen, this year, when the two hundred years anniversary of Independence and the Revolution of Genus Freedom, let us stand up to our circumstances and constitutional obligations, enabling the nation to co-operate and sum up forces against the modern challenges facing the country. Let us make use of the years before us working hard so that Greek and ecumenical Hellenism can make a new and hopeful start. All together we can improve what our ancestors gave us. Come with us, don't let the country become a decay and a small one. We want to raise Greece. You want to narrow it down. Our differences are great. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. Mr. Christos Dermentzopoulos has the floor from New Democracy, with which the fifth cycle of speakers is completed in the natural presence and we will begin the next cycle, the sixth cycle of speakers. Next speakers, following Mr Dermenzopoulou, are Mrs Papakostas - Paliuras, Mr Athanasios Davakis, Mr Constantopoulos and Mr Kyranakis. I read the first quarter after Mr. Dermenzopoulou. Mr. Dermenjopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in December 2019 we took a big step. With Law 4648/2019 we made it easier for Greeks who live abroad to vote from their home country. In other words, we have strengthened the links between the Hellenism of the Diaspora with the mother country, as the rapporteur and colleague Mr Kumucasos rightly said. An unfinished state that has existed for years, a provision of the Constitution that has never been implemented, which begins with the Constitution of '75. And in '86 and 2001 there were attempts, but because of micro-political purposes they became fruitless. An obligation, not only for the election of the New Democracy, but a duty for all of us, democratic, institutional, patriotic, for Hellenism throughout the earth, which, in order to make it possible, has displayed a consensual climate. A cross-party committee has been set up and we have also retreated from our original position in order to make it possible. Our initial position was self-evident: All Greek voters from abroad, without any restriction, without any exception. The restrictions came from other political forces, but our goal was not to let the opportunity go lost and to achieve the required majority of 2/3 of this House. After all, it was a fair request for decades of homosexual organizations. The law, then, provides for restrictions that we are now called upon to abolish. Of course, those who refuse to do so are also called upon to explain to thousands of Greeks why they impose limitations and bureaucratic burdens, namely the two-year stay in Greece over the last thirty-five years and the obligation to submit a tax declaration in the current or the previous year. In the new bill, the changes focus on the following points: the additional criteria, which are a prerequisite for the inclusion of stakeholders in the special electoral lists, the Directorate for Elections of the Ministry of the Interior decides to accept or reject their application in the special electoral lists abroad, and the special intergroup committee entrusted with the work to examine complaints concerning rejection decisions on the special electoral lists, to check specific requests at the request of a member or members of the committee, as well as to verify the requests received. In conclusion, therefore, these restrictions must be abolished, because you simply do not go too far. It has been noted especially in recent years how important our country's international image is in a number of challenges. Challenges such as the economic crisis, migration, Turkish provocation, the coronary pandemic. Do we have the luxury of glorifying our country's ambassadors? It is our obligation and it is our comparative advantage to activate them even more. Does anyone disagree that their greater, more active involvement can give us positive results in foreign policy issues or even in areas such as tourism, with a huge impact on our economy? But let us be honest. There are no reasonable arguments in the opposite direction. There are only micro-political interests. A few days ago, ladies and gentlemen, a column of a Greek university professor, who said that Turkey has been spending millions of lobbies in America in order to create an influence in favour of its positions, and we are talking here about how much and the issues that may arise from this process of strengthening ties with the Greeks of the earth? So today's debate is a great opportunity to settle an injustice of years and we will all be judged by our attitude. It is, ladies and gentlemen, another opportunity, however: to restore also a distrust which prevails in a large part of the world for political parties and politicians, that some are wearing, making promises, but, when they come to power, they are doing differently. I do not think I need to mention examples, as everyone knows the most recent, the traumatic course for our country of governance SYRIZA, how they came, what they said and what they did. I cannot, therefore, mention how this debate has emerged. In order to make possible and adopt the relevant law with the necessary majority of the Constitution, then, with the demand of SYRIZA, restrictions were imposed on the right to register in the special electoral lists. Then, in her statement, as a pre-election proclamation, SYRIZA's relevant department said her party is now in favour of lifting the restrictions on the right to vote for the Greeks of the Diaspora, in fact promising that they will be abolished as soon as they return to the rule of the country. So, having such a clear position, our government has correctly submitted to Parliament a bill to remove restrictions and we call on SYRIZA to finally do what it announces, even offering him the opportunity to do so earlier. If he does not do so, however, unfortunately, it turns out that, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have not learned anything. You have not realised that citizens are earnestly seeking, but also the most important, which is also the core of today's bill: they require unity and participation without restrictions. And these demands are met by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and calls on all political forces to do the same. He's voting for today's bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u201	Thank you to Mr. Dermenzopoulou and to the economy in time. We shall now give the floor to Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Papura from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in today's extremely firm and self-evident amendment to Law 4648/2019, which will free the electoral right of the non-Greek voters from within Greece, a reasonable question arises, an unequivocal question: Who really fears the vote of the Greeks? Who is afraid of her and, if she is afraid of her, why, for what purpose and for what purpose? How long will the parties and therefore the ideological priorities prevail on fundamental issues and rights, such as, in this case, the exercise of the electoral right or, rather, because we are already living in the year 2021, facilitating the exercise of this right? We are therefore moving on to a deliberate and self-evident amendment of the law, to a fair change. Our difference, of course, with the Major Opposition today is that in December 2019, we did not want another opportunity to be lost for democrat Greekism. We have therefore respected the necessary need - and maturity - for that time to be a national consensus. However, our position has from the outset been clear and clear: To facilitate the exercise of the electoral right of non-Greek voters, with the result that the Constitution itself calls for the election result to be measured on an equal footing. SYRIZA, on the other hand, strongly and politically supported a horrendous, paradoxical form of oxymoil: The voter who lives abroad, if he votes in his place of residence, can elect three to twelve MPs, without affecting his vote on the distribution of the rest of the seats. However, in the event that the plane gets unpaid leave from work, it is spent for a journey it can be more than seventeen thousand kilometres away - such as Melbourne - and ultimately vote in Greece, its vote at that time can affect the distribution of the two hundred and eighty-eight to seventy-seven Members. It is worth pointing out, however, that during the legislative process, the need for specific constitutional arrangements on the above matter was raised by the committee at the time. I intend to give another thought. Some of us are Greek children. Some of us may have children living and working abroad, children studying in our country, excellent scientists, who, either with the scanning wave and the result of the economic crisis or before, have sought more appropriate living and working conditions. Where integrity exists as the foundation pillar, where conciliation, strife and rosphetti do not exist - I translate - Greeks and Greeks who have found themselves to be the other way of operating the public administration than the one in our country. They have the experience of outside Greece and on the basis of these recruits they will vote for a better future in their country. We have heard so badly that it is repeated by the opposition rhetoric as follows, that it will allegedly be decided by the Greeks in Detroit, Frankfurt and Stockholm on what taxes the Greek taxpayer will pay and what pensions he will receive, as if he would ever receive a pension from his country. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that it is a great deal of expatriate who submit their tax declaration to Greece, who maintain VAT and property and perhaps some of the younger people never receive a pension in their country. But they have parents, relatives and friends who care about them and about their future here. As you know, I don't really believe, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officer, that he really is concerned about this, but that you know deeply within you that the Greek who lives abroad knows another person on the Left, who in the end, in the midst of pandemic and especially its exile, would not protest for any chief executive, for any architronomists, would not protest in favour of the conquests and men of lawlessness in the universities, risking public health and benefiting its opposition status. So the Greek with this different perspective in politics and social life, which would not consent to the irresponsible attitude of "debate" in everything, without any suggestions, with micro-political perspectives, is clearly not the political audience to which you are addressing and seeking and possibly supporting you. So, first and foremost, I shall refer to the basic principles for us, which do not allow us to take a step behind them. First, the exercise of a full right by any citizen registered in the polls who wishes to vote first because he is Greek and there is no reason to restrict that right. Principle 2: Balance in the vote. The constitutionally guaranteed equality to vote, without separate the Greeks from the Greeks who live in his country. Principle 3: Repeal of the conditions of the meaningless and unjust conditions for the exercise of the electoral right. Starting fourth: we are facilitating the removal of the above barriers - and I call them this way, because all the institutions that were called upon to be placed, as insulting and undermining criteria for exercising this right, have described them - which ultimately result in a reduced participation in the intention of voting and link the constitutionally established and integrated right to vote with economic criteria. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that what we must not forget is that Greeks abroad always and not just the years of the crisis are active in all the professional, economic and social sectors of the country in which they find themselves, in areas such as science, technology, health, education and the economy. They are present everywhere and only to benefit from their homeland and constantly make it proud. These Greeks, Greeks abroad, love, support and believe in Greece. They obviously believe in a new Greece and all they do not deserve is to separate them from two-speed homosexuals, whose vote will not be counted on the final result, with unfair measures and weights, with political priorities and purposes. These, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, who fear the vote and the dynamics of these Greeks, are those with fireworks and air statements once again trying to adapt their rhetoric to what the public wants to hear. Only once again they failed and history will certainly record them and show them as inadequate and incomplete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u203	Mr Davakis Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, two hundred years after the Greek Revolution, as we celebrate it and under the conditions we are celebrating it now, in 2021, all the wings and colleagues of these wings should all have thought that a basic principle of national unity and all the elements that constituted the vision of the rebellious race, a race that revolutionised after having come from the revolutionary movement of Greeks, from outside the then center and from Greece, in the historical concept of space, would be to forge a sense of unity and all the wings without opposition crowns to assist the legislative initiative of this government in facilitating our Greek foreign, migrant brothers to vote. They must be able to vote without conditions and at the same rate of vote. Unfortunately, this did not happen once again, showing the tone of opposition tactics and officer opposition and other parties. We are being watched, as you have seen in the consultation and in the hearing of the bodies of non-parliamentary persons, all of our freelance brothers, all of the Greeks, and we are seeing the feeling that many times continue this prestigious disposition of our people for merciful purposes, for divisiveness and for all these things that often make up negativity on important things. With the end of the years we will see, and look for the Minutes of this debate, that the maturement of this fact and the legislative initiative to facilitate this government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, so that the Greeks, in comfort, as is the case in other states, can vote, this researcher will see it, I would say, inconvenience and the difficulty of the political forces, which have not been identified in this initiative. Really only bitterness can form. I believe that what the Mitsotakis Government has gone through is self-evident and given, and I would say that it creates a good prospect for what many colleagues have said from this step towards national unity, for the forging of a spirit of unity, a spirit of selflessness, beyond the parties' boundaries and party formations, a spirit of unity, and I would even say a spirit that now has more than ever before our country and our people. Getting out of this pandemic crisis, but coming out of a ten-year and more social and economic crisis, I believe that these legislative initiatives are reconnecting the umbilical cord of the Greek emigrants, the other half of Greece, which is outside the national trunk of borders, with today. But they also create a new relationship between all the Greeks whom the economic crisis forced them to leave the place for biopolitic reasons and we all know who they are. So you realise that beyond symbolism and beyond all those elements, which I believe we all know, which has this legislative initiative, it has exclusive and political elements, which have to do with national unity and with the formation of all those Greeks who, for many and various reasons, felt strangers to the internal political process. I believe that this initiative creates a new political practice in terms of both national unity and national unity, which means that Greeks, who are equally Greek and as necessary to the idea of national unity as are the Greeks, these resident people here, but also all those initiatives which are formed towards this idea, the idea of unity, the idea of the elements that have to be defined from now on in our homeland in the difficult times beyond the economic crisis, as well as the national issues that arise every time because of the foreign and Imperial logic of our neighbour. And I believe that this shows the maturity of this great People's Party which is the New Democracy, but also of all those forces which have contributed towards the idea and direction of this legislative initiative and I think that we will be judged by history as well. The opinions and objections and the petty, if you like, have been recorded. But the important historical initiatives taken in these two years of New Democracy's governance will also be recorded. They are legislative initiatives to which this major legislative initiative is added, which is the work of the Mitsotakis Government and the present political leadership of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u205	Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today the lifting of No 4648/2019 on the listing of foreign voters, so that the right to vote will be exercised in good time in Greek as well. It is a right which has a constitutional basis, namely Article 51(4), as formulated after the 2001 Constitutional Review. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it should be stressed that the institutional improvements brought about by the PASOK and the inflation article 54 have led to institutionalisation and the vote of the frustrations. I would remind you that since then a qualified majority of 2/3 of the total number of Members have been introduced to vote for the relevant law. I would also remind you that at that time the election right of non-territorial voters has been envisaged by letter or other appropriate means, provided that the counting and communication of the results is carried out at the same time throughout the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider, at least funny or even insulting, what has been said by a colleague from the Officerial Representation, namely the current in the Change Movement who wants to keep up with and collide with the New Democracy. This, of course, is due to the vote on this bill. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Change Movement, the PASOK, has historically deep ideological and political differences with the New Democracy. The New Democracy for us, for PASOK, was and remains our ideological opponent. However, I cannot overcome the fact that the vote on the Greek Democratic Republic was and it was a proposal I would say of crucial importance to the PASOK. The PASOK to remind constantly insisted on the possibility of voting on Greeks abroad over time. PASOK, the Change Movement today, a pioneer in such matters, has drawn up roads to then walk other parties. After all, the other parties, after they came to the path of logic and realism, followed us. And we arrived in 2019, which had grown up in society and the parties, and were given the opportunity to vote on Greeks abroad. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, after twenty years we realised that the Hellenism of the Diaspora ought to be and has a say and a view of the National Representation of their country. We have therefore managed, with Law 4648/2019, to give them access to our national Parliament, to speak and speak in seven hundred thousand Greeks abroad according to the figures of 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, when Mr No 4648/2019 was passed, it was voted with limitations, however, which we, the Change Movement, expressed in PASOK at that time. In fact, we talked about the obstacles, which today in this bill, which comes to the vote in the Greek Parliament, are being abolished, with a number of amendments to Articles 2 and 4 of Law 4648/2019, namely a law passed a year ago. That should worry you. In particular, the provisions of Article 1 of the bill are abolished for entry in the special electoral lists abroad. I mean, what? Here, ladies and gentlemen, the limitation - and this is the important one - of the two-year stay within the Greek territory over the last thirty-five years. Restriction of the submission of a tax declaration in the current or previous tax year shall be abolished. A number of provisions are also repealed in order to establish whether those conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time a provision is introduced whereby the elector at his request determines the non-territorial region, jurisdiction, diplomatic or consulate in which he wishes to exercise his right to vote, namely the right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement had been calling from the outset for the people to be able to vote where they are. We have constantly called for the right to be energized by the letter of vote, which applies to other European countries. That is why what has been heard in committee is not honoured and, above all, does not honour the Civic Opposition. The positions of the Movement of Change in the vote of the proven Greeks were and remain clear and crystal clear. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that all Greeks abroad should have the right to vote, all Greeks abroad, since they are, of course, registered on the electoral lists and on the polls. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we have stressed from the outset that it is necessary to update their registration with a statement to local consulates or embassies of the Hellenic Republic. Minister, we are experiencing the era of digital transformation, experience the 5G, experience the new data, new technologies. We therefore consider it necessary, Minister, to apply the letter of vote, by means of procedures which will, of course, guarantee its validity. As we also consider it necessary to create a single region of Greek residents from abroad, electing five to seven MPs and, of course, through the special lists of parties. With regard to seats, the seats thus occupied will be removed from the State ballot and from the other constituencies. Our position was and is the vote to count on the national election results as a whole, but not on the result of the national elections. We, ladies and gentlemen, believe in the deepest possible vote of Greek Democrats is a question of democracy and this must be judged by everyone in this Chamber as sound and not, of course, as a matter of a good de facto political view. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the bill should be passed. Because that is how we send out a strong signal to the Greeks that the House of Parliament recognizes them, respects them and does not address them by vote. Yeah, well, in the bill. Yes, in the capacity to vote on Greeks abroad. Why? Because we owe them that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The next speaker is Mr Constantine Kyranakis from New Democracy. You have the floor, Mr. Cyranakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, of all the arguments that have been made over the last few hours in this Chamber, but also outside of Athensis, the most outrageous of all is that SYRIZA blames New Democracy, because it brings, he says, the bill for micro-party and electoral reasons. That, in other words, the Minister has suddenly decided, seeing, supposedly, political developments, to make a change, which he does not trust, so that he can achieve a better result in the elections. Forgotten by SYRIZA and overall by the Left that, unlike your own party, the New Democracy has a stable position for over a decade. It forgets that in 2010 and 2013, in conferences with very great resonance and the presence of a crowd of family abroad, in two, therefore, conferences, it has been expressed since then, since 2010, precisely this position that we are coming and voting on today. It is forgotten that even when Mr Tsipras as Prime Minister visited the United States of America, New Democracy again expressed this request. He forgets that Kyriakos Mitsotakis as Head of the opposition officer had brought twice a law proposal to the Greek Parliament, rejected by SYRIZA, with the content of this very proposal that we are coming and voting today. It forgets that the first time that New Democracy, when we brought our election proposal, our election commitment and tabled it to all parties, so that there would be a joint proposal, not only did it not insist for purely electoral reasons, as you accuse it, but on the altar of consensus and with the intention of agreeing on the agreement of all the parties, precisely so that the New Democracy would not be historically viewed as exploiting such a bill so that it would allegedly have the benefit of the party favor of the family and the Greeks abroad, came and made a retreat. He came and made a retreat, adopting proposals from both the JRC and SYRIZA and Mera25 and all the parties to the opposition. So then, from the gappa - let me be allowed to express - the Sector of Greekism of your party, we come and do the same. I will not go into the substance of the arguments, because both the Minister and all colleagues have expressed them fully. I just want to describe a picture. All the children who left in the crisis, all the children who left from 2009, 2010 and then, faced a very tough reality. Who was that? That in their universities, in their workplaces, they were faced with stereotypes by their friends and colleagues from abroad, Europeans, at some point in the North Europeans, who were harder and who called them lazy, considered them irresponsible, considered them dangerous, even fraudulent at times, given the median image presented at the time in the northern states of the European Union. These children, who were forced to leave in the middle of a crisis and find a better future abroad, what did they do? They were giving an obscure and quiet battle so that they could overthrow this stereotype. They worked twice and three times as hard as their colleagues to prove that the Greeks are not only lazy, but they are the most creative and the most productive workers, the most productive in the companies, the universities and where they were. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] So to them, the missing heroes of this battle, to the children who left in the midst of a crisis - some of them are now returning, some of them are continuing and holding the flag up today - we owe them a great 'yes' to today' in today's vote. And to them Greece says: "We want you back. We want you to go back to your country. And in order to be able to get back to your country, we want you to have a voice and an opinion on how this beautiful country called Greece will be formed, so that by your vote we can make this country better." SYRIZA comes to these children and says a great "no". What matters, and I myself, through the Brain Gain initiative, of which I have the honour of being a founding member, is that, when we started five years ago, we had an attempt to get signatures for this very demand, which is being voted on today and I have the honour of voting today, we said there would be no great acceptance. Today this page has reached over a hundred thousand signatures. When the Left, the Communist Party, SYRIZA, the parties that traditionally create the illusion that they represent the people, may even collect for one idea, so many signatures, come to present them. I see and feel the loneliness that the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, has at the moment, given the persistence of his party over the past few days, to lift the measures here in Parliament, so that all Members can come, to be able to be all Members present in the proceedings, because the New Democracy allegedly takes the voice away from your members. To all your members, who are absent, Mr Katrugale, today tell them that today the New Democracy tells them a great "yes" in Greece and gives voice to the Greeks abroad, especially to the children who deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Cyranaki, there are the hundreds of thousands of signatures, but remember that there have also been referendums that have received more than a hundred thousand signatures. They don't always respond to signatures and everything, so let's be a little... Mr George Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I feel really lucky, proud, but also very honoured to be taking part in this sitting in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which recommends this bill to grow Greece, to prove to the world that the Greeks are not only the ten million who live in our country, but are also so many who live throughout the world and in their hearts that, in their minds, they are constantly thinking about Greece and are, of course, our allies, in the enormous effort that Greece is making to take the place that it deserves both in Europe and in the world. In fact, today's debate is two hundred years since the re-establishment of the modern Greek state, from the national regenerative state, and that should lead us all to think mainly about this bill of nationalism and not micro-groups, and not about micro-sciences. Questions are relentless. Do we want all the Greek women of the earth near Greece? If we want them, do we give them the same rights as the Greeks who live in our country? What do we respond to the Greek Dissociation, abroad, which is registered on the polls, and which, if taken on the plane or the train, will normally come and vote on the elections, do not give him the right to vote in the country in which he is in, thus participating in this sovereign democratic process and by shaping the political situation of the country he comes from, for which he believes, lives and breathes? Is this procedure something new, that is to say, voting for their country? Do we not have it in the national elections with the special electoral divisions of Carditsa that vote in Athens and regularly participate in the elections? Nor do we have it in the self-government elections for the Cardits, the citizens of the Municipality of Mousaki, who vote while not staying in Mousaki, and shape the situation there? In this sense, Greeks abroad should also be involved as an integral part of our country, as an organic part of Greece being involved in all these processes. And of course I can only agree with Mrs Jackson, who, when she went to the federation said that the Greeks of the Diaspora should vote without restrictions. And you did very well. It appeared, however, that this was only a verbal acrobatism at a particular audience, obviously neither Mrs Jackie but also the SYRIZA's party believes in this process and they are more than trying to revise their position in sins, proving once again that they are truly excellent in reconstructing. Of course I heard her talk about great publishers, accusing our resignation, as if she had not heard anything about Mr. Kalogrisa, as well as about the bill by Mr. Theodorikos, who has now become the law of the state by voting and by SYRIZA, saying that it is the worst thing that could, he says, happen in the country. But can they so quickly deny themselves, deny their vote, deny them the opportunity given by the Government of New Democracy, which came with a different proposal to the Greek Parliament and which, for the sake of synergy, understanding, cooperation and consensus, formed the bill as it was passed and became the law of the state after consultation with all parties? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that before us we have a great national and historical responsibility: to unite all the Greeks of the earth, to make them an integral part of Greece, to enable them not only to believe, not only verbally, but that they are truly co-formulators, rivals, but also collaborators throughout this effort, and even at a very critical period. You see the problems with our neighbor from the east. Once again we have to prove that Greeks are homogeneous, united and face any process in common. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate has started since 1975 after the restoration of democracy in our country, and then the Communist Party of Greece has taken the lead, so that the Greeks have a constitutional mandate to participate abroad in the vote and not to be a potential and simple one. This is what we are coming today to do with the bill brought by the Government of New Democracy and I would like to call on all the wings of the House to plead for Greece to be great, unite Greece, unite the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, in the hope that many will vote. With the'sympathy' that has existed, I find it difficult to see it. Mrs Stella Biziu, from New Democracy, from Larissa, has the floor. Do you, Ms. Bisew, and you're a lot of people living abroad? Know that the biggest city in Arcadia is Chicago! Remember that. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 'Do not treat us as second-class citizens. We are always Greek, whether we live in Greece or abroad. Always, whenever the country needs to be, we stand by it. The Greeks of the Diaspora are another Greece. The absurdity is that in Greece we are foreign, second-class citizens, and abroad we are considered Greek." This is the complaint of the Greeks of the family, which was expressed by its representatives at the joint meeting of the committee now, but also a year and a half ago in the debate of the bill in December 2019. For the second time in less than two years we have been discussing a bill of top national importance, because it is about the Hellenism of the world. We are talking about Greeks, who, for different reasons, are today outside the geographical limits of our country. And we will not get tired of discussing this issue until the permanent and time-consuming and fair demand of the Greeks abroad for a vote without restrictions has been justified. In December 2019, we took the first step and will not stop until we act on facilitating the right of Greeks to vote abroad from the country they are in. Our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has said about the New Democracy and it is a matter of central political priority, as our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has repeatedly said. Over the past one and a half years, the country has faced considerable challenges and difficulties: Turkey is causing us, violating and threatening our sovereign rights. Immigration is a lasting source of pressure, both because of events such as Evros's and through the management of what illegally entered the country since the years of SYRIZA's governance. Demographics are always here, a real and timeless threat to the future of Hellenism. We have neither the margin nor the right to ignore global Hellenism. The Greeks of the diaspora are children of our country and this triggers our emotions. But it is also a pillar of support for our national interests at every corner of the earth, and that triggers our logic. The New Democracy over time supports the facilitation of Greeks abroad to vote from the country in which they live. The previous governments, Kostas Karamanlis and Antonis Samaras, had tried, but had not succeeded with their proposals to gather the necessary majority in order for the vote to take place. The 2019 Act was the result of compromises and convergences in order to achieve the minimum. The direction was the right one, but the result was not the ideal one and it did not satisfy the family. After all, the representatives of its organizations have expressed it in every way. The right of voters to vote outside the country has been guaranteed since 1975. The debate today is not about broadening the electoral base, but about facilitating those who already have the right to vote. It is not possible, under formal conditions, to cancel this fundamental right of each Greek and any such attempt to cancel the exercise of the electoral right to expressly oppose the fundamental principles of popular sovereignty and universal suffrage. The state has an obligation to ensure as much participation as possible in the exercise of the constitutional rights of the electorate and, much more, it must facilitate those citizens who have the right but, because of circumstances, it is difficult to exercise it. This category includes citizens who are outside the territory. Law 4648/2019 was the first step towards the implementation of the constitutionally regulated right to vote on Greek citizens living permanently abroad. But it's not enough. As a product of imposed compromises, it contains restrictions that prevent a large number of Greeks from exercising their right. Today's legislative initiative solves most of the problems arising from the current law, abolishing restrictions that have been characterised - even by anti-population officials - as unfair, unacceptable and degrading. Over the last decade in the number of Greeks living and working abroad, at least five hundred thousand young people have been added, which the social and economic context has led them to immigration. All these Greeks, the best ambassadors of our country on the planet, once again have their eyes turned into this Chamber, because they have never ceased to have their eyes on Greece. These Greeks have the right to co-decide with us the future they want for themselves, the future they want for their children. And their right cannot be conditional on economic or tax conditions. Such discrimination is both undemocratic and biased and is incompatible with the guaranteed constitutional values of our country. Love for the country, concerns about the future of the country and the right to shape this future cannot be subject to reservations and asterisks. We have neither the right nor the luxury to distinguish Greeks from first and second-class citizens, and we certainly do not have the right to disconnect them from home. This bill is worth three hundred 'yes', ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u213	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Pericles Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill attempts to make an important, democratic part of the country's electoral process, because today we are discussing the removal of all the restrictions, all the bureaucratic obstacles, which prevent the Greeks from exercising their greatest and most important democratic right: their participation in electoral processes. In fact, I find it difficult to understand how a Member of the Greek Parliament can be in favour of the obstacles. How a Member may seek to vote less. How it can introduce bureaucratic obstacles to the process and how the democratic vote can seek to involve only some and not everyone. So let us be clear about what we want: we do not change the electoral lists. We do not give the right to vote on more. We do not detract from the Constitution and the electoral process. Ultimately, we do not introduce any new right, which concerns Greek citizens abroad or the Greeks of the Diaspora. We're doing the exact opposite. In other words, we guarantee the rights already in existence, which have already been founded and make it easier and possible to exercise the electoral right at the place of residence or stay. In other words, we facilitate and broaden the democratic process. All Greek women and all Greeks in whatever part of the world, respecting the letter and the spirit of the Constitution, which states: "The MPs are elected by direct, universal and secret ballot by the citizens who have the right to vote." Why is opposition conveniently forgetting that Greek citizens who are permanently or temporarily abroad are already elected? They do not know that they are registered in the polls and electoral lists of a municipality of the Greek state? Are they not Greek citizens, with all the meaning of the word? Why are they categorizing them to second-class voters and reduced influence? Let everyone know, however, that no one has the voters in his pocket. The Greeks who live or are outside Greece do not belong to one party or another. They're not right, centre or left. They're free Greek citizens. Each of them with an opinion, an ideology and a political view, which today can be one and another. However, all of them have inseparable ties with the country in which they may have left wives, children and relatives to whom they care, think, and worry. We are therefore not introducing a new right for these citizens, but we are simply making it possible to exercise their electoral right at the place of residence or residence, that is to say, to ensure its effectiveness, as is called for in Article 25(1) of the Constitution itself, which states that: 'All state institutions are obliged to ensure the unobstructed and effective exercise of fundamental rights'. However, if we are talking about civil rights and about the ordinary legislator. From the outset, the government has set the right framework for foreign voters. We have insisted that the vote should be equal, without limitations, and we have called for the possibility of a letter of vote to be given. The vote in foreign elections does not ensure the principle of universality in the best way, since those who live away from the cities are faced with additional difficulties in voting, while the letter of vote would enable everyone to vote in their constituency rather than in the State vote. However, we have retreated because we have focused on the substance of the reform and because we respect the requirement of the Constitution for a broad parliamentary consensus which would otherwise not exist. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you are aware of all this. Your officials found themselves in the circles of the family and felt it firsthand. I am sure they understood that the restrictions do not benefit, but are undermining the electoral process. They were told in a clear way by the Greeks who live there. So let's listen to them and let's leave the calculations and micro-political toys. The electoral process is sacred to the citizens in a democracy and it is our duty to broaden it as much as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u215	Thank you. Mr Spanakis from New Democracy has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill of the Ministry of Interior to remove restrictions so that Greeks abroad can register without bureaucratic or other obstacles to the special electoral lists and vote from their home place. It is a regulation that Members should support from all the wings with which they object, but they should vote in favour, because the substance of the regulation is only in the positive direction. The New Democracy is the party that over time supports and strives to facilitate the vote of all Greeks of the Dispersion, without limitations and exclusions. After all, restrictions and bureaucracy are always factors of opacity, inequality and injustice. And they were the governments of the New Democracy that each time took legislative initiative in this direction and were the current government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who, in December 2019, after a painful and persistent effort, managed to reach a consensus with the required majority of Law 4648. The facilitation of all Greeks abroad was a commitment and a key priority of the Prime Minister and did so immediately. However, Law 4648/2019 was only the beginning. The rest of the restrictions must be lifted. Modern technology provides us with all those tools and all the security folds and we cannot exploit it in 2021. It is only anachronistic that we should not give the Greeks this opportunity to participate in the supreme process of democracy. In the years of the crisis, a large part of young scientists, high-qualified people, left. All of these must be involved in the political processes. They are directly concerned and we want them to have a say and a step forward in expressing it, as they are the most valuable and productive part of the population. What are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen, of disagreement today? Do you not want to make it easier to involve our relatives as much as possible? We are a country that is very important and very close to family and is a firm but just and deeply democratic demand for the migrant Greeks. And it was unfair what was happening in the past, as only those who were able to move, that is - let us not hide behind our finger - only the most wealthy of the Greeks abroad. Is that what we want, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population? Do we want a two-speed dispersion? Like the massive movements of voters in the past, paid by the parties, were tactics that posed many questions about transparency. On the articles now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following: With regard to Article 1 in particular, as the second article stipulates the entry into force, the obligations and procedures placed on the electoral lists of voters on the day of the elections are abolished. As stated in the new regulation, voters wishing to make it easier to exercise their electoral right, in accordance with the provisions of this law, are enrolled on the special electoral lists abroad. They shall be entered in those special lists at any time at the request of the person concerned in accordance with the procedure described in Article 4 of this Regulation. Below, in accordance with the new paragraph 4 of Article 4 of Law 4649, at the request of the electorate shall complete his or her elements and identify the non-existing diplomatic region in which he or she wishes to exercise his or her right of election, while the new paragraph 8 of Article 4 is amended as follows: The application for registration shall be finalised by the decision of the Directorate for Elections of the Ministry of the Interior in accordance with Article 3 of Article 2. The request for change, suspension or deletion shall immediately become final. Ladies and gentlemen, Greekism is an integral part of Greece. It's our voice abroad, in all parts of the planet. They are particularly sensitive to our country's issues. They maintain customs and traditions. They have created important Greek communities. Thanks to modern technology they now have direct contact and information about what is happening at home. There are no excuses for obstacles and restrictions anymore. We have all the means to make it easier for all Greeks to participate in the electoral processes of the country. The political will exists and the New Democracy proves it in practice at every opportunity. This debate is historic and extremely political. It is in the hands of everyone in this Chamber to have a substantial effect. If you want, we send a message to every corner of the world where Greeks are located that the country is here. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are all here today and at the end of this process we will prove whether we have the interests of the Greeks above all or our small-scale interests. This question will be answered by the vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Bogdano from New Democracy, and we are ending with Mr Xenophonta Baraliakos, after Mrs Agerinopoulou speaks. Here, Mr Bogdano, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, why are we here today? We are here to speed up the declared desire and commitment of SYRIZA's Department of Deputy Hellenism, Ms. Theodoras Jakri, who, in the notorious interview he has given to the historical Greek newspaper "National Library" of New York, said that he is in favour of voting on "without terms and conditions", adding, in fact, that SYRIZA, if he ever again comes to power, as he said - I will be allowed to have a slightly different approach - will implement the relevant law. This is a law which, I would point out, did not dare the SYRIZA Government to bring in the five years that were in power, but which was brought to him by the Government of New Democracy. Indeed, any restrictions which are being discussed today and the conditions contained in his forecasts are mainly due to the SYRIZA, because otherwise he would not be voting in favour of it and the required majority of the House would not be assembled to take effect from the next elections. So here is Rhodes, behold and jump, ladies and gentlemen, particularly of SYRIZA, but more generally of the Left! Prove, even now, that your department manager did not simply go "fish" in the blush waters of the promise. Of course, the Greeks and Greeks at home, but also the dissident of the Earth, now know you well. They know very well what your priorities are and what your hierarchies are. We will put them calmly: they know well, for example, that SYRIZA in his ideological blindness - I am sorry, but only so can I interpret it - is cut off to render the privilege of the Greek citizen's status to anyone who asks it, no matter whether the applicant is really in fact linked with our country and nation. Unfortunately, SYRIZA is being cut off to extend precisely the country's electoral base with immigrants, which no one intends to stay, integrate or advance in our country, but simply ask for a European passport to continue their course elsewhere. At the same time, SYRIZA puts one obstacle after another, in order to prevent the exercise of the electoral right to Greek citizens with the identity and passport of the Hellenic Republic living abroad. In practice, that is to say, denying a constitutionally guaranteed, self-evident right to a citizen's right to be able to exercise his or her right to exercise his or her right of self-determination. Ladies and gentlemen, these are, unfortunately, the priorities of SYRIZA, which they share and the great part of the Greek Parliamentary Left, to vote for the future of the country, people who are accidentally, recently and wrongly located in our country, people who do not even know the language or elementary elements of our culture, people who do not want and, to say the truth, nor will they ever be Greeks and that many of them who, bitterly of the crisis of the last decade and perhaps even disgustingly by some of the five years of SYRIZA - ANEL - do not forget to forget about their fate elsewhere, but have sought their homeland in their hearts. Here too, I'm not interpreting, I guess. For example, see what he has done recently - something unthinkable - SYRIZA in Xanthi. He coincided with psalmist Ahmet Mete, an agent on the substance of the Turkish paradox, who spoke about an event of the "Muslim Turkish minority". In fact, even worse, the Turkish-speaking newspaper "BIREK" wrote: "The huge concentration of the Turkish people of Xanthi in favour of the Palestinian people organized by SYRIZA". Of course, we have not yet seen a statement from the SYRIZA members who have participated, much more than from the central party, that there is only a Muslim minority in Thrace and that we cannot cooperate, much less if we are the Civic Opposition, with those who are trying to introduce Turkishism. These are unacceptable things. Sadly, however, he seems to be SYRIZA! Instead of writing with the Greeks, it is written with those who generally renounce their Greek identity. The symbolism of the burnt flag and slogan of youth is here, either to serve Turkey's interests, which I do not want to believe, either because of a deep complacent attitude to whatever national or finally - and this is the worst of all, shallow and imaginary - simply conscious of votes. So, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I invite you to prove me wrong as to what I read, i.e. I invite you to take me out as a liar, I invite you to make me "wrong". And I invite you to do so by voting in favour of this draft law, which makes it self-evident: Just as it allows a hetero-democratic resident of Athens to vote from his place of residence for the region in which he is registered, in exactly the same way it facilitates the exercise of the electoral right to Greek citizens with Greek identity and Greek passports who simply live abroad, to Greek citizens who, if on the day of the elections, were here, could simply go and vote for normality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And he does, just as your head of department requested. We took the comet and as an effective government we bring the result, subtracting unnecessary terms and conditions. So prove, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that your rightfulness is real and not a disgrace, that you are not only cut off for the rights of others, but also, not primarily, for the rights of the Greeks and that this rightfulness does not enter into the rustled yoke of political destiny. However, because I do not want to'suck', I particularly address them and those of you - I see that Mr Katrugalo has said - to whom I know that, despite our differences, we are being united by love for our country. I know that in SYRIZA, a left that has Greece in its heart. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now, then, is the opportunity, now is the time to rejoice at the height of the occasion. Otherwise, I fear that you will be exposed to Greeks and Greeks at home and beyond the world, and, despite your personal patriotism, you will have sealed the political identity of SYRIZA today and here as far as the country, country and nation are concerned. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Bogdano. We are now continuing with Mrs Dionysia Agerinopoulou and we will conclude with Mr Xenophonta Baraliakos. Here you go, Mrs. Agerinopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are able to unite the Greek nation into a people, as the Constitution requires, with an equivalent vote for all Greeks, for Greeks in Greece and for Greeks abroad, for those who have migrated through difficulties with the dream of a better life in a foreign country and for those who have subsequently left as scientists and have managed to distinguish and translate the bright Greek spirit everywhere, for the first generation of migrants, but also for their children, for the second generation, the fourth generation of Greeks, who, although growing abroad, are and feel Greeks, because they are growing up with great love for Greece and because their support from their families also includes abroad where Greek education lies. Today's legislation introducing the lifting of restrictions to register on the special lists of foreign voters must all vote not only on the basis of the constitution, but also on the basis of the entire Greek nation. The Greeks are an integral part of the Greek nation and must be part of the Greek people. For this reason, we must provide for them to exercise their political rights without hindrance. This is the permanent position of the New Democracy, and it should also be the position of the other parties, because they are not allowed to invade micro-participatory purposes on such a major issue. Law 4648/2019 laid down the procedure for participation in the parliamentary elections, in the European elections and in the event of a referendum of voters on the electoral lists, but on the day of their election they are abroad. However, under the procedure laid down by this law, which was adopted in order, under the political circumstances at the time, to have the majority required by the Constitution, additional conditions were laid down to exercise the electoral right, as well as obligations to submit supporting documents. The conditions laid down and the bureaucracy that was objectively imposed make it particularly difficult for Greeks to participate abroad in the elections. In practice, most of these voters are deprived of their right to vote. It is no accident, on the contrary, but it is particularly important that all the Greeks continued after the vote on Law 4648/2019 to claim that these restrictions should be lifted in the exercise of their electoral right. We listened carefully to their views at the hearing of the institutions, heard their views in the media, heard their views in our homes, in our phones, in our e-mail. The Greeks, our friends, our fellow students, our relatives, on all continents, wherever they may be, are asking to vote equally and unreservedly, like all Greeks. As a Greek woman I have lived abroad for about a decade, I have experienced the love of the impoverished Greeks for the homeland, how alive the Greek identity is, how intense their thoughts are for Greece, but also for their special homelands, their villages, their homeland. The Greeks never lost their Greek identity, no matter where it was. They read about Greece, attend the country’s events, revive our country’s customs and customs in the foreign homelands where they live. They defend the national positions of our country, wherever they are from every point of view, from the traditional Greek restaurant to the headquarters of the parliaments in which they are elected. Greek Members of Parliament and members of the FAME remain and act as Greeks. They support the constant demands of Hellenism, they protest in their cities. They protest in their countries about Greece's fair demands. Sometimes they call them graphics, because they are more Greek than Greeks at one time, speaking metaphorically, because when you're abroad, you see Greece as ideal and you don't compromise. You see the map of your country, its photos, and you're tearing. And the younger generation of the Greeks feels that way. The children of the deceased Greeks, even in the pandemic conditions of COVID -19, lifted up the Greek flag and held celebrations for the two hundred years since the Revolution of the Greek nation in their schools. On March 25, 2021, the neighborhoods around the world filled Greek flags from the small joyful hands of the new generation of Greeks. For the two hundred years of the Greek nation we have to vote for this law. It's the biggest and most symbolic gift we could make in our country. Greeks are a great and inexhaustible power of Hellenism. The Greeks and the Greeks of abroad are creating a great Greece, beyond the borders, in globalism, as is the Greek spirit and the Greek soul. We are today voting for the unobstructed and unconditional involvement of all Greeks in the formation of our country's historic course in the future, in order to pursue and achieve together great goals for our country, all Greeks united, a nation and a people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. We are completing the process for today with Mr Xenophon Baraliakos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, last year we managed by a large-scale parliamentary majority, abstention of national consensus and unanimity, a major part in the parliamentary history of our country. The vote of the bill to facilitate the exercise of the electoral right of voters outside Greece was the first major and bold step. It was recorded as a milestone on the phenomena of the political life of the place, which came to correct an old unhealthyness of the Greek state. The introduction of rules and procedures to facilitate the participation of the offended Greeks who have an electoral right in the forthcoming electoral procedures is a task that we must serve with due respect and zeal. It is a moral obligation to safeguard a historic acquis, which was carried out not only as a pre-election commitment by the Government of New Democracy, but as a time-consuming request from the Greeks of Dispersion and National League. It is a major case, with real and symbolic extensions, which touches the heart and soul of the nation and is not allowed to be transformed into a strand of micro-party classifications, nor into a field of anodes and populist controversies. The adoption of this draft law reflects two important aspects of the issue. Firstly, it reflects the lifting of restrictions on the extremist Greeks and, secondly, their equality of vote. In simple terms, not to treat the Greeks as Greeks and as citizens of second selection. This does not concern any electoral arithmetics, but the necessary facility for these people, who are struggling for the fate of their homeland and who are struggling for their advancement, to vote without insurmountable stumbling, which ultimately makes their vote inactive. After all, the message of the representatives of the Greek Parliament at the meetings of the committee responsible for the drafting of the bill was clear, unravel and bronze: the right of the deceased Greeks to be equal to the rest of the Greeks. Full unanimity, no asterisks. By the way, I would also like to give the true picture of a distortion attempted this morning by the SYRIZA rapporteur. It was said that the New Democracy MPs did not support this bill. Mr Katrugale, with a simple look at the list of current and tomorrow's Members of the House who have requested and who will take the floor in favour of the bill, we can see that forty-nine of the fifty-eight-eight Members of the New Democracy, one in three, will be placed. At the same time, we note that only fourteen of the eighteen members of the SYRIZA, one out of six, will speak today and tomorrow. Finally, Mr Katrugale, do the SYRIZA MPs not agree with your party line? For we in the New Democracy, be sure, are united and revolved around the national line 'no restriction on the vote on redundancies'. These, in order to know what we say and not to have false impressions in the thousands of Greeks of the Dispersion watching us with anguish. After all, our prolongation has long been a pillar of the Greek Dispersion, since it has been listening to their justified indignation to exclude them from the official state and has been a consistent channel of this top request, culminating in the celebratory vote of the bill which established last year the escaping Greeks' vote and their right to participate in the forthcoming elections. And today, our position remains the same unscrupulous and we have submitted it from early in the public debate. No senseless restriction and no extra bureaucratic stumbling block for the exercise of the electoral right. On the contrary, facilitations at all levels and equality of vote. In the face of the thousands of Greeks of the Diaspora, therefore, the Civic Opposition must also assume its responsibility, which is caught in a game of micropolitical expediency. We also agree with Mrs Jacki when she told the "National Preacher" that the restrictions she had demanded last year are not just unfair and disgraceful, but also excessively insulting and show unjust fear to our compatriots. On the occasion of this statement by Ms.Jakris, therefore, the historic milestone that solved a timeless pending for the Greek state by voting by two hundred eight eight MPs to expand and strengthen, SYRIZA chooses to fortify behind his ideas and his micropolitical cubisms again. In the impressions game that vainly attempts to set up the Civic Opposition in order to justify the continuous changes in its policy on the issue of the vote on the frustrations, it irreversibly harms the national community. The alignment in the responsibility that the Greek Parliament had collectively shown is the only morally required choice. Otherwise, we can be explained by the Qualified Opposition because he fears the vote of the Greeks of the Dispersion and tries to make it inactive. It must take a clear and clear position, otherwise it is the only accountable to our compatriots, but also to history. Ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of the restrictions laid down in Article 2, as set out in Article 4 of this, frees the vote of the fraud and makes it strong and equal, like all other Greeks. Faced with the challenges of the future, Hellenism must move together and strong, beyond divisive rhetoric and dividing lines. This is timeless and unequivocally our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-25-S1-commons.u224	With the consent of the House at 20.52 the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday, 26 May 2021, at 9.30', on the subject of this House's work, is to continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Leaving restrictions on the inclusion in the special electoral lists of foreign voters".
