ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 8-12-2021 authorisation, the minutes of the MA's meetings of Wednesday, December 8, 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "Reforms in the legislative framework of the National School of Justice and other urgent provisions of the Ministry of Justice".]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 10 December 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 238/30-11-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens, New Democracy Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos, Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Acts of minors - Exploration of minors in and out of school." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 239/30-11-2021 topical question by MP Korinthias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Trouble, class-specific and blocked, the government's citizenship policy through the process of naturalisation". 3. The question by No 246/3-12-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The free rapid test for students and teachers in areas that do not exist in public structures or workshops of the EGE". 4. The 252-12-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Expansion of the settlement boundaries of the village of Great Papigo, in Zagori, Epirus". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under No 242-12-2021, is a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Spirtzi, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "Direct action to protect public health and prevent the dispersion of COVID-19 from complying with the rules on social distance from incomplete police officers". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question tabled by Mr Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursements by the peasants of Tyrnavos for the damage they have suffered since the ice in April". 3. The question, under number 264/6-12-2021, by MP B1' North Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Government games with the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work of civil servants". 4. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Standards in the process of adopting a Ministerial Decision adopting a management plan for the operation of the purse seine fishing gear to be dragged from the vessel". 5. The 254/6-12-2021 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Sixteenth one-off financial support for the soldiers ahead of the celebrations and free and secure movement of them during holidays". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Boeotia by the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panayios (Giota) Poulou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Direct need to strengthen public libraries throughout the country". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 548/21-10-2021 asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Will tolls be imposed at all thirty-two kilometers of the BOAK in front of the city of Heraklion?" 3. The question, under number 728/29-10-2021, of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "In a dead end the country's construction services, engineers and citizens." 4. The question asked by MP Florina of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Theoristis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Problem regarding the government's planning for special and local urban plans". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering our supplementary agenda. LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Guarantee Development Go and regulate more specific issues of defoliation". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 2 December 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, single on the principle, articles and amendments. The speakers will be registered electronically until the end of the speech by the second rapporteur. I think that there is no objection to this basic procedure. The House unanimously agreed. The New Democracy's general rapporteur, Mr Dimitrios Ciridis, is called in Stepma for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u4	I would like to make a small intervention. It is a very critical bill which has been discussed in five days and we have been received at night a hundred and fifty pages of amendments from all the ministries. Only when the ministers come to defend their amendments can this debate be held. The issue is further downwards. We ask for or for an extension of the debate or for the amendments to be withdrawn. This thing can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u5	If the first answer is that a decision of the Conference of Presidents is needed, there is therefore no meeting. The second will be answered by the Minister when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u6	Sure. However, they may not see us out of here at the moment, but they will know that the bill of liberation was discussed in five days, downgraded and with thousands of amendments from all ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u7	Okay, okay, don't say down. Let's see how many will be registered by colleagues. And yesterday there was a comment of this kind and it was finally signed by eight colleagues and we were done 17.30. We could've finished at 12 noon if they signed thirty-eight. Open the electronic record system, please. Here, Mr. Courides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u8	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion relates to a major issue of our time, that of liberation, and I would like to take a little bit of it from the start. We have had a very thorough debate, indeed, at four meetings in the committee responsible. There was an in-depth and in-depth dialogue. The views of both stakeholders were heard from western Macedonia and from the wider Megalopolis region. We had, of course, the Minister, Mr Papathanassis, and yesterday and Mr Georgiadis from the Ministry of Development in this very important process. The bill regulates some things, does not regulate them all, there will also be other legislative measures, of course, to tackle this colossal challenge, which is the challenge of defoliation, especially for the two regions concerned. But first of all - and I stress this - we have to tell the Greek people the truth, we have to tell the truth in the local communities that are struggling with us. It is not the time either for specs, for civilisation, or for fishing in cloudy waters, for conspiracy, for unnecessary controversies that the local community will pay first and foremost. It therefore requires the debate of the bill at least at the outset - and I will come to the individual - to place the political forces in particular. And we need to explain five main points at the outset to the Western Macedonians and our Peloponnese friends and to the Greek people as a whole. Let me mention them in detail, because I think they are very important. First dimension: Protection of the environment. The issue of liberation is linked to the most important threat that humanity has faced in its history, not just climate change, what I have said in committee, climate collapse, and I am using the word consciously. We all need to realise the problem we have in front of us, the climate collapse. The answer we are going to give to this great challenge depends not just on our well-being, our survival. Therefore, those political forces insist that they whistle indifferently, conspiring, overlooking scientific data, or just as badly, be with the environment and the polluting activities that are really here reveal themselves, do not serve either the national or the people's interests at all. I accept the arguments to the individual, to accept that this arrangement must be made otherwise, that proposal, that plan for development to be added, but is it possible to have four meetings in the committee to tell us that the climate collapse, the problem of environmental degradation, is a conspiracy of multinationals? Is this a capitalist conspiracy? Does the climatic collapse in itself have a class mark? Well, I have news to you: When Marx wrote "The Capital" in the middle of the nineteenth century, there was not the problem. The problem began on this long route of human history all of a sudden, since the middle of the nineteenth century, mainly in Britain and in western Europe, which was first industrialized, of course, America and the whole West has gone on to embrace the whole world, especially Asia, the emerging developing Asia. Half the carbon dioxide emissions today from coal and lignite combustion come from a country - half! - called China, which has been growing rapidly since 1980, since it left state planning, that is, mainly since 2000. So, with the chips of the nineteenth century, you cannot come here and try to make politics with these flaws and simplifications. Get out of the spiritual lurking and enter the 20th first century, finally! Obviously, tackling the climate collapse has a political dimension and a class mark, but in itself it is a reality that you cannot question. Nor can it be said that it is a conspiracy of Germany and the Germans who want to subdue us, while they too have a huge problem with carbonisation, defoliation and move on. It is not a conspiracy, therefore, but a scientific presumption that half the carbon dioxide emissions come from the combustion of coal or lignite basically for electricity production and the production of cement, steel, but mainly for electricity production. The coal, ladies and gentlemen, is the worst fossil fuel, worse than oil and much worse than natural gas and lignite is the worst form of coal, to say, it is the most infectious, most polluting and with the least calorific load and potential fossil fuel. There can be no response to climate collapse, without global liberation, and our country cannot move the finger to others, to the Chinese, to the Indians, to Asia, which is 80% of the problem today - 80% of the problem! - if it does not make its own notes. So, first of all, we agree that we have a problem with climate collapse. Secondly, we should first of all agree that, apart from the environment, there are also the economics which make the use of lignite extremely inconsistent and damaging. Half a billion is the cost to PPC from the operation of its units every year and it is a cost which is increasing because the prices of pollutant rights throughout Europe are increasing - because we have heard a lot of crazy things here. Production of coal from lignite declines dramatically and declines beyond the environment and for economic reasons. So the economy is next to the environment. To agree on this, too, that it has become inconsistent. Thirdly, we have heard again that liberation is violent. Now listen to the evidence of violence: As we explained to you in committee, it was violent in the last five years 2010-2019 and, above all, in the last five years of SYRIZA, without being fair. Because the biggest drop - we said - was in 2016 and 2019 on SYRIZA, a total of 55% fall from 70% of the fall in lignite production over the last decade. We've already got 70% falling. 55% of the 70% happened on your day and to keep us from forget, nothing happened about this 55%. But I want to give you the details of the rest of the countries. In 2020, a year in Britain carbon production decreased by 35% over a year. In Spain, seven lignite stations were closed and production decreased by 50% in one year in 2020. In Britain from 40% in a decade ago, it has fallen to 2% in a decade. As far as the envy of Trump - where there are some in here - is concerned, I would remind you that Trump had come out with an agenda for lignite and carbon. On Trump's day coal production in America fell by 25% between 2016 and 2019, precisely because it does not contribute for economic reasons and not for environmental pressure reasons. In Portugal coal production was abandoned instead of 2030 which was planned - a country similar to us and in terms of other characteristics and standard of living - in 2021, this year. So, first of all: violent transformation has been in the past. Now he's the fair one. Secondly, there is violence elsewhere, particularly elsewhere, in all these countries, which I have mentioned. Some people have told us that we are divesting national wealth. There are - three hundred billion lignite, which we will not exploit, because we are subordinated to the Germans. Well, if you'll excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, didn't SYRIZA have a competition for divesting PPC lignite plants? How many people came to this contest to take this unscrupulous wealth and take advantage of it? Nobody! It has never been in the history of the Greek state of competition, and even the divestment of such a great wealth that no buyer appears. Whatever you're saying here, whatever you're saying here, whatever you're talking about going down to our head, it's coming true and it's disgusting to us. There was no buyer for PPC's lignite plants, because everyone knows - when they are putting money, not when they say easy words - that there is no profit from lignite generation, and that is why the effort - anyway condemned from the outset for other reasons of SYRIZA - did not go ahead. You told us - and I must finish with what you said at first - that there is technology, which makes lignite environmentally compatible. Who are you telling? Sit down and say the truth to the inhabitants of the regions, namely that the famous "CCS, carbon capture and storage technology" that binds carbon dioxide is an extremely expensive technology that can work on a small scale, but obviously, on the huge scale we have to do in lignite production is completely inconsistent, totally original and has before it many decades until it gives the real results we want. Furthermore, you are not telling the truth that the operation of these lignite plants has long ended beyond the environment and that, in order to continue to operate, after the successive extensions they have taken and some operate without permission - and yesterday the Minister said so - additional investments must be made to operate and be able to be properly licensed, beyond the environment. So, at the outset, I call - I will go to the individual - to agree that we have an environmental and climate collapse problem, that the problem cannot be tackled without liberation, that liberation beyond the environment, is forcing us on technology and economics, that there has been violence in the past, not now, that it is violence elsewhere - with the elements that I have given you - that there is no national wealth that we submit to the interests of foreigners and that, in any case, whatever technology can not solve this problem and that we must do something. So, in principle, I would expect you, the opposition parties, to vote in favour, especially KINAL and the supposed economists of SYRIZA and Mera25. Let's see the articles now. There's been too much for gas. Suddenly, natural gas is the problem, which has half the contribution, and of course it is a fossil fuel and it pollutes. It infects half in relation to lignite. We need to have base units. We need to connect the national network to Europe even better, so that we can get energy when they produce and give energy when we produce RES. So we need to do projects there, in connection with Italy, in addition to the rest of Europe via the Balkans. We need to move on to storage technologies. The greatest technology, the one we have, is pumpers. You're against both the dams and the pumpers. Take note now: in the wind turbines that are destroying, in the photovoltaics, in the dams and pumps and in the connections we have not made to natural gas and to one and the other. Well, tell us at last how we will produce energy to maintain and increase our standard of living, the necessary one. Are we gonna be with the candles? This is a very serious matter, and that is why we need answers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now, we need a plan and funding to go ahead with this defoliation. We had neither plan nor funding. We are now bringing them together with the bill and all that has happened in the past two years that we have explained to you. Over seven billion, when the funding was zero. "On your days there has been no consultation." No more untrue. It was thorough, it is a consultation that will continue - never end, and the Minister told you yesterday - you heard the mayors, the districtlors and we will listen to them all the time and again. You told us the other thing, because I sat and looked for the regional planning plans - he says - that we did not bring them and move on to towns, to the individual, while we have not done the whole thing. Yes, sir. So ask Mr Stathakis, your Minister, why, while voting and validating the general planning plans of other regions, he did not do so in 2018 for western Macedonia and the Peloponnese. I have here all the correspondence at the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, so that we can all be revealed today and the masks fall. Because SYRIZA, while receiving funding from the European Union to make spatial planning, and while the spatial planning took place, was presented by Mrs Irini Klampatsea, your Secretary-General, on your day, Mr Stathakis, in order not to go ahead with degreeisation, did not sign and did not ratify the two general urban plans of the two regions affected by exception and contrary to what he did with the rest of the country. This is the reality of general spatial planning. So that you do not move the finger, because there has been a lot of toxicity and a lot of poison and a lot of specs and blind reactions and fishing in the cloudy waters, Mr President, and exploiting the pain and suffering of the citizens. And because I fear that it will continue, we have to draw a line here and say that we have to agree, that we will be next to the people with credibility, as New Democracy does with credibility. Next week we will discuss the budget. For the first time, the budget forecasts are being defied upwards. We started with 3.6...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Courides, take a look at the clock across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President, it is just a matter of importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u11	Yes, it is, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I shall end in two minutes at the latest. It is a matter that burns, a matter of national importance. So I'm talking about your unreliability, because we'll discuss it in detail next week. All of your budget forecasts in 2016, in 2017, fell out in 2018. You were talking about 3% growth, we had 1.5%. You were talking about 2.8% growth, we had 1.3%. It was not your budget that achieved the objective of development. On the contrary, our guy, 2021, started with 3.6%, went to 5.9%, now he's 6.9% and will reach 8%. In the past, we have never developed more than twice as much in terms of prediction, which shows credibility. We have a transitional programme by 2023 and we have the large 7 billion programme, which has been thoroughly analysed and the tables have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u13	Close, Mr. Courides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u14	I'm closing, Mr. President. We cannot step on two boats, be with both the environment and the pollutants and the lignite and the economists. For us, Mr President, in the new Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, degreeisation is a key issue. It defines the New Democracy in the new era. The great liberal party in Europe is absolutely attributing to global and pan-European efforts to counter climate collapse, with no contradictions, without backwards, without lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Courides, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u16	The contradictions you have. I expect to hear you and I may come back to the end of the debate, after listening to all my colleagues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u17	It goes without saying that there will be a relative tolerance for all the rapporteurs and speakers. The floor is now on behalf of the SYRIZA Officer, Mrs Theophiste Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Following the position of my colleague and yesterday's terrible position, Mr Georgiadis, I imagine that all citizens in that country, but especially the citizens of western Macedonia and Megalopolis, feel very happy. And business they have, and money they have, and heating they have, and perspective they have, and machines to dig, they have everything! So I wonder why we're talking. Now I understand why you compressed the time. Four days, ladies and gentlemen! In plenary you have also brought amendments from all the ministries. You don't have to! Since they're all happy, they're number one at all! What at first, my dear colleague, is that the only good thing I have seen in your location was that you have read a little and learned that there is a climate crisis and European institutions and regulations. I am speaking from the first committee. You were telling us here that it's a circular regional MAI. Now he's been looking for it. We're doing something good. We have you read! Will you tell us about the climate crisis that Alexis Tsipras signed the Green Agreement and made a whole plan? And you must not forget, as your Prime Minister forgets who put the country in the memorandum. You forget to mention, like the Minister yesterday, that at the time there was a 15-year definition of liberation and a gradual reduction. And of course there was a reduction and we did the first National Fair Transfer Fund of 60 million, which you are probably underestimating and which is why you are not using it. Now as if they're moving. And 6% of this fund went to 1% for the lignite regions. And Mr. Screkas came with generosity and took it to 4.5%. And where's the world bank? Yes, we did give a study, because we had fifteen years to study. Your bill is in no way inconsistent with these directives, nor with regulations, nor with the global bank. It's centralized, as you do all. But let conspiracy come to us, what can I say? Who are you addressing all this to? Who are you addressing? And of course you have undermined the RES and put society across, because you have not taken care of the special landfill, to know where they go and where they come from. You talked about storage. Even the institutional framework for storage does not exist at the moment! That's why lignite plants open up and burn lignites at the time of ligniteification. You know that! Let's see what's going to happen in the winter! Because you haven't advanced the RES and you've done it with overheating. Anyone who was getting permission, and a letter of guarantee at the end, remembered to put Mr. Hatzidakis in a bill. I repeat that other movements are right and others aren't. But who will judge that? There's a tool called spatial planning. Because you don't know and you don't respect science, it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. Here, of course, with Matty, you're going to do away with it all. This is seen in every bill. We have also seen the Greek amendment. Therefore, this climate crisis is cut into us. It's at the left side of this sentence. In fact, we in Europe support more ambitious objectives. But I really want to talk a little bit about New Democracy's environmental policy, because it's interesting what it does outside. There is, therefore, a climate network, the Can Europe, which makes a classification of the countries that are moving on to carbonisation, because we are talking about carbonisation. It's not liberating, it's a place. There, therefore, our country does not belong to the pioneer countries for carbonisation, but to countries that have replaced lignite with natural gas and therefore do not fulfil the European Union's environmental objectives. They are sixteen countries before Greece and Greece are with Hungary, Ireland and Italy. At the same time, you know what he's doing outside - how nice you said it! - This government? It supports the inclusion of carbon storage and fossil gas in the European Union Regulation establishing a framework for facilitating sustainable investment, Taxonomy Regulation. That's what he's doing out! There is obviously no sensitivity to the environment. Mr. Mitsotakis has committed himself to serving the natural gas. This is why four new gas licenses have been issued, spaces for planning Ptolemais 5 for natural gas. You will have to answer us sometime if you have investigated other solutions, with what fuel, when the others will be closed down. There are a lot of questions. I've asked a question, but he never answered it properly. There is a obsession with natural gas on the master plan. In the first version of the proposal for the Recovery and Resilience Fund, you had gas projects. In the second, they have left because they have obviously taken your ears, because Europe is talking about inert capital. So tell the citizens of western Macedonia, Megalopolis, that in a few years' time they will relive what they are living today with liberation. You will then tell them that Europe, etc., must leave the gas. Tell the people of Florina who have cut off the work of district heating, while all of Europe is investing in district heating, "State of the art". And you put natural gas in the homes and in a few years you will tell them 'cut, because it is fossil fuel'. You are fighting in Europe to enter Taxonomy. He's not coming in. It has escaped the issue of the environmental crisis and there have also been neo-liberal movements. And it's the Left, it's the Greens that are pushing. You are at stake in the green transition. What am I supposed to say about the resources? We say that we are one country in the allocation of resources is from the table in the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Unemployment, long-term dependence on local economies by lignite, has not been taken into account, the speed of defoliation. The Prime Minister pledged and burned the negotiating paper of the rehab speed to get more money. We're nine. Regardless of who speaks, we hear about 5 billion, about 5.5 billion, for 7 billion and 7.5 billion. That's how far we've arrived. We see 1.6 billion - we have said it and said it before - from the EMFF, the rest of the ERDF and the ESF and 15% of the cofinancing. I'm not going to analyze it because I don't have much time. But what do you do now? These EUR 1.6 billion add to the funds that would in any case go to the MAGPs, the sectoral programmes in western Macedonia. You add resources for some projects that had to be done: vertical axis Florina - Niki, E65. We add these to them. The two billion that Mr Mitsotakis said in Kozani is one of the other two pillars of the fair development transition programme, the Invest Europe and the European Investment Bank. The European Investment Bank does have 325 million. We're seeing this. Invest Europe is loans and guarantees in the private sector, since there is, of course, an investment interest. You add from there. Whatever you want to say. Why 7.5 billion? Say 15 billion. However, what matters is what we have gained from the other funds, the ERDF and the ESF in the programme only received 1.5 of the amount of the Fair Transfer Fund, while we could take up to 3 times. That's not what he claimed either. Claim it. The resources for such a profound transformation are needed. So, after the announcements, the uncertainties, we had some nice texts that all depend on our private initiative, a master plan, you did not do what you should, that is, spatial planning, specific town plans, land restorations that give immediate work to those who are now losing their job. Even these flagship investments should come - I accept your plan that in two years' time - those who now lose their jobs what will they do? You say to them: 'Wait, don't die, in two years you will have a job'. Neither restorations, nor specific town planning, nor spatial and territorial plans for a fair transition. It's a disgrace. We're being ridiculous. They went to Europe with an official statement and we find that they have gone without a Strategic Environmental Impact Study. So it's not official statement, it's rough. We're asking to see them. They were posted in November after our own question from July. Come on, it's all done. It's okay. That's what's happening. Now that we see them, the territorial plans are not consistent with the bill, Minister. But you're saying in Europe, but you're legislating here. And you also send contradictory messages, of course. I don't want to talk to you again. Increased lignite production this year, storage zero. And in the meantime, New Democracy and Megalopolis are falling apart. It is shameful to speak in such a style that they were happy. They're not happy and they're watching the House. I'm telling you, people are very anxious and watching the House and they're listening to what you're saying. They cannot feel happy because you are doing it. There are three and a half thousand unemployed. In any case, you have heard the bodies. I'm telling you, they're not our mayors. The New Democracy - most of them - also supported them by the regional authorities. You heard that they were satisfied with the consultation, from the participation in the governance model, from the jobs, from the resources - they were asked if they took resources - from the spatial planning. You heard them. You have taken these into consideration. There's nowhere to be found. So today, after two and a half years of terrible involvement by the New Democracy Government with what I have told you, the regions have seen. Two and a half years, then, we are taking the first step. 'We'll make the model of governance, 'we'll set up the system. To the law. Don't imagine the recruitments, the secondments tomorrow. It takes a year, too. The end of 2021 is, in 2023, debilitating. Are you going to catch up? The governance model that you regulate, therefore, does not fulfil any requirement of any fund, of the Fair Transition Fund, of the common provisions of the Funds, of the toolwork for governance of the transition to the planning of the European Commission's governance structures, the recommendations of the World Bank mentioned in the roadmap for the transition of Western Macedonia to the post-lining era. For example, the Fund Regulation said that land is being drawn up together with the local and regional competent authorities of the territories concerned. It also refers to the development and implementation of local projects, at least involving as regional, local, urban and other public authorities. Civil society, research organisations, universities, trade unions, associations on gender equality, environmental organisations? Have you heard of this? SYRIZA doesn't say it. Left won't say it. The partnership established works according to the principle of multi-level governance according to a top-down approach - you know that at all? - and promote the upgraded involvement of local institutional forms in shaping and implementing the transition. Governance says it is a complex challenge, a participatory and inclusive process that ensures the ownership of the transition and strengthens its legitimacy. The social dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, is the heart of a fair transition. There's no other way. With two, three investors in your mind to take public money, to make two investments with society outside, will you say that you're going? With the disaster? That's why I'm shouting. Of course, there are such examples. That is why I am talking about western Macedonia and Megalopolis. There are examples of these with very low wages, the circumvention of tools — land, societies, etc. Let's not imagine them - and two, three major investments that gave jobs without much innovation, something photovoltaic and wind turbines just, nothing more innovative. It's a model. So there, ladies and gentlemen, it is our difference. We said that we agreed on the climate crisis, the global political leadership would say I, except for the extreme right, Trump and so on. However, measures to tackle it may have a worse impact on people than the climate crisis itself. That is the political difference. We're talking about society together. We say with a state that digitizes, that makes its tools, one makes a startup, another great investment, the other makes an energy community, a village copys a nice example from a village in Sweden, a university, a doctorate. This is a transition, it is a transformation of the productive profile of a region. This is where the University of Western Macedonia is losing parts. Six sections are gone. What role will this university play, which always has a very important role to play in the transition? That goes too. The model, centralized, with polyarchy. We will have the Minister of RSSM, the coordinator of the RSSM, the commander of the RSSM, the CEO of the “METAID S.A.”, the advisor of the “META S.A.”. The polyarchy will not help us at all. Also, hires without criteria for a special salary and bonus, of course, to all staff of the special service. But let's go to "MATTER S.A.". A legal person is created under private law. It can also be positive because it will have a flexibility. But he has no social control. This is a very serious point. We're going to put forward some proposals at the end. You plan to transfer the obligations for the restoration of lignite land from PPC to the state. PPC has used the lands, it does not restore them, it is exempted, it gives them to the state to restore them through the secession of the industry. The questions I think are reasonable. What study has it been estimated that the value of the land is comparable to the cost of the restoration? IOBE says it's 2 billion at the cost. I don't know, but that's how it works. Cut with the eye, we give, PPC's gone. Places we're talking about private PPC now. This is a very serious matter. A study, show us. I can make it! What can I say? So to close our mouths: "Here, you guys, so many of these, one or the other, we found them." Although the number of territories is changing in the discussion process of the bill. We started from a hundred and sixty - four thousand acres, went to sixty thousand acres, reached a hundred fifty thousand acres and yesterday at the hearing of bodies forty - eight thousand acres. Today we can hear for a hundred and thirty thousand acres. It is all 'flu'. At the same time, however, since all this is done, what do we see? In the geo-informatics map of the Energy Regulatory Authority, PPC has chosen the land to last. What design, what spatial planning, what agreement, what society, which rural clubs! He's kept the fillets - and the mayors told us - the best. What are the fillets? The fillets are these lands that do not need much restoration, because the restoration is indeed a very large project. They give some slopes to some lands that give a lot of money. That's public, I didn't find out. Open the RAE map and see what PPC gets and what leaves it, before this process is done today. In order to restore the land, we have said so before, it could give jobs. However, in order to have an image, they also depend on future uses, namely, on what restoration you will do and what future uses they are identified by the specific urban plans, which urban projects follow regional spatial planning. What exactly are you doing? What science, what common sense can he hear what I say? You've done away with land planning. I think that the way you're going, you'll be abolishing local self-government. What does he need? Well, you're not putting it anywhere. It's an obstacle to local selfgovernment, and I don't know what we're doing here. Colleagues, I, when I came to this place, thought I would have to deal with a serious procedure, fight issues about my country, the country, the people. I did not expect that I would be here to speak, dear fellow Member, and from below saying: 'Don't go saying, we will vote and we will finish and we will go out to SKAI' and say it's a perfect bill.' This is not a democracy and I should like to see a hundred and fifty pages of amendments for the Greek, for the labour, for health. Really? Do we have a democracy? Is Parliament working?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u19	We've got loose ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u20	You've got loose ends. You're a complete loose end. Special town plan. I'm not going to talk to you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u21	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Buquarre, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u24	In other words, I really think you should be ashamed of this procedure and tell us to vote at first. This is the first time that the largest example of transforming a green transition in the country is being discussed in the House not like this. Watch out for a bit. Don't look at the title. The bill describes the governance model. We're starting to make the model. What principle? We have asked for the territorial plans to be brought to the Committee on Production and Trade. That's where it's going to be. The House is not talking about liberation. We haven't seen them, we don't see what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u25	Come on, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm sorry, but what am I supposed to do? We are proposing to amend the governance model and involve local actors. I believe that in the S.A. transition. Local society, regions, energy municipalities, both on the board of directors and at the general meeting should be involved. It's a caricature with the only public shareholder. Coverage of the position of HRM commander and leading positions. It should go through the Committee of Parliament, with an enlarged majority indeed, if you want to make the transition seriously and of course, apart from the supervised minister, this is what the World Bank says, to be supervised by a coordinating committee and so on. To change the seat of the S.A. transition, to become the offices in the region. The managing authority shall have units in the headquarters of the regions. Recruitment to be made from the lignite areas and to mobilise locality. Recruitment not only to the Ministry of Development but also locally to the Technical Services Directorate, to the Development Directorate and to add the regional dimension, such as the Czech restart, which analysed you in previous committees, which the local society reacted to and became regional committees to advise and move forward. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u27	Please shut down the e-registration. The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Georgios Arvanitidis, will now be given the floor. I would like to inform the House that the Minister will take the floor after the end of the special speakers. Here you go, Mr. Arvanitides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cairides, after you have saved the planet with your policy of climate collapse - I hope that China and India will be informed - since Greece so much contributes to its start-up, by shaping energy costs because of its start-up, someone has to deal with it. I say to you, I hope the Chinese will hear you in English the good things you have said and plan a policy on the planet so that we can avoid climate collapse. I would also like to inform you that the impoverishment and transition to clean energy, Mr Couridi, is a purely political process, because it concerns the many and has jobs to be shared by some. It is a matter for citizens, especially in lignite areas, to remember who spoke first for a green transition ten years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u29	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u30	No, we didn't have a plan, Mr. Courides. Who have spoken first of all about energy democracy, and of course, they can see for two and a half years the results of your plans and policy, which are from behind. Today, your vision of such a serious social, energy, environmental and development issue, such as liberation, is even clearer and clearer. The message is, jobs for the few, say, those who can do jobs and have access to capital, government choices and vague promises for many. That's your policy, and that's what it looks like. No one can avoid it, and of course what you are saying is, we are doing it and we will have results. Let's count them, then! Instead of proposing environmental restoration, in order for the state to be consistent, energy stability of the country, not only to depend on natural gas, social participation through many decentralised renewable energy sources and the respect of PPC's commitments, which you are exempting from costs, and of course you are exempting those who have participated in the increase in equity and only profit and no obligation. Instead, we have a new special service, another pass system, a new S.A. that will manage in the absence of local society the acceleration of these areas. Instead of bringing this bill to the Ministry of Environment and Energy - it is a resource management process - the Ministry of Development brings it, which, with this special service and the transition of S.A., will be limited to doing as always the wheelchair of investments, drawing resources from the Recovery Fund, which is, of course, our last chance, let us do nothing in this place. Since 2019 and the Prime Minister's first announcement - he has been raped, first choice here in the programme statements - or by violent liberation, without a plan, we have reached the front of '21, '22, where he has been formed because of these choices, the expensive energy cost, which is in danger of blowing your own economic policy. So successful was your political planning then, another is today. Energy costs employ small and large, households and businesses. After all, energy costs, Minister, are well aware that it shapes the conditions for growth. How do we ask the Greek companies to grow, to have competitiveness, to have exports, to come to invest at such high energy costs that are the highest in Europe, when on the one hand you announce the closure of all the units of '23 and on the other they are replaced by natural gas units and thus lock a mixture of energy production that you see in its results? For years we have known that lignite has an end date and that we should plan the next day in time. That is what we have tried to do with proposals so that everything can be done properly, with objectives, vision, with a plan. The aim of our party was and is to plan a sustainable transition for all and, above all, for the citizens. Energy justice and energy democracy are the starting points for such choices. The man and the environment at the centre. The future energy character of the Greek regions should emphasise the promotion of energy communities, support for agricultural production. We are subsidising diesel, but we are not giving them the right to have revenues or to reduce its costs from promoting RES and self-produced energy for everyone, for all households. At the same time, to seek other pioneering activities that will be linked to the new digital age, namely, to acquire in particular the wider region of western Macedonia and Megalopolis two hearts, an energy and a digital one. It is clear to us that this bill does not move in this direction and does not take into account this framework. At the same time, there are still significant uncertainties that you should have finalised before it was brought to the vote on this bill: the revision of the national climate energy plan, the adoption of the climate law - we have tabled you months ago, you have not seen your options yet, it is in consultation - your decision for sudden death of all units in 2023 that you are still alleged to think about because of the conditions that have been established. Of course, the unknown X. Do you know, Mr. Courides, that we have invested 1 billion in Ptolemaida 5? Two years we've been asking what you're going to do with this unit? Over 1 billion has cost the Greek public. This is also open to uncertainty. I say this because you choose to proceed with your own project without the participation of local communities and reject any proposal you are presenting to you. I have told the committee about the backwards of the decision of the Region of Western Macedonia. We have discussed with the actors how the mayors and local authorities themselves deal with the consultation that you have chosen. So you come and impose your own choices with local communities on the margin. You are bringing experts' solutions, as you can see, solutions from above. Without local co-modulation without consensus, we are not going to have any effect. This is the case, of course, with the same choice and where new investments are going to be made, which is afflicted by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, because the citizens do not accept the very clear things you are planning. Because no one knows where we put wind turbines, because we put them, what the spatial plan is. We must all realise that here we are talking about a violent change in people's lives in western Macedonia. Is it possible for a man, as I have said in committee, who has been planning his life for the last forty years, who has been financially setting up, who is studying his children according to the model in the area, to ask him to change today without supporting him, without showing him how, without training him? We simply present plans and say 'there are resources to ensure that they are implemented'. Good words, bad planning, bad execution, and once again zero result I predict. So make mega photovoltaic parks in the area without residents participating. Why don't we subsidise them or do we don't fund them with the same rules to make an energy community and people who lose their jobs to participate in one of these investments? I had heard Mr Black here of renewable energy sources talking about relocation and participation of local societies. Why not energy community? What are you afraid of? In the Change Movement we have tabled detailed proposals and have spoken very early on about the cost of a gradual and balanced energy transition. We have first talked about the sustainable transition clause on the withdrawal of units. We were also the first and only ones to speak with numbers in our proposal "Energy passport for the future". We have considered that it will take some 300 million on an annual basis for the next fifteen years, with emphasis on Ptolemais, Kosani and Megalopolis, so that the economic activity can really be changed, and that it will be possible to maintain the energy character of these regions and to preserve social cohesion. Today, having to deal with this extremely difficult situation of the triple crisis, economic, climate and health crisis, but also after the positions of regional councils, changes and adaptations are needed. It needs a spirit of cooperation and not a solution that is excellent from above. We need clear answers to the concerns and concerns of residents and workers in these regions. How can we be ready within a year and in 2023, as it says, for the switch of all units to come down? What do you say about the country's security of supply? What do you say about full dependence on imported base fuel, on natural gas, on which the country's energy tank is bound and which ejects, as we have just seen, the cost of energy with chain effects on the economy that we have seen since August? Of course the Prime Minister will run to Russia and other countries to secure such sources and it seems the anguish of the economic staff who will result in inflation and energy costs in your planned economic policy. What do you answer the objections to the final decision of the Regional Council of Western Macedonia on the fact that the current environmental conditions of PPC S.A. are being abolished, the key point of which is the restoration of mining land? Predicted land uses are being destroyed and instead of 3% of the land provided for in environmental conditions to go for PV investments, for 2 GW, you give 33% of the land. The obligation to restore the land is transferred from PPC to the public sector without any provision for who will pay the cost. Minister, you must say that. Who's gonna pay and when? What is the recovery plan for those areas that will handle the Greek State? The new environmental conditions for the 2 GW photovoltaics were issued, while other environmental conditions were in force and under this draft law, this unprecedented practice on European and national data is later legalised. Of course, land restoration, even if we had money and resources, takes over 15 years. You are granted with the bill rights of spatial planning, the definition of land use and town planning arrangements which are the jurisdiction of the State to two public limited companies, the ‘METAIS S.A.’ and the ‘PPC S.A.’. The European and national regulated right of consultation for the participation of local societies in these decisions, in an orderly and institutionally regulated manner, is abolished. You are creating an over-centralised planning and management structure, removed from the region and the institutional bodies. All this needs, Minister, clear answers because and with what aim you are doing all this. And I want to insist on the issue of land restoration and how they are shared. The Fair Transfer Fund shall provide for only EUR 242 million for restorations, amount relating to the restoration of land to be retained by PPC S.A... Another little gift. At the same time, the Recovery Fund with around EUR 6 billion available for green actions has no provision, nor a single euro, for rehabilitation in western Macedonia. Answer us why. The "MATTER S.A." to which the land will be transferred does not provide for the restoration of land under this draft law. So the obligation leaves PPC to the state without funding and, of course, when we say a state without funding and without a programme, to the taxpayer Greek citizens as a whole. And I told you the example. How is it possible for PPC's partner, renewable energy sources and German RWE, while in Germany it is forbidden to invest photovoltaics in the mines in order to provide developmental production processes, in Greece it finds how to carry out its choices? I am bringing an example from Germany on the one hand and, on the other, the positive energy democracy and how decentralised production of energy and self-consumption owns a huge, significant proportion of the energy mix. Why don't we do it here? No one's answering. We keep putting it in every place. We have proposed to you in the last two years a parallel clause on a sustainable transition for a smooth and gradual withdrawal of lignite plants. What does that mean? As long as from GDP I lose by pulling a unit, regardless of the energy mix for the local economy, I replace it with specific measures - development options in the region. I see if it works, I'll go to the next one. Sustainable transition clause should have each project with measurable results for social, economic and environmental impacts. This clause must also be fully compatible with the European principle of non-injuriousness in the environment, which is one of the criteria for financing the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Preservation, too, of the energy brand name of areas with new content, safeguarding the district's district's district's district's heating, full land restoration and environmental restoration. These were the crucial points which we have been developing for two years since the Stephen of the House for two years. This is the only way these regions can remain socially dynamic and withstand the violent change in their lives. Of course, the most important thing, perhaps, that should include such a bill is a special example for the energy communities in the region, energy communities that can participate in the LAGs, public bodies and other collectives and residents, with a commitment of a specific electrical space of 150 MW and an area within the mines, so that it can be seen whether or not they can and can not. It is also important to mention the dramatic situation of the municipality of Kozani, which, instead of implementing the relocation law, which we voted on here in 2011, people there, instead of relocation, see them surrounded by huge photovoltaic parks in areas that were provided for in the environmental conditions of the rural land. What do we tell these residents? We've been telling them for so many years not to be sad, that we'd make a model, modern settlement, that land will be given back to farming. Now what? Thousands of photovoltaic parks and not even a relocation. The settlement loses its vital space and at the same time does not relocate. And you expect social consensus in any choice we make in this country? I now come to Articles 17, 18 and 19 of the bill, which are moving towards creating goodwill in the defoliation zones for the benefit of PPC. More present. In particular, PPC becomes a key regulator for the preparation of special urban plans in the degreasing zones. Extreme competence in the renewed PPC. Given that the defoliation zones are located in the out-of-project areas and that part of the land belongs to PPC, they transfer the power to draw up specific town plans to PPC without mentioning the local communities and municipalities what is going to happen there. New morals and customs. This creates the spatial conditions for PPC to build small cities in areas that are currently only industrialised in lignite mines. The municipalities have no reason to speak, societals have no say. PPC has competence, and instead of these areas, in the restorations, to return with environmental parks, green parks, biodiversity parks, walk spaces, sports parks, only ambiguity and new players who are planning for them, without them. I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the climate-neutral economy that we hope to bring with liberation is not a political neutral path. It must have a clear progressive figure with the citizen at the heart of shaping these policies. The big question for us is the fair transition to green, promoting RES and social fairness. It is not enough simply to set ambitious environmental targets. The ambitious objectives must also be accompanied by radical redirections of resources and be governed by social and geographical justice. The draft law you are presenting to us today, however, does not guarantee these conditions, and that is why we have also told the Commission that we are voting against it. This bill brings a green and profitable transition for the few and an unjust transition for the many and a unfortunately increased energy cost, paid by all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u31	Mr Ioannis Delis has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. The title of today's bill, which is fair to the transition of the regions of western Macedonia and Megalopolis to another economic and productive basis, has nothing to do with reality, none. Here, of course, this transition has already begun and is expected to be completed, and soon, in the coming period. But this is a change in the business groups of green energy. This is about the rapid transition of these green predators to a new investment area, which promises them great, huge business profits. But it is not just that this profitable transition of groups to green business is done by means of the full and undivided assistance of the city itself. That is precisely the essence of today's bill, and not to forget those billions of the Recovery Fund, half of which will end up in green pockets again. There's one more thing. It is also the fact that these large business profits will also be accumulated with the guarantee of the Greek public, please, with those reasonable green fees, with which the public households are caring for the state itself. At the same time, at the same time, in the area of Kozani, Florina and Megalopolis there is another transition, the transition of thousands of workers to and around lignite generation, the transition of the local households from these areas along with the small magazator, the self-employed and the small professionals. But the transition of all this is not about profits, but about the hard world of unemployment, poverty, uncertainty and insecurity. The district manager of Western Macedonia spoke of twenty thousand additional unemployed and 1.5 billion lost income. With them all the rest of the Greek people, who already live their own transition to the difficult world of energy poverty with the expensive electricity. Is it possible to call this a fair transition? This is an absolutely class transition, and because it is just classic for that it is also unjust for the people. That is why you are saying that it is not about the people, but about the fair sharing between the monopolistic groups of all this large 7 billion pie, which this development transition brings with it. Fair now? Okay, as long as such a split can be fair, as everyone knows how badly wolves and jackals fight for their prey. So what do you think there in the government? That by reminding you now of the frustration to resurrect that old SYRIZA's slogan of fair growth that the people will buy it? But reality itself, the stubborn one, shows every day that nowhere can a capitalist growth be fair to a very simple reason: Development capitalist means only profit development, and that cannot be done, you know, without the exploitation of workers and all the people. So now you are all coming here together, New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL and other urban parties, and you are presenting this transition to liberation as a sort of natural, compulsory process to save the environment, instead of telling the truth, that it is a specialization and implementation of the central political choice of capital to find a way out of profitability. But we will talk about this later. But why do you present the reality reversed? What are you all trying to hide? First of all, your responsibilities. Because you have huge responsibilities, all of you and your parties, which you have agreed for at least thirty years, supported and loyally implemented the policy of so-called liberalisation of energy, as designed by the European Union. So this common political line in energy is the one that led to PPC S.A. and the other private parasites-companies of electricity with the expensive power for the people. And this is your policy, which is now the uterus for today's negative, again negative for the people, which is brought about by frustration. And no matter how much you're trying to gold out or rather green the pill of lipotization, with green growth and other such green horses, the poison you're giving the people, no matter what you do, honey can't do it. And whatever energy communities you show up there in SYRIZA and other, supposedly alternative, energy communities in what galaxy truth? Did there be any galaxy of human capitalism? Do you just do it to make the people accomplice to their own slaughter by becoming a trader of energy, as you say, and where do you say? Next to and between the magnificence of energy. But let us turn around and think a little deeper about green choices and green programmes of capital. How, then, does all this sudden love and the burning interest of capitalists in the environment explain? What happened all of a sudden? Is there a crisis of conscience about the incalculable environmental disasters that they and their system have caused, burning forests, destroying lakes, rivers and oceans for their profits? Nothing like that. After all, these are well known to be settled by the Greek shipowners with such a NGOs to save, as they said, the sea. Who? Her biggest polluters. Let's say it clearly here. This whole green capitalist stalk is neither inappropriate nor just theoretical. In fact, this whole green account is a very convenient pretext and an excellent excuse for the capitalists. Attention, however: the new Green Agreement does not attempt to save the environment, for which, as we see every day, the capitalists themselves and their state do not give a brunette. The new Green Agreement attempts with a giant company-funding the management of another problem, the problem of overcompensation of capital internationally, but also in our country. This is what Biden election is serving in the United States. The European Green Agreement also serves the same. The same is served, of course, by the policy of all of you in our country, which you promote and praise this project. In short, today's Green Deal is trying to deal with the same problem as what it tried to deal with the previous new deal a century ago, the problem of overcompensation of capital, since in many branches of the international capitalist economy they are luring funds that cannot be invested profitable and leading us to the crises of 2008, 2020, etc. And in order to create, as you can see, new opportunities, to form a profitable field, it is necessary to devalue, destroy part of the existing capital. Well, that is precisely what this objective is at present serving the closure of lignite power stations, as well as the withdrawal of aircraft and all the vehicles that move with traditional fuels, namely petrol and oil. That is why you are struggling and competing with each other for who can better, faster, more efficiently proceed with degreasing, for which you fully agree. Others, such as the New Democracy, want to be in the fastest, like SYRIZA, you want it to be less violent, more carefully, with more social consensus. On the aprons of capital, then, we see lads being slaughtered and fighting parties about who can end up in an hour before lignite production, so that the RES groups can find investment, so that they can have multiple profits - guaranteed, as we said - by the state. To pass this, however, to the people, you also need arguments. In addition to protecting the environment, you all invoke the high cost of electricity generation from lignite. Wait a minute, though. You all know that lignite, which is abundant in our country, is also of excellent quality, produces electricity very cheaply, with a natural cost of three-four times less than the RES. So how does he look more expensive? But because you are loading him with the superfluous carbon charge, you are charging him with the cost of carbon dioxide, which is, in fact, a cost that is entirely arbitrary and always at that level that is needed to make lignite production seem inconsistent. These are the well-known high-priced green fees paid by the people with their power bills and, of course, they entrenched the green predators of energy. Those who, therefore, invoke the increased cost of lignite production are hiding that these costs are absolutely artificial and that this is being launched through the trade in pollutants and the increasing carbon dioxide limits imposed by the European Union and by international competition, which are lysing. But you're hiding something else. You hide that today, based on the evolution of science and technology, the production of electricity from lignite can also leave a minimum environmental footprint and at the same time also have a small production cost. This is precisely the case of the most modern unit in Europe, Ptolemais Ptolemais 5, worth 1.5 billion euros, which ends on the way, who has been paid with people's money and who, with the so-called transition of liberation, since 2028 and then, in all cases, is likely to lead to a change of fuel use, but in any case imported, which, as you can see, increases our country's energy dependence. As for your arguments on environmental protection - which, indeed, needs to be protected continuously and continuously - are arguments deeply hypocritical. And it is not only that these are naive, that they are caught and enclaved in their nets alive people's forces that have a true concern for the environment, but it is also deceptive, since they say that saving the environment passes through capitalist growth, green. There's no bigger lie! Capitalist development, whatever it is, only the environment does not protect. And this is where he wants a lot of nerve, really, to show carcinogen burning waste as an environmentally-friendly, rapidly green waste management policy. And he wants even greater enthusiasm for this carnivorous burning of garbage to be meant for whom, really? Put it to the people of western Macedonia, as an alternative to burning lignite, and put it in the name of protecting the environment, as well as making environmental sermons here. And where your nerve becomes really disgusting is when you're about to work, again in the context of green development, asbestos dump - yes, asbestos dump - where, please? In Zidani, in the Serbs of Kozani, on the banks of the Polyfytos Lake. You call that environmental protection? Are you kidding us? But this is your green development. Black and spidery and very dangerous. But green growth wants more. It takes space, a lot of space, to develop the large photovoltaic parks in western Macedonia and Megalopolis and, indeed, in high productivity land, destroying it in substance and that is why changes in the uses of land are needed. Today's bill contains a lot of planning and land use provisions for the hundreds of thousands of acres of degreasing zones. You also grant to a private holding company such as PPC S.A. now. - Listen, listen to me! - the right to private building and private spatial planning, to have her hands completely loose and unaccompanied and to become the largest investor of thousands of acres in this area. But you allow, at the same time or rather, you better make it easier for this private company PPC's most anonymous to write in the old shoes of its shareholders its own heavy obligations for settlement relocations, such as Mavropi, Anargyroi, Podtokomi, Akrini and others. You are also getting bogged down through inter-popular enterprises that are anticipating a sharp rise in the prices of district heating, which has already been very much exaggerated for the people of the region. As for the workers of the projects of this fair phase of development transition, as the text of the bill says, these projects are motivated by the rapid authorisation of strategic investment. Yes, sir. Do you know what that means? Subsidies of up to 70% of investment, far-reaching taxation, favourable conditions for bypassing environmental commitments in the name of always - everything - of environmental protection. These investments, however, also bring other "pays" to working class drugs, some work-olive relationships, some hunger and poverty wages, tens of hours instead of eight hours, freedom of redundancies, contract slave-pazars, limiting to the disappearance of the right to strike, employers' immunity, workplaces - shelves, without any measure of health and safety. But what am I sitting here telling you now? You don't know all this? Aren't you all the ones who voted for them once apart and once all together with the memorials and now they're being implemented? In conclusion, the JRC's proposal for all of this is this: Energy will no longer be a commodity, and energy central energy planning will make use of all the energy sources, with the aim of combining all the people's needs. What does that mean? It means developing large hydroelectric power plants. Isn't that green energy? You're not saying anything about them. Furthermore, the development of modern lignite plants with environmentally friendly technology, finally placement of wind farms in order to avoid overcompensation in certain areas and environmental degradation, orientation for the use of natural gas for domestic use and not for electricity generation, with a view to saving energy, exploiting scientific research to provide for future energy needs and to form the appropriate energy mix. What's all this about? In order for every people's family to meet its current needs, heating, air conditioning, eliminating energy poverty, exempting workers from the nightmare of unemployment, dangerous working conditions and flexible labour relations, taking all necessary measures to protect the environment and health of residents, reduce the country's energy dependence and boost the development of domesticly socialised production. These are the axes for the only realistic philosophical perspective for tomorrow's energy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u33	The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not know what the rapporteur of the New Democracy says, but yesterday the Minister told the committee that our lignite plants are working in the full house, so it seems that the government finally understood its mistake. But he probably did not understand it yet, insisting on 'bads', using the word he mentioned, although we regard it as unfavorable, as well as the word 'Charlatanism', which essentially describes the economic and energy policy of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as we mentioned at the first meeting of the committee, we are not dogmatically in favour of lignite, despite the fact that it could be a relatively clean source of energy using modern methods, otherwise a new factory would not be built in Germany until 2020. We are, however, against the violent frustration you are promoting, when other countries such as Poland and Germany will withdraw lignite after 2035, of course, and also against our energy dependence, which is directly related to our national security and our economic independence. We are also opposed to throwing out the window the EUR 300 billion that costs our lignite reserves, which we certainly need, with our public debt at EUR 386,8 billion at the end of September, with the red private debt of more than EUR 250 billion and with our external debt at EUR 526,5 billion. Huge figures, how much more so when the government plans to fly out of the window also our energy reserves in the Aegean, worth 427 billion euros, according to a study by Deutsche Bank that we have submitted to committee in the Minutes, since both the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister said they would stop mining without asking anyone. No one asked. In addition, we are against this because without lignite it is impossible for our energy independence, so that today we are dependent on 76% of energy imports, including countries such as Turkey. Finally, we are opposed to thousands of jobs being lost in the lignite production regions, with painful results for their inhabitants, especially because of the disastrous state of our economy as a result of the mismanagement of its governments. However, we are already paying the bill of the catastrophic decisions on early decommissioning, with a transitional fuel for natural gas, with the great increase in energy costs that triggers accuracy. The government does not, of course, think of how households can cope with up to 130% of current increases, nor of how our industry will remain competitive, but also of other businesses. We note that recently a small industry paying a electricity bill of EUR 19 000 last year was asked to pay EUR 47 000. Does the government not know that every 10% reduction in the energy price is increasing our GDP by one billion, and then, rather, neither is the energy we have left? However, industry's cost of production has already increased by 20% to 40%, with disastrous consequences for its future. We stress here the Prime Minister's indifference, as was shown by his well-known interview with BILD. In this regard, he has sincerely stated that since liberation, on the one hand, opportunities are being created for German companies, on the other hand, workers will have to find something else to do. Is that a responsible attitude? Continuing, Caines had said: "When data changes, then I change my mind." What are you doing? According to this phrase given to the economist, the logic of today's bill was based on another energy environment that has now been overturned, and that will not be temporary, at least on the basis of the forecasts of the International Energy Agency, which we have here many times in the Minutes. So the government has to change its mind - as Kanes had quite rightly said - and the Prime Minister's reference to the recent debate in the House does not apply, where he claimed that lignite is not competitive. On the other hand, it is cheaper, at a cost of about 120 euros, together with the great charges of pollutants, compared to 230 euros and above the wholesale prices in Greece. The lignite of EUR 120, over EUR 230, the rest of the energy sources. We also consider the sale of lignite energy on the German stock exchange by PPC against 153,50 euros the megawatt, as we tabled in the Minutes, when the Greeks pay almost double. In any case, we feel justified in that we are the only and first to react to the violent withdrawal of lignite before the energy crisis occurs, and today we agree with our position as known entrepreneurs such as Mr Mytilinaios. Incidentally, in relation to the nonsense about the resolution of PPC, we all know that this is certainly not an achievement when, on the one hand, the NOMEs were automatically abolished at the end of 2019, which cost the company 600m euros, on the other hand, increased its sales prices. Even worse, it maintained increased sales prices at the expense of consumers in 2020, when the price of energy decreased to an average of EUR 40 because of the pandemic, preferring to import rather than produce, while it continued to sell the electricity at EUR 160 abruptly. Today, it passes the increased cost to consumers, when 2020 had not passed on to them the reduction, which means that it was self-evident to raise its share - no feat, under these conditions of the robbery of the Greeks, literally the Greeks - and it benefited only its shareholders, such as the excess of foreigners. Furthermore, the committees have asked many questions which, as usual, were not answered, and the most important thing was whether it was right to claim EBIKEN, the Energy Union. In this respect, EBIKEN argued in 2018 that, according to the provisions of the European Union, if lignite is exploited by industry, it is then exempted from the additional pollutant charge, it is of course sufficient for industries to sign bilateral forward contracts, OTC, with lignite plants. So we ask again, Mr Minister, is it true? Continuing with the contents of the draft law, in the first and second part of Articles 1 to 16, which stipulates degreasing as its purpose, the procedural way in which it is implemented, with the establishment of committees, with recruitment to the Ministry and with the establishment of "METAVICATION S.A." for 20 years together with its statute. In the third part and in Articles 17 to 19, the urban plans of the regions concerned are defined. The fourth part and Articles 20 to 26 deal with the details of degreasement, for example, the construction of RES in the areas, the acceptance of deposits, the demolition of demolition materials, the delimitation of water, the financial packages - which, of course, are not mentioned - and the anecdotes of district heating, under the current technical and financial data, especially in Greece. The fifth part and Articles 27 to 31 refer to the segregation and transition of the defoliation areas from PPC, as well as to the conditions of construction, while it is noted that the sixty-four thousand acres will be separated from PPC with the total area of the defoliation zones in the two hundred and seven thousand acres. In some articles now, I would like to point out the following: Article 9 states that as commander of the Special Development Agency, ADM, he is a person of a high-scientific establishment, without saying specifically whether he must have a technical, economic or other training. The interest, however, is that it is directly appointed by the Prime Minister - directly by the Prime Minister! - as well as by the Minister responsible. So we have reasonably concluded that this is a party position. From the General Accounting Office of the State, we have found that the commander will cost EUR 80,000 annually or about EUR 5,700 a month for fourteen salaries, while his office - in the next article - will cost another EUR 270,000. A total of EUR 350,000 with a Minister's decision every three years! Isn't it peculiarly unacceptable? In Article 11 we have seen that the salaries of the 20 people of ADM will be EUR 500,000 and the central agency of EUR 370,000, while in paragraph 4 it states that the directors and heads of ADM's organic units will be placed directly by the Minister. Direct awards, ordinary ones. So was it absurd, then, to conclude that this would be a completely party instrument for the settlement of people of the Minister? Article 15 refers to the establishment of the company "METAVATION S.A.", which, while having similar functions to the Ministry's PAM service, is the sole shareholder of the State, is supervised by the State, and is appointed by the Minister's director, namely, as a legal entity governed by private law and not as a legal entity governed by public law. Next paradox is the reference to the preamble, according to which the work of “MATTER S.A.” takes precedence over other public bodies, especially PPC, as it writes, OTE and PPC. Well, didn't we ask that? Since when is OTE a public company, since it is private and controlled by DEUTSCHE TELEKOM? Are we officially the seventeenth Federal State of Germany? Wasn't our question reasonable? In any case, we have seen too many creative ambiguities in the articles of its statute, where there is no time to mention in detail, except that there is nowhere to represent local societies on its board. We consider this to be an unacceptable government blow. So they must not accept it and local communities must react. We repeat: local communities must not accept it and must react, protecting their interests. The most important article in its statute is 23, which allows the company to enter into loans with the Minister's agreement, while the State can provide a guarantee through the Minister. It is not even possible to enter into loans with mortgages on its fixed assets, which may be large areas, through which rights could be acquired to the lignite in these territories, if the guarantees are abolished. In this respect, we stressed the need to exclude the right to register mortgages, and in no case only with the approval of the Minister concerned. Furthermore, Article 17 confers the right to exploit the defoliation zones, ZAP, to PPC, by drawing up urban plans. In other words, a private company that does not belong to Greece, but to the supranational and private shareholders, will draw up urban plans within Greece, on an area of two hundred forty-seven thousand acres that either owns or is distributed free of charge without even being informed of the state and the communities. Furthermore, as laid down in Article 29, mining rights in PPC remain on these territories. Isn't it scandalous? In Article 18, the arbitrage and immunity of the former continues, as with the additions of paragraph 1, the intervention area may extend to adjacent areas of municipalities. Therefore, the exclusion of local societies and OTAs during the transition that is only not fair is extended, and that is why the title ‘fair’ has been chosen according to the well-known methods of Gobels. In Article 21, the waste of combustion, the ash, is called by paragraph 2'sub-product', where we all know that the difference is huge. We have asked, then, whether there is a study to establish that ashes are not dangerous - of course not the same study as the pandemic does not fit into buses - so it can be dispersed into pavements, pipelines, mortars and so on, as the bill says. Isn't that the ash that was accused by the economists of dangerous damage to the region? Now will it be placed as a by-product, baptized as a by-product, in buildings, streets and others? Is this not an environmental hypocrisy of maximum size? I'm hanging up with Article 27. This is one of the pillars of the bill, since it refers to the transfer of the land of the lignite mines from PPC by separating it to a new company. These deposits are the property of the Greek citizens who used the once public PPC to produce energy, which means that they must no longer belong to it, but not even manage them, as is provided for in the current draft law on urban planning. In addition, many questions arise, such as what their valuation is, which, in paragraph 4, is said to be - to be done, not yet - and also from whom it will be assessed and how it will be done. For example, will they be considered as land with ashes and thus of limited value or as land with deposits, so huge value? That's a big difference between the two. Finally, we sincerely consider this to be the most scandalous bill the government has ever submitted. I repeat, it is the most scandalous bill that the government has ever submitted to date, which seems to be rushing to sell Greece as much as, obviously, following the orders of creditors who do not expect it to be re-elected. Besides, creditors always do that after our condemnation of the memorials. They take advantage of each government while maintaining its popularity, plundering Greece at the same time and then, when they no longer need it, they throw it into the trash. I literally repeat it, they're throwing it in the trash. If one were to ask Mr Papandreou, Mr Samaras and Mr Tsipras - if, of course, they would answer - this bitterness would be collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u35	The list of speakers with the special speaker from Mera25, Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, will be closed. Immediately afterwards, he will get - after consultation - the reason for Mr Velopopoulos and the Minister next. Parliamentary representatives have so far expressed their wish that Mr Karathanasopoulos should speak at noon, but Parliamentarians are asking for the floor whenever they think they are. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Congressmen and Members, Minister, this bill legislates a newly-needed, cleansed law. The government that currently represents the country and owes it to these people who have lived in a low quality of environment, have lost their lives from cancer, so that all of us can have electricity at home, is now avenged by these heroes, as it does with any other hero. First they applaud them and then treat them accordingly. The issue of this bill is frustration, but what the bill brings is the population devastation of western Macedonia and Megalopolis. Is frustration inevitable? Of course, and it's inevitable. It should have started before, in order to be organised, to make a fair transition. It is inevitable, because the whole world, and our country together, are obliged to survive to fight against climate collapse. It's not depriving the issue. It's carbonisation. And you'll see what a big difference it makes, because the government takes out the lignite to bring us the most drastic even gas, which will burn it, and bring us the incineration of waste. It has nothing to do with the debate here with carbonisation. It puts us very deeply, locks us in carbon technologies, because it will make new investments, new activities, and it will obviously take at least thirty-five years to withdraw. Instead, the frustration of making a green transition makes it black again in carbon. That is the environmental issue. The shocking issue, however, that we are discussing here is the population desertification of western Macedonia and Megalopolis. Is it avoidable? Yeah, a percent is avoidable. What you legislate, the desertification that you legislate with this bill, is avoidable. I want to tell you quite simply how it may not be done, how desertification can be avoided. Firstly, with the restoration of the territories. Rehabilitation of land allows us to keep the same workers who are currently employed in earthmoving, the lignite mines doing the same for the next ten years. It takes so much to make this restoration that we should do, because the UN defines it, we are experiencing the decade of environmental restoration. The UN tells us that the most important thing we have to do at the moment in the face of climate collapse is to restore environmental damage. And what area is emblematic in Greece, from Ptolemais, from Kosani, from Amynene and Megalopolis? If we were to go ahead with the restoration, we would have solved for the next ten years the large part of the income collapse, we would have relieved all these families who live without income, who owe loans, who lose their homes and lose the right to live in their country. But it's not just what we can do. In addition to this, we can convert lignite plants into thermal storage units, as the bodies told us at the hearing, with technologies currently used in solar thermals and elsewhere and tested for the conversion of lignite plants. We could keep the same number of employees in the units instead of tearing them down to pull them together, as the bill describes. Convert them to green units that will be used for heat storage. What are we saving? Energy. Where does this energy come from? From what we should do, which the European Commission even tells us in its 2019 report. What's that? The photovoltaics on the rooftops and roofs of the houses - where a large part is consumed in these houses - can produce more than 33% of the energy we consume, dramatically huge sums. Therefore, a large part is consumed in households - which thus escape from the accuracy - and the rest is dispersed into the network. But let's see where the networks are right now? The networks connect all Greece with western Macedonia and Megalopolis. There are the networks. There's the storage that can be done so that we can collect the energy from the photovoltaics in the houses in the morning, so we can dispose of it, use it at night plus anything else we need to save. At the moment, we are talking about the Recovery Fund. And yet, there is no word about what needs to be done just to save these people who lose their income and their homes in the lignite regions. If today - and this is a proposal that I formally submit and present as Mera25 - from the Recovery Fund, a programme was financed for the energy upgrading of each first home in western Macedonia and Megalopolis, we would have had a reduction in the cost of living for the victims of liberation, but at the same time, we would have had full financial support for the region. Just think about what the energy upgrade of buildings means. A "Economia" for all the first residences in western Macedonia and Megalopolis means that plumbers, people who are involved in insulations, aluminides, electricians, boycotts, all of them will need to work massively for this huge project. We will have small businesses and self-employed people really have a shocking increase in their incomes, a boom development project in the region that can counteract, combat this economic and population desertification that you bring to the place. At the same time, this programme should have the installation of photovoltaics on rooftops and roofs on houses and apartments. What does that mean? It means that these people would not only have reduced their cost of living, not only would all professions have been active, but they would become household energy producers. They would have defensive against these huge waves of precision you bring, they would have partial supplementation of the lost income. With these three measures, restoring the damaged areas, changing the use of lignite units and the great "Enhance by House" with the parallel installation of photovoltaics in each household, every first home, we would make no fair transition, we would restore injustice in the place. We would have a region which is now going to be the leading growth rate in Greece. These three measures, of course, have a problem. Their problem is that they do not serve three, four, five known businesses. They serve the victims of liberation, the heroes who gave their lives for so many years, lost people in their homes, lived in a degraded environment, so that all of us can have energy. And now that we don't need them anymore for electricity generation - that's what you're telling us? So we call on you to change your course and adopt these three essential proposals. What do you do instead of that? Instead of environmental restoration, you are transferring PPC's responsibility for rehabilitating the territory to the public, where you do not give any resource to carry it out, so you do not go to environmental restoration. How else do you not go? But because you change the use, without environmental rehabilitation, you give the land, you divide it, some for large photovoltaics, some for various large-scale investments for the benefit of specific private individuals, large companies, always with zero jobs to be produced or fewer, in the order of tens. Why do you relieve PPC? Because you're hurting her, do you want the Public Power Corporation to be saved and not have that burden? Obviously not. You exempt it because you do not want it to be public, because you have abolished "Delta", you have done it "EI", you have abolished "Delta", because you privatize it. If it were to be a public company, obviously you wouldn't relieve it, because your main view is that the costs are borne by the public and the benefits of private individuals, the big private ones, not to be confused. You transfer through environmental permits and all permits for lignite mining PPC's obligation to make environmental restoration to the State, to sell PPC, to the private customer who buys PPC. But you are telling us that the solution, now that the lignite is gone, is natural gas. Is district heating gone? We'll connect the households with natural gas. This is your big solution. I explained to you in all the previous speeches that you are taking us back against this era, taking us into technologies outdated. The UK in 2025 starts banning the use of natural gas in heating in new dwellings. The European Commission has announced that it will gradually withdraw the use of gas in heating in residential areas. The European Union in 2035 withdraws the last new car using natural gas from the roads, Belgium since 2027, China and others also have corresponding targets. And yesterday Mr Georgiadis came to tell me personally that I have to support the nuclears to say this. Mr Georgiadis, we understand every day how consciously Mr Mitsotakis is being criminalised, when he gives all the responsibilities for the transition, for the green transition - as you want to call it - to tackle climate change in the Ministry of Development, which has no head to know the basics for climate change, the basics for huge climate change. I am personally fighting against nuclear energy, in particular, and against nuclear power plants in Turkey, Akkuyu, where your Government is completely blinding, despite the violation of Turkey's international obligations and the piece of information and security issues. You, if a gentleman arrives tomorrow with a briefcase and makes you an investment proposal for a nuclear investment, you will tell him "yes", you are ready to say "yes", not you personally, your government. But what else is the government doing here? He's building a fair transition body, a transition agent, to coordinate all the work in the abstract areas, to save the world over there. And where does he obviously make him? You'll all imagine he's made him in Ptolemais, like this, or he's made him, anyway, in Megalopolis. But he puts him in Athens. The body responsible for whether thousands of people in western Macedonia will have to go to Thessaloniki and Athens to find work and leave their place, because they will not have to eat, see all this everyday life and manage it from Athens. Are you serious? Obviously, one of your concerns is communication with the businessmen who will take the spoils of the destruction you are creating. That's why in Athens. It is not going to be a body that will deal with the victims of liberation. He is a body to deal with the looting of the victims, plundering the place. So it must be in Athens away from control, without any participation, but what can it control when these are planned? Why do we need these three measures, the immediate restoration of the environment, land restoration, the reuse of lignite units with their green energy storage, energy savings of buildings with parallel installation of photovoltaics in each household in western Macedonia and Megalopolis? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We need them to earn time, because your governments, both governments, have not planned this fair transition. We haven't heard here one thing that stands and does a structured vision for the next day, giving a development solution. We believe that these areas should be - and, if you want, now that you have the Recovery Fund, finance it with the Recovery Fund - the areas of production, research and technology in the sectors of peaks, which are not gas, are not waste incineration, are not what you bring which are banned and which are no longer financed, such as combustion, by the European Commission, because they are now denounced. These are energy storage technologies, they are technologies for producing decentralised RES, they are the technologies for hydrogen. These state-of-the-art technologies must be strengthened with a public infrastructure that, with the support of universities, will be able to host small and large companies in order to be able to do research and technology, so that public research and production in the area can also be done in the area of cutting edge technologies, the ones that we really need as a country to meet the noble talk, if you like, but also in the struggle for who will be able to make the transition first technologically. Because the real green transition is what you always forget, the protection of our natural ecosystems, that has left us standing by nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u37	Mr Arseni, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude very soon, Mr President. It's impressive that you're looting this place. And it's impressive because they're places that have supported you repeatedly with their vote. So someone would expect you to take care of these places a little bit more. You plunder them, because you think these people are yours and that you can do whatever you want them to. You plunder them and believe that they will applaud you again, you believe they will lose their homes and that they will applaud you again. That is why you exclude them from any codecision procedure, which should be the 'heart of' of the next day. However, I would like to close by addressing SYRIZA as well as a question I have asked over and over, but I have not received an answer. We have heard Mr Tsipras say that in the context of a progressive governance that calls for it to be done it is against privatization of PPC. Will a progressive SYRIZA government bring the renationalisation of PPC? Will these shares be bought again or are we just against privatization in words? What is the consequence of opposition to privatisation? What are the tangible steps in which the public character of PPC will be restored? Are you in favour of renationalisation, yes or no? On the subject of PPC and the accuracy - and I conclude with it - the law brought by SYRIZA provided for the energy stock exchange that New Democracy is putting into effect and the limit value. What does the limit price provide for? That the marginal cost, that is, the cost of energy production is one of the most expensive ways of producing energy. It's what you want to do, you see, in lignite areas, natural gas production. If this is the most expensive cost of production, then so will it cost the citizens and production from cheap hydroelectric. What does that mean? That the difference in costs of gas production with hydroelectricity is benefiting from the private producer and not even 1 cent is benefiting the citizen. That is why the huge prices in households, which is why the huge increases. Will SYRIZA’s progressive governance abolish the limit value? Will it abolish the energy stock exchange? Will it bring change to politics? Will the words become an act or will the people who are in ministries and the owners of ministerial cars simply change? That is the big question. So I'm just hanging up with the stuff. We are voting against this bill because it is fornicated. At the moment and in this House, you are legislating an unprecedented move of populations, something that only happened in the Civil War. You are causing economic desolation by closing lignite, which you are right to do, but also giving these people a way out. The way out is the restoration of land, the change in the use of lignite units, their greening, energy savings in buildings and in all first housing and PV roofs, in order to mobilise the economy, keep jobs, strengthen incomes. You do not, because your aim is to serve five people, five businessmen, and to dismantle everything else, and to make Western Macedonia a wasteland. We won't support you. We vote against it with all our strength and we will fight you in this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u39	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, now has the floor. As has already been announced, the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanasis, will follow and then we will start with the list of speakers. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you really are a party that we should welcome or better admit and accept that you are acting like the Cardinals in the Catholic Church or as priests of the Catholic Church. You are baptizing the fish meat and you are trying to convince us of everything you say, which is both refreshing and utopian and lame. The truth is that the work is easy for you, because all the media are with you. So, you make one truth, one truth according to how it suits you. So the truth is made as one wants, but the lie is made. You are what I often say "the end intimacy" of defiance and lies. With the truth, then, all the data are in a harmonious agreement. The lie quickly comes dissent and conflict with the truth. And what falseer of fighting with a bill the lignite and at the same time working the lignite plants. So, or you are unable to implement the bill that you are defending, the ligniteification - as you want to impose - or you constantly lie in the world, because they need lignites and without them there is no energy, there is no electricity, there is no fuel. It is a post-human era, as we call 'Meta-human', as we call 'Meta-culture', as we call 'the post-mortem'. Those who govern Greece today do not look at today, look at the aftermath. But today is connected to energy in many of its expressions in everyday life. From the current that the man will open in his home to warm up in winter, from the current that the company will open to enable it to function, from the current we will use in our home to read at night or watch TV. What you're doing is criminal, really criminal. And I'll tell you for what reasons. The electricity generation cost now that we are talking has exceeded the cost of producing lignite. It's more expensive to generate power from other energy reserves than lignite. The megawatt in November was over 190 euros. In November the gas price was EUR 100 and the carbon dioxide emission cost at EUR 90. At the same time, the cost of lignite pollutants is at EUR 120 - I give you data to understand that you are making a tragic mistake - while a gas unit is at EUR 168 per megawatt. We paid 140 million euros for the introduction of lignite. Which is hypocrisy! This country, Greece, has huge lignite deposits, which you want to abolish. About EUR 227 billion and EUR 300 billion conservatives have been decided by experts from both IGM and geologists, like PPC, that it is the value of the deposits. And you throw it in the trash like it's your own property. Do you know why we were importing electricity, gentlemen of the New Democracy? You're a fan of wind turbines, which is ecological. But these, Mr rapporteur of the New Democracy, neither do you know himself and I imagine that you cannot even know why it is not your specialty - I do not know why you are rapporteur in any case - are made of rare earths and wind turbines cannot be recycled and buried in many countries and in Africa. What climate are you talking about, what environment are you talking about? The windshield fans! Because the wind turbines you planted throughout Greece in the burnt - and not only - produced electricity only 12.5% because of apnea, we imported electricity. And they come today to tell us that we must abolish everything to fill with wind turbines. I say: All Greece is to be filled with wind turbines, it is not going to produce the electricity that Greece consumes. Three and a half thousand people, three and a half thousand souls and their families, I ask the Members of the New Democracy who are paid, like me, with five grand a month how they will survive. I'm asking you. How? You know, there's an indiscriminate concept in the New Democracy about extreme neoliberalism, that everything is regulated by the market. You're wrong. In times of pandemic and in times of crisis, and in times of bankruptcy, they are not regulated by the market because the market has been dismantled because of what I have said. So there is a need for state patriotism and interventionism. That's what we're telling you. I shall not, of course, mention the crime that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have committed to canceling the country's gas extraction. What was the need for this declaration to be made abroad when we have a global energy crisis, while the apothecary - I will say it directly - on the planet uses lignite and natural gas and makes mining? Already Iran, together with Russia - and Italy, is on the verge of this, and Spain - agreed, in the biggest look of the Caspian Caspian, to take account of the natural gas in the region there. And you don't want gas! If you are so rich and you have 300 billion euros in your pocket, give it to the Greek people and don't mining. Last year PPC sold megawatt to households for 160 euros. However, the price at 30 euros and the average price of the year was at EUR 40. That's called a waste of money. And because they sold the current dearly to the Greek since last year, we were told that the price of the share is increasing and that the gentlemen of the New Democracy applauded it, as if the price rise of PPC's share would go into Greek's pocket. The company is a company. The Greek man who does not have to warm up, the Greek businessman who cannot produce cheap products to compete with, what will he say? That "I'm going to eat an increased share price of PPC" or say "I don't have to eat"? I could say other things. But, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you really don't care, and that's what bothers me. In the debate of a very important bill, such as this, which all Members of Parliament should be here, because we are talking about the future of the country's energy, we are talking about lignite, about oil, about gas, about energy, and most of us are missing and left here the two 'Dioskouros' of the New Democracy and the Minister to defend the poor choice of abolishing rallies. Clearly, we are in favour of climate change, climate change and oxygen. But who do they talk? Those who for sixty years have built a monsoon city called Athens, where people cannot live normally, a monster town called Thessaloniki, anarchistly structured, imprisoned, polluted, with torrents, closed in the way ‘yes’. They're talking about the planet's climate and atmosphere! Everyone has become economists all of a sudden and everyone wants to solve the problem of climate change! Gentlemen of the New Democracy, there are many kinds of lies and lies. There are three in my view that New Democracy is a champion: the customary ones, with which you have brainwashed every day through the media to the Greek people, the destructive lies that are with your policy and the statistics with her lies, since you cook numbers every day from the economy, society, politics and the coronary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask, Mr Minister, an answer: what does our country need to go quickly to liberation? Tell me why you're in a hurry. That's what I want to understand. When China, the world's most energetic country, like the United States, such as Poland and Germany in the European Union, transferred the liberation of their countries for later, why should we now be? Clearly, save energy, put hydroelectric, put whatever you want. But I wonder about the crime you have committed to saying 'no' to the extraction of natural gas. I'm sorry about this crime. There is therefore an attempt by China to close nuclear plants. I get it. Stop producing energy from lignite and carbon. Stop using oil. That is what the fans of climate change and the New Democracy say. That's not true. The conts between the Philippines, Japan and China are about the potential deposits that the region has and that's why they're killing each other. The conflict between the country called the United States and Russia has to do with potential deposits in the North Pole. The conflict between the Mediterranean, Egypt, Israel, Cyprus, Greece and Turkey has to do with the potential deposits of the Mediterranean. Who are you kidding? Because you have the media with you? Tomorrow morning we will stop all the oil on the earth, all the gas and fill the whole planet with "forgers" will never solve the energy issue. I call on the Prime Minister, I call on all of us, to go to Florina, to Kosani, to go to western Macedonia. That's where the families lived from this job. People ask for work, they're not awkward. What are we gonna do to them? Thieves? Should they start stealing, too, scrubbing? How will their children survive? Aren't anyone interested in here, son? No one cares about the Greek? Anything? Wind power, solar energy. I ask all of you: why are your rapporteurs and the Minister of New Democracy not saying that last year in the United States, Texas has fallen into the trap of reducing oil extraction - because it is a oil-mining region - and they have put huge photovoltaics in it. Because it was snowy, they couldn't even work the photovoltaics collecting energy. For 11 days they had a continuous blackout. That's last year. Why don't you just say that and hide it? Tell me why. It is no coincidence that most of your friends place "forgets" throughout Greece. I'm afraid so. For us - I will say raw - the service of oligarchs, the service of party choices, the service of friends and besties is not above Greek's health, from the life of the Greek. That is our stated view. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So the government must respond to a dilemma: subsidies or lignite. What does the government say? Precise the current, I'll subsidize the power. Minister, where will you get the money? Loan. There's no money. Unless Mr Stavros found out 'leaf trees'. The electricity is subsidised by borrowers. So you did not tell the Greek that "I give you 200, 300 euros, but you will give them back to me in one, two years of interest". Have the courage, have the courage to say "we are unable to produce wealth, we will produce only debts for Greece and the Greeks". Say it. Economic policy subsidised means overcompensation both of the state and of the citizen. Why? We'll have new deficits. What do we tell you? We have an energy war. Firstly, there is greater involvement of lignite in the country's energy mix. You're doing it now. You opened lignite plants because you saw the blackout coming. You did it. The bill why did you bring it now? Secondly, if lignites are activated, prices will fall. It makes sense because it is now more important for lignites to function than to import gas or import oil. We will ensure, therefore, and adequacy in winter and summer. PPC must set yesterday in a hot reserve operation. Those who have dealt with this matter know what I mean, those who have not dealt with it, it's okay, they come here and say ideas reports. So the dilemma that is born is what many times tell me “and what you would do”? I remember - and ask Mr Maniotis, I repeat this here, Minister, look for a little bit at your Ministries - in 2010-2011, with Mr. Maniotis, in an effort we made together to extract gas and oil in the country and the plots and all that - I have been calling out here since 2007 - the storage area west of Prinos, the huge look that has been exhausted, Minister. This was co-financed by the European Union. There were studies, there were all. Since 2011, 2012, Minister, it has remained in drawers, i.e. to have storage space, ready for storage. You're not doing anything else. Because I was listening to the rapporteur of the New Democracy talking about storage. But we can't save it. We have no reason, because the gentlemen of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL have never done so. So there's Thassos west of Thassos. That's where we could store oil. And if you were listening to the Greek Solution, Minister - here you were more than a year ago when I said to you 'it is cheap oil and gas, save or buy' - we would have won about EUR 5 billion today. We would have EUR 5 billion to have them as a lever - would you like? Amortizer, you want springs?- Development. So let's go to the question. Let me even a Greek answer: Is it worth sacrificing EUR 227 billion of lignite to collect up to EUR 70 billion, as New Democracy says, from the European Union with the Recovery Fund? Listen, gentlemen, the numbers are numbers. The value is EUR 272 billion, EUR 72 billion you will get, you have a deficit of EUR 200 billion. Where are you going to get them? We live in an environmental hypocrisy, all of us. They burn forests to put on wind turbines and they say it's ecology. They are placed photovoltaics on fertile land on the mother Greek land. The other talks about ecology and has i-phone, which is done by rare earths. The other talks about ecology and uses a gas or gasoline engine. Shame on you! We come here and play it all ecologicalists. The lignite-fired countries therefore pay clauses, but by financing from these clauses, photovoltaics and wind turbines. Who's buying? Let me tell you, Germany. The country's lignite reserves are enough for forty-five years, they offer great energy autonomy, they offer national sovereignty. Country bankrupt, country of energy dependant, it ceases to be a sovereign country. Understood. It's just things. It's simple. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now, listen, because some things need to be done exactly as they stand and not as we would like it to be. What the rest of the countries have done, so that we do not get here, to pay 230 euros for the current, when others pay 100, 130, 150, 160 euros. The gas flows have increased. Listen to the crime the government has committed. The Prime Minister has a special obsession with the European Union. I understand that. Yesterday, he went to Putin and from behind he had European flags, he didn't have the Greek. It has one Greek, one European, one Greek, one European. He thought he was the Commission representative when he spoke with Mr Putin. He was a representative of Greece! Official visit! What was the European flag doing behind it? When Merkel went, she had the German. I would therefore say, and I understand that, why had most countries bought gas and waited for the Prime Minister from the European Union to do what our country did not do, namely a market? You don't want mining. And what did you do? You've reached the point of returning to the lignite. You went, you learned, you miserable, you returned to the lignite. Who pays the difference? The Greek people. Wrong. In Germany, listen, EUR 71,87 the megawatt, in Poland EUR 73,36, in Czech Republic EUR 79, in Slovakia EUR 79, in Greece EUR 240! Well done, hello to the Greek! To be voted on by the neo-democrats and say good, no matter what you're wrong, no matter what you're wrong, I'm a party, and it's over. It's not like that. We, as a Greek Solution, do not consent to your lies. You remember Lincoln's saying. Here's what Lincoln said to understand what New Democracy is doing. How many feet does a dog have? Four. Isn't that what we all say? If we call the tail a foot, what's the dog called? Or how many feet will the dog have? Five, one will say, four. So saying the tail 'foot' does not make it a foot. By wanting the lie to make it true, you're wrong. We will not continue with that logic. Now listen to the worst. Because you are a government that through its failure does not understand the reality that the Greek people are facing and because you constantly attempt with half the truths and lies to create the sense of a successful situation, yesterday the UN issued a communication that none of the channels you control - well be it the channels and money, but also the PSE that does not impose fines - did not announce it. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has spoken about methods of coercive enforcement and the fine imposed by many countries, between countries and Greece - and I am referring to the coronary. Where penalties are imposed they should be proportionate and should be subject to judicial review. That's what the UN said. All the channels have buried it! You have buried it. Also, what you did not respect - and that is more disturbing and I will say straight away - is that even in Denmark, which we had as a model - and I had it as a model - a country model for vaccinations, was vaccinated 99.9% of the population. Standard-country, for citizens' consciousness and persuasion that the government has succeeded in persuading them to make the vaccine. Today, then, Denmark - now listen - has been blocking you with 99% vaccination, has gone to lockdown. Denmark's closed. Isn't that what concerns you followers of forced vaccination? Doesn't it bother you? Is there nothing on the mind to think about, but are you sending the saint to the world to make outdated vaccines? Yesterday I had complaints of seventeen people from the saint who went to vaccine, had expired a couple of days ago and automatically said "It's okay, let's go. That's all right.' You go and make outdated vaccines, you gentlemen, you who impose the obligation. But are these serious things? Because Mr. Ploris went out this morning and "shooted" to SYRIZA - and I did not understand why the rest of us - about the ITHs and he said he was going to the prosecutor. Wait, Minister, wait a minute. It's tragic and hypocritical to talk about a prosecutor when you, as a government, introduced the impunity to every committee you've ever done. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's hypocrisy, it's arrogant behaviour of a minister, who doesn't understand that you can't go to the prosecutor about what Giannakos said about the ICUs, as if we didn't know that even before the coronary needed political "pig", MP or hospital commander, to find a ICU, much now that the Prime Minister himself admitted from the Step of the House that it's okay, we don't have an ICU, people stay out in the hallway. That's how he said it here in the House, it's not an IF, but it's something else. And we're not ashamed? Aren't you embarrassed? Aren't you ashamed to tell the citizen that you're paying tax, I bankrupt your country, but I don't have a IMD, you're staying in the hallway on a ranch? These are embarrassing things in a serious society. There is really something - and I must say it here - much more rare and more important than skill. It's the ability to discover and recognize each other's ability. The Greek Solution, therefore, recognizes the New Democracy's ability to constantly make the white, lying truth and yellow orange. Well done, you're capable of everything. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I would like here, in order to close and not tire you, to say that I have in front of me a letter from the Hellenic Region Information Television Association, which complains about the lack of the PSE. It's the union of all regional stations. The channel owners themselves are on the PSE, but the government is raining. Unfortunately, the problem has not been solved. On the contrary, he's escalated. In recent years the PSE has imposed financial penalties which do not take into account the current economic circumstances, but also the sizes and capabilities of regional television. It is not possible to impose fines of EUR 35,000 and EUR 50,000 on regional channels with an annual turnover of EUR 50,000. Mr. Kutruman, who doesn't know what work it means. A life of service to justice was. It didn't work out a little bit. Ninety thousand euros, he says. Because it is obvious that the PSE is leading us to close down. It is the Union of regional channels, and it says 'hyperoga and unresponsively fines'. This will have an impact on the entire industry, since even the transfer of DIGEA’s remuneration, as expected, will be disastrous. That's what people and I have been saying for a year and a half to preserve their function. Mr. Coutronan cannot impose fines everywhere. I'm saying it myself. So the owners of all regional channels themselves came to protest. And I'll tell him something. He has to choose, he really has to choose, because the high positions are like the steep rocks and are in a high position placed by the New Democracy - the choice of Mr. Koutromanou is personal - but on the steep rocks he goes two species: one is the eagles and the other is the reptiles. Let's choose who they are. Is it with eagles and legality or with reptiles? At some point let him decide. Unfortunately, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you failed. For a year now, I've been hitting a danger code. The day before yesterday, I was discredited by Mr Papathanassis - the head of the FED, the well-known American group that prints money anyway, told Congress that it is open to a faster reduction in the bond market. Markets, he says, see an exponential shift, more chance of increasing interest rates. The European Banking Authority sees risks to systemic banks. I have been telling you this for a year, Mr New Democracy, that if interest rates increase, we were all burned together, Minister. Where are you going to borrow from? Now you borrow at zero interest rates and more and load them on the debt. If they get up to 6%, 7%, 8% interest rates, we all burned together. And because some were happy to see Erdogan collapsed, he went and took $55 billion from Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, because Turkey would never let her collapse, unlike Greece. So, friends and friends, all the things that are happening, the question is clear. Today that we are talking about Greece, which is pleased with the New Democracy, it is still BB and Turkey is B+. What does that mean? That we're worse than Turkey, hungry and going to the supermarkets to get water, get oil. We're worse than them. Do you understand? And instead of doing something together as a political system, with a programme, to help the government and the Prime Minister - I have said a thousand times - for the primary sector to do something about the goodwill he gives, you hear no one. It will save us, says, the European Union. No one's gonna save us. They're happy, he says, with the absorption of the NRP. Minister of the New Democracy, Minister, dared to twit, saying you were the best in absorption. And underneath it said: “From 2016 to 2020 it was.” You were not in 2016, were you government? The Minister of New Democracy was pleased to be the first to absorb with the 2016-2020 figures! Hey, say good for them. But, you know, Minister, I have an objection. The ESRB is a project for the development of the country, not to recruit the public, not to pay allowances and wages from there. So, it's not an N.S.S.A. That's not S.H.I.E.L.D. This is 'I'm making a site for the Ministry', 'I'm taking a bus. It's not a N.S.S.A. NSRF means giving money for public investment, for investment projects, I give money for growth, not wages and allowances. This is our ideological difference, Minister, and I know that you agree with me, because it is a bankrupt option. The ESDP is a tool for others. And thirdly, you come and bring in a bill now. Do you know what you're doing with the new bill that'll load the owners of the climate, he says, upgrade the buildings? Three million Greek homes will have to pay at least EUR 20,000 to EUR 100,000 to make them climately correct and able to transfer them. Three million homes, ladies and gentlemen! The new law you bring this says that there should also be changes in houses to judge their upgrades. It takes 20 grand a hundred-square house to make this upgrade. If she's older, she wants 50, 70, 80. Where will the Greek find them? What are you going to do? Three million houses in the hammer? Gentlemen of the New Democracy, I'll tell you raw. No lie can take time. You live an illusion, but this illusion of bliss is the nightmare of the Greeks for the hunger that comes, the poverty that holds the Greek and his misery. We're the ones hitting the alarm. Worse days are coming in the next few months. We will be consistent here with arguments, proposals and, above all, - I will say it raw and understandable - without any connection to a complexion, without any connection with ground, without any connection with big-fashioned rulers, to call out loud and Greek 'First Greece. First the Greeks. Stimulate Greece and the Greeks, to return them to you for a thousand days back."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u41	After the Step is cleared, we will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr. Papathanassis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are discussing today the draft law on a fair development transition and issues relating to the liberation process. To begin with, I would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Catherides, for the very detailed and coherent presentation of the bill. At the same time, because, as I have said before, in the bills a cucumber cannot bring in spring, I think I would also like to thank the group that has worked hard, Mr Kavala, the Secretary-General, Mrs Tsironi, Mrs Pantelopoulou, my colleagues, as well as Mr Mousouroulis, who is under obligation in Brussels today, but also partners such as Mrs Mayonatou, who is here today in the Chamber, Mr George, for the very hard work they have done throughout this consultation. I was rather expecting - and during the committees today during the debate - to hear the major opposition to present its plan, to discuss what it has done, about what it is planning. I was expecting "glove the glove", Mrs Perka, Mr Famele, to tell us "That's what we did. We're the radical left. We have sensitivities around the environment and we have done so much" and the centre-right component to answer and say 'yes, we have not done so much'. So what you said about what you were doing, what you are going to do, obviously there was no glove. So we turn around and "fly the glove", tell us what it is that you did not do and that you wanted to do and tell you what it is that we did, what it is what we are doing and what we are going to do. Because it is the first time in the history of this place that a great subject has been discussed in the Greek Parliament in a serious way, involving the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. And I'm really sorry. And we will talk about consultation, about lignite production, about what happened, what happened, about reducing the population, about what programmes we ran for four and a half years, what negotiation you made, what resources you received, what funding you received. But what shocks me sincerely, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is that today you are not even reserved for voting on an article or for saying that you are supporting an article in the bill. I'll answer you with images. That's what you're not voting on, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. This lunar landscape and its conversion into a sustainable surface that people can live on, their children to live. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I show these to you to remember what you did not vote on today. You have not voted today and I am presenting them to the House. This picture is supported and continues to be supported, because you have not come to tell us one action here, Mr Famelos, as Deputy Minister, who was responsible for a ministerial decision, shortly before the Greeks decided that he should not be in the government. I submit them just to see what you are not voting on today, because history is also written here. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Nikolaos Papathanases presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis in 2019 made a decision, a decision that Greece had to come forward, move on to a fair development transition, because that was exactly what was coming and that we should run faster than things. This decision was justified and vindicated because immediately after the decision by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the European Union itself came and revised the level of pollutants, and from 40% it went to 55% for 2030. This Prime Minister's decision, however, enabled us to make a start, this principle which was not made and had never been made in the history of this place. Because we all saw that defoliation was coming. Because right now that we are talking about nothing has changed from lignite production, nothing has changed. What we've received from you is right now. And I want you to take the floor later and tell me one thing you did. And I've told you the statistics here that it was reduced during your governance, Mrs. Perka, by 54% lignite production.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u43	But I answered that in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u44	Okay, well, let's talk to you again, we're not a committee, we're in Parliament. Because you're looking at other things, you're looking at them wrong. Also, the population of the region decreased by 12 thousand inhabitants, three thousand each year, and you were indifferent. And because I said that I will respond to specific points, starting with the basics you have raised, and of importance, because through the discussion and analysis of these issues we will see what we, what we do and what we will do, we will talk about the very good work that Mr Mousouroulis' group has done. Because immediately after the Prime Minister's decision, the Greek state decided and set up a committee under Mr Mousouroulis. Listen to consultation and keep notes, you need them. Public consultation, 4-9-2020, completion of a preliminary draft. 7-9-2020 preliminary discussion with technical groups in the region of Western Macedonia. 3-9-2020, recommendation for a reformed draft debate in the Coordinating Committee. For the Coordinating Committee you know very well, because if you enter www.sdam.gr, you will find everything. You will find the whole course of the discussion and what has happened. 3-9-2020 debate on a reformed draft. 9-9-2020 DSSM project presentation at a press conference. Obviously as a party you heard the press conferences. 3-10-2020 launch of institutional public consultation as 10-11-2020. 4-10-2020 posted on sdam.gr all of the material. 22-10-2020 organisation by ENTERPRISE GREECE and the Website Coordinating Committee, DAM Entrepreneurship Forum and New Business Opportunities. Forty days the consultation lasted, forty days, and it was posted. And I told you, I'm reading the dates, I'll give it to you. I will submit to the committee the whole draft of the consultation, the comments and everything that has been done. I will also present to you the press conference, the consultations, the committees and how they worked. The Coordinating Committee was consulted and discussed on 23 November the results of its 10th coordination, 25 November, presentation of the updated draft of a fair development transition, then the Ministerial Council. Aren't you a Permanent Committee on the Production and Trade of the House, where it was presented? I'm on it. On 9 December, the consultation with local authorities, representatives of scientific and academic bodies and research centres, chambers, workshops and associations. It started for the territorial and concepts of the equitable development transition programme. 8-221 discussion of coordinating territorial drafts for western Macedonia and Megalopolis. 13-3-2021 launch of institutional consultation of preliminary draft ESDP projects by 19 March, based on a structured agenda. 15 February training of the NIMEXE countries and working parties and 6 April to 26 April open institutional consultation of the conceptual memorandum. But we don't just stop there. Because I am asking you questions too to tell us what you were negotiating in Europe because we have not heard it. We continued in the debate and in the negotiation with the European Commission, which continued on 8-6-21 following a Coordinating Consultation Decision until 25 June of the established texts of territorial, western Macedonia, Megalopolis, the islands of North-South Aegean and Crete, as well as the first project. 16 June online seminar involving all the institutions of the partnership. It's too much, I won't have time, unless you have something to add to us, too. So we're going on. So, with the decision of the Prime Minister's historic decision, Greece was exactly at the right time to claim most resources. Because at the time of the decision, all negotiations with all the Structural Funds had begun. If we had been late - I'm not telling you a year or a half - and we were here now, and this decision was taken now - which you should have taken, Mr Famele, since 2016, this decision and what we are discussing today in Parliament you should have brought it in six years ago, but we are bringing it after two years of work and we have to present you with the work we have done. You testify to us in your own business.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u45	That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u46	Words? Talking no, I think it's you. Because I'm talking to you with deeds, and I'm giving you information. If we had been late, then, we would have lost billions. So what happened? There was also a transitional programme, a special transitional programme for 2021-2023, which raised resources from the NSRP 2014-2020 - Mr Velopoulos also left to hear them - of the NSRP and the Green Fund, a total of EUR 368 million, which is running. And many of the projects that are currently running, district heating, gas, worker support, innovation area measures, new development, digital and green actions are from this action of the transitional programme 2021-2023. Immediately, then, we're on our way. They're running right now. That's what we're doing now, we're running, we're planning, we're running and we're moving on the next day. So it is very important to see all the programmes, because they amount to EUR 368 million, and so we are given the opportunity to plan the next day. I submitted the EUR 7 billion to the committee yesterday. You want me to talk to you again? I'll talk to you again. Fair growth programme, public funds of EUR 1 billion. Recovery Fund programme. Incidentally, with the discussion of the EUR 300 million Recovery Fund. Pillars 2 and 3 of the 1.9m-euro fair transition mechanism. Of these, and through the leverage of private capital of EUR 900 million. Write them down. New Western Macedonian RDP 394 million. New ESDP programmes EUR 350 million. Recovery Fund for Green Digital Transition Projects in Western Macedonia EUR 250 million. Green Fund 150m euros. All right, the Green Fund is this ministerial decision that you made before you left the government. A ministerial decision, that one, nothing else. DISCF investment EUR 147 million and PPC EUR 2 billion. Why will PPC pay the EUR 2 billion that it will throw into the area without giving up jobs? So what do we do? We're creating the mechanism. This is how work begins, with the mechanism, the official public mechanism and the company that is created, which takes the land, is a public company. I told you and the committees that these lands will be leased. For the costs, then, there will be an accurate assessment study. That's what's happening right now. There is an appreciation study, which will illustrate the very truth. And I told you the polluter pays. EUR 1 will take the public all these territories. It's public property. These territories are not given. They will be exploited, restored and given a long-term lease to create jobs. This will all be judged, as the existing legislation on long-term rental provides. But we don't stop there. We are listening to the comments on the participation of society. We've got a lot of points. It is not only the coordinating committee of Mr Mousouroulis, but we also have and are providing through the programmes for the assignment to local RDPs of traders, as well as for the participation in the RDP management authority of a person who will deal only with AMMs. These are things we've already anticipated. We also anticipate in the monitoring subcommittees the participation of local players. We also add working groups to the special service from the regions. ADAM project evaluation committees shall also participate in one of the regions' representatives. You see we're coming and listening and filling out. You, at least, could find the bill, read it, and say "add that, add that, add that, too", go on the next day. We come here and complement things that we hear through the parliamentary procedure. So that's the meaning of the House. Well, representatives of territorial regions are also involved in the Special Advisory Committees. The transition shall conclude programme contracts with local bodies and chambers to act as hostiles. In the transition the setting up of the Advisory Committees will be with the participation of representatives from the territorial areas. Independent Observatory Department: Slit by address, becomes independent and recommended annexes of the Observatory in territorial areas. The transition also establishes annexes to IPM regions, so that society can be better represented. Thirteen shares counted you in local society everywhere, in all areas, in all directions, in all parts of the units we establish. However, by reading - and that is why I invited you - I would like you to see through provisions that are relevant to the aid of investments there. We are speeding up the licensing procedures for some actions. But how else would it happen? Do not speed up, in other words, in an area that we need to run quickly? You said that, ten months and twelve months before the committees set up. So what do we do? We bring provisions and speed up all procedures so that PPC can run its works. Also, a very important one that all municipalities want is that we are creating for the implementation of the district heating system. Why don't you vote for it? We're on. For the separating industry - they have the bill in it - the lands are public. Because I heard you talk about the land being public. But the land comes from a company of PPC, where it also has private participation. The soils are coming to the public. That's what the bill says in it. Ladies and gentlemen, we support this process even the part of the OTA sub-delegation, because that is where we will have staff who will support the processes so that all projects can be accelerated. This is what we have in the organisation and functioning of these bodies, which can support all services so that there is no delay. I can't believe you didn't find anything to vote in. Because I showed you these pictures. They'll haunt you for a long time! We keep going and say we didn't just stop there. And in the bill on strategic investment, which has become state law, we have included special provisions for western Macedonia and Megalopolis in order to facilitate business. And in the new law that we bring next week, the new development law, we have special provisions for western Macedonia and Megalopolis. We are giving a chance, at the top of the incentives in these regions. And now that I've thrown the glove at you, I'm asking you to tell me: When in the history of four and a half years have you brought such provisions to Parliament to support the areas, so that these people can leave the monoculture of electricity and go to a new era, giving new jobs to young people and young people and a new perspective to the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u49	What do you want, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u50	As a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, I would like my second speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u51	How? Deuteronomy without prior protology?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u52	I would like to make an intervention from the third point of view, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u53	Don't start a process. There is the list that you all know, twenty-five entries. Well, they're waiting for colleagues to start talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u54	I won't break it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u55	The parliamentary representatives will of course follow them in the intervening period. You'll all have the chance. That's what I'm proposing. If you insist, I cannot deprive you of your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u57	If you want to be good now to intervene, very strict for two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u58	Okay, thank you. Mr President, as you can see, after this very intense speech by the Deputy Minister, we have to say a few words. The fact is that we understand the anxiety, anxiety and impasse that the Deputy Minister has, since the government is particularly exposed to an area where all the actors, from what we have seen at the hearing, are opposed and all the opposition parties are also opposed to a project, which unfortunately does not exist. So let us let him know about some practical issues the House knows, but the Minister doesn't know about them. The bill that you have been consulted for a long time was posted at OpenGov.gr, if I'm not mistaken, for only seven days.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u59	Six.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u60	Secondly, the bill that you have been consulted for a long time stayed in Parliament's committees only three days, without any gaps in preparation. In fact, half an hour has elapsed between the meeting of the articles and the hearing of the bodies. That, to understand how much...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u61	A quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u62	A quarter. Good. To understand, too, who read it, Mr. Deputy. The interventions you will likely be making - because you have not tabled - we and the institutions have asked for them, because your own Members have not spoken about the articles and we have not heard any Member put, you and the Minister, on the articles of the bill. Here, therefore, our rapporteur has asked for them today. I did not hear from the majority rapporteur today, but from our rapporteur...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u63	You weren't here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u64	I heard him at the meeting of the committees. I tell you today in plenary. So we're telling you this so we don't forget. First of all, if you want to be excellent and efficient, bring the legislators in. You have not brought them and said that you are amending them. Secondly, if you wanted the bodies involved, you should have thought about it and not everybody pushing you to come at the last minute, as you do with the amendments. This is proof that you're defeated, that you're dragged into putting local actors, not that you're excellent. Let's go a little bit to that. New Democracy asks us to apologize, why did SYRIZA, after the wrong Mitsotakis decision, not do anything to prevent it when it was in government? Are you all right? We were the ones who passed through Parliament the decision of the Paris climate summit. We have passed the climate adaptation law, which you are now stalling to implement. We have compiled the first National Plan on Energy and Climate, together with competitive procedures by law on RES, together with energy communities with law on RES, together with the first Fair Transition Fund in Europe, which was made by the SYRIZA Government and was the first and we left money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And a ministerial decision of mine and Mr. Stathakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u65	Come on, Mr. Felmele...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u66	...who even had the categories of investments ready for you. And what did you do? Two and a half years you haven't done anything, and you have now, a week before Mr. Mitsotakis goes up, an admission notice. However, the region already counts unemployed and all the unemployment cards in the region are signed: Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Because, as he said in 'BILD', German companies will have opportunities, but residents do not have opportunities with the choice of Mr Mitsotakis. That's what you've done. So, should we be a little serious and talk in particular?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u67	Finish it, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u68	You come two years and three months after the Prime Minister's announcement to propose - why you said so - that you create a mechanism. In other words, it took you two years and three months to create the mechanism, but the unemployed are multiplying, the units are closed. Greece has made a record of accuracy in energy, because you have neither energy planning nor development planning. Not to say what we heard - you were in front of - by your MP a week ago here, that it is Soviet to have a design for Greece. You were here. You've heard them from Members of the Couple.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Femmelle, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u70	To avoid mocking, I put down two documents: first, Hatzidakis: Twelve direct implementation measures in western Macedonia, 8-2-2020. Direct measures. Count how many months have passed. Direct measures: not one has been implemented. And secondly, in order not to think that we do not know how to read: the bill of impoverishment passed by the Ministerial Council, Hatzidakis, 7 December 2020. So, Mr President, they come a year later. You guys are so good and you think we can't read? Will you come work for the area, help the place, or will you just do the deals with the German companies? Because you are a government of deals, but not the residents. That's the problem. That's why we fight and you see us that way. And there's no need for tension on your part against SYRIZA. Your results are seen in all regions. For you are the black flags. You're on your way to MATs. They're not going for SYRIZA. Can you sit down and work? That is the big question and the anxiety we have. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u71	We shall now give the floor to the first speaker on the list, Mr Pericles Manda, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u72	Mr. President, can I not speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u73	What do you want, Mr. Buquoir? Excuse me. The Minister should answer if he wants. Excuse me. Are you asking why? Mr Famellos addressed the Minister and the arguments he had previously put forward in his speech. If I give the floor to each parliamentary representative to intervene on any matter relating to the bill, the list goes for a walk and we will be here this afternoon. I said: I invite Mr. Manda to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u74	But it's not like that, and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u75	Leave that, Mr. Buquoir. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a major reform, a radical breakthrough for the whole of our country that changes its energy profile and makes us truly pioneers throughout Europe. We are talking about defoliation, we are talking about transition to the post-linguistic age, about environmental protection, about reducing pollutants, about changing and modernising energy production in our country, but we are also talking about progress and about prosperity, about the next day of areas that have learned to live in absolute dependence on lignite and its polluting effects. So today we are setting the foundations and we are setting out the new framework so that these regions can change their course, have new prospects, development and dynamic directions and they can build a new, modern, healthy and above all clean future. Is this an energy transition necessary? Of course it is, because it is not just the environment that is being put and suffering. There is also a series of economic and geostrategic reasons that absolutely necessitate this gradual change. The greater our country is dependent on fossil fuels, oil and natural gas, which are mainly imported and which can become levers of pressure for the service of geostrategic interests, the more vulnerable we become to international turbulence and external pressures, and the more we undermine our self-sufficiency and our national self-determination. Is this energy transition violent and hasty, as it claims to be part of the counterpopulation? Of course, it is not, because for years now the reduction of lignite's share of energy production has begun through the withdrawal of PPC's old units, through the increase in the price of pollutants, through the gradual expansion of renewable energy sources, which enjoy minimal operating costs, but increasingly lower installation costs. Of course, one thing is certain throughout this whole story, that despite the country's gradual and systematic progress towards a future without lignite, today's Opposition that cries today, when it was in things, did absolutely nothing to prepare the country for the next day. Despite the steady reduction in the use of lignite, despite the increase in the RES and the fines of the pollutants, it was the SYRIZA government that has for years been inactive and prevented from ever having to make the difficult and complex decisions that are needed. Those who are supposedly cut off for the environment, those who are supposed to have their DNA ecology, those who put the movements and the ecology in their title, these themselves today are trying to oppose the Green Agreement and the fair development transition that puts the polluter lignite into the margin. Of course, I understand that. We all understand you, gentlemen of counterpopulation. You weren't expecting that. SYRIZA didn't expect it from a liberal government of Mr. Mitsotakis to get her out environmentally. We understand your anxiety and how you understand the situation, however, is the reality. Unfortunately this false record of environmental sensitivity has been destroyed, which you have served all these years to the Greek people only so that you can pet some of our fellow citizens' ears. So, finally, this government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy had to come to plan and implement a brave and complete plan, an integrated eco-plan with two main axes, on the one hand, the country committed itself to no longer using lignite by 2028, thereby rendering defoliation throughout the territory and on the other hand the state to take care of the transition to the new era, especially for western Macedonia and Megalopolis, that is to say, the areas where work and the economy are particularly based on lignite. With the bill we are debating today, we are doing this very planning. We are creating the institutional framework necessary to have a smooth, integrated, fair transition to the new era without lignite, especially for the affected regions, and we are doing this with flexibility, with realism, with care and above all with the real economy, namely the workers and businesses themselves. Here I would like to thank the entire group personally, Mr Musuroulis, and in particular the Minister who has listened to our views, and the municipality of Echalias, a small municipality of Messinia, a poor municipality, with no revenue, but it has been borne maximum by the operation of the lignite plant in Megalopolis, since it is a municipality that is bordering there. Many people from the Municipality of Ekalia work in factories, and eventually the Municipality of Ekalia will also be fruited, but also the area will be, important interventions from the project, which will support the real economy, the inhabitants, the young people of the region. Ladies and gentlemen, what does our country achieve from this government policy? Be the first country in Europe to submit a comprehensive fair transition plan, to be the first country in Europe with the highest proportionate funding, to give increased incentives, but also looser criteria for investment in vulnerable regions, to support investment interest, so that it is already at high levels both from strategic bodies such as PPC, as well as from simple entrepreneurs and investors who see opening up opportunities windows for them, to commit to significant national and European resources amounting to billions of euros, in order to support local societies, giving features of national effort in the whole project and finally, by moving the plan of district heating to the municipalities of western Macedonia, as well as the connection to gas for the areas of Florin and Megalopolis. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, defoliation is a flagrant reform, it is a national effort in which there are no micro-party conflicts, and it is really regrettable that there are Members and Parliament's wings who are today voting against the country's attempt to finally turn a page, become greener, more greener, more ecological, because in my eyes it is another thing to disagree on points, to have comments and to enrich government planning, and it is another thing to fight against globally, to defend lignite, to stick to yesterday and finally to vote against. Greece must take this step, prepare, attract, facilitate investment in vulnerable areas, change its productive model, strengthen its energy autonomy, make the European 'green' agreement a green agreement. Our country now has the will and the plan to make all this a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Mada. The next speaker is Evangelos Apostolos, Mr Boubas will follow and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I did not ask for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u79	What did you ask for?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u80	I wanted to speak beforehand. You had given the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman without planning and asked for...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Buquoir, I'm sorry. You made sense to me. Listen. Immediately protest. We can solve the misunderstanding possibly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u82	You told me to talk after Mr. Manda, and now you're telling me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u83	First of all, your objections are not recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u84	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u85	I'm telling you again. You make sense to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u86	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u87	Now you want to hear? If you don't want to hear, don't save and listen. Please. You're coming over here to do what? What do you want to do? You make sense to me, and here I am, and the Agency understands that you want to take the floor as you are entitled to. I have already told you that you will speak after two speakers. Now you guys want to talk for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u88	And I can explain it to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u89	But now, if you'll excuse me. Good. Do you want me to give you the two minutes you requested now - Mr. Apostle will wait - yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u90	If you're gonna do me a favor, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u91	Uh, now, can we not agree on the elementary ones? Immediately you come here and start with the Bureau. Please. Please. That's not behaviour! Can't we just agree on things? Oh, my God! Please, Mr. Apostleu, wait a moment. Mr. Bukkoro, for two minutes you have the floor to place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I had no intention and no benefit to create tension. As you have admitted, this unnecessarily disapprove dialogue has been a misunderstanding. It makes sense, however, that, given that the Honourable Parliamentary spokesman of the SYRIZA has been given an answer on the part of the government, too, as soon as possible. So I asked for the floor. I am telling you that we had the opportunity to see that all SYRIZA's reaction is based on a constructed and false theorem, which, according to SYRIZA, says the government and the Prime Minister has been raped to open up the issue of liberation. That's why we disagree. For these reasons, we had deadlines and had not planned the transition, we had not taken steps. For these reasons the government is unprepared. Indeed, there is the subject of discussion when we want to propose more measures for the transition and for the deprivation of the region and the measures are not self-evident. Included in other bills. Subsequent measures will be included in subsequent bills. This bill sets a framework for the transition, for defoliation, and it is regrettable that the Civic Opposition, which has ruled the country for four and a half years and says: 'But why did you open it? We have had 15 years' time.' That's what we hear from SYRIZA's side. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, the common policy, in turn, awaits deadlines, exhaustes them and calls for extensions. The real leader cuts things apart, takes initiatives, draws up plans and awaits results. And if the results are positive, it is justified in electoral, political, economic and historical terms. If it's not positive, the opposite happens. But to say that it is a policy of such a great and modern subject to awaiting the exhaustion of deadlines, that does not mean anything at all. We don't follow things, ladies and gentlemen. Kyriakos Mitsotakis does not follow things, at the time of things. It's shaping the developments! And that is what it does - and I conclude, Mr President - and the issue of liberation. We see that the time of things with climate change goes there. We may disagree about whether the price of pollutants is today so tomorrow will be different. We may also disagree on the reasons for the energy price crisis. However, we cannot disagree that measures are essential to tackle climate change. That's what we all agree on. In the tools that we totally disagree no one can understand. So, do we cut things apart, make decisions, go forth, have a say at European and global level, say that we did what we are told, are the biggest doing? In order to be able to claim more and above all so that we can claim a better environmental and more sustainable economic environment for our children in western Macedonia and throughout Greece. As for what has been heard about unemployment, poverty and poverty, the answer is one: unemployment is deviating at a rapid pace - less than 13% - and the growth rates of the third quarter were multiples of the European average, with 13.4%. This is the general picture for both western Macedonia and the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u93	We will now ask for Mr Apostle's patience once again because Mr Papathanases has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u94	Everyone's gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u95	I will be very brief, Mr Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u96	But now you see? We cannot reach agreement on who will take the floor to answer two things. If we don't waste time, Minister, as you have said, for one minute you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u97	As far as I understand it, Mr Famelos did not listen carefully to my speech. Because if he had heard it, he would have recorded all the actions that started immediately after the Prime Minister's decision on liberation. We have not arrived here without a programme for a fair development transition, a territorial programme for a fair development transition, negotiations, the interim transitional programme for the regions. You have forgotten, obviously, what you have said that we are coming two years later, that the committee was set up at the first time, that we have all been negotiating, that we have a programme, that we are running programmes at the moment, which you certainly have nothing to say about, for the time yours. Thank you. I'm sorry, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u98	Come on, Mr. Apostleu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, what is seen in this Chamber is that, while we are approaching the completion of the voting procedures for this project, you still have no idea that there is a huge problem in the region. All residents see that tomorrow they will not be able to stay in their homes, in their villages. Unfortunately, this situation has been shaped, at least in terms of perception. Why? Because they see that you have not made concrete proposals from you in tabling specific management plans. At last, it must be. And I'm telling you, especially as in an area like Northern Evia we experience exactly the same. What the tragedy brought to northern Evia seems to be coming in the region of Western Macedonia. Finally! Ladies and gentlemen, the transition to liberation would be fair if, in addition to the fact that it has been thoroughly discussed in the debates, it also concerned other areas, such as the Liberian, Evia, which not only experienced defoliation earlier, but also served, since it has already covered its contribution to the national objective of ligniteification with the excessive installation of wind parks in its area. As rehab attempts, it is now obvious that the areas operating in the lignite centres of PPC are being destroyed, as an important economic activity will cease to exist, with what this implies for the local society and the economy - we have said before - the workers and the indirect employees. Of course, the question today about western Macedonia is whether it is ready and itself to accept these investments which will serve to degrease and also the employment of all the people who have connected their living in the region with lignite. Unfortunately, you're not ready. Unfortunately, what comes to the investments is only the installation of renewable energy units, as already a large amount of the Recovery Fund is intended for these investments, of course, which do not respond to the concern of the workers for the next day. Nor, of course, is the establishment of "MATTER S.A.", a person of private law, responds to it and what it entails in its operation. It is good, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about productive reconstruction with a tool for rural space, but not in general and vaguely. Everyone, even today, is talking about a transitional period in which plans for the reconstruction of the regions must be drawn up on the basis of the primary sector and, as a result, processing. Listen, Minister, why did you ask what we did? As a government of SYRIZA, on the basis of our country's given obligation to take measures to serve the transition to the post-liberal period, we have indicated, Minister, and those interventions that would make a significant contribution. The Regional Unit of Kozani has many rural areas, it has many areas at the same time that they have already carried out their mission in the lignite field and at this time, a small part of the land is restored and the others are supposed to be the restoration. But at the same time, there are young people who are interested in entering the rural economy. Unfortunately, there is not even a single reference to the agricultural area in the bill that is being discussed. On the contrary, what seems to be coming is the vast photovoltaic fields. But - and this is our proposal - the wider region of Kozani has a tradition and know-how in an innovative cultivation, in aromatic and pharmaceutical plants that, in the context of the productive reconstruction of the regions, as a key development initiative of the SYRIZA Government, announced by Alexis Tsipras as Prime Minister at the 1st Regional Conference of Western Macedonia in July 2017, the question of the development of the rehabilitated areas of lignite and their performance for systematic use by local society is urgently raised. Our first aim was to cultivate aromatic and pharmaceutical plants of about five thousand acres within three years. The first recovery concerned a thousand five hundred acres in a granted and restored area of PPC located in a single area of the geographical unit of Jordan and the rest, the next period in the geographical unit of Kozani, as soon as they are definitively restored. These acres would add them to the already cultivated herbs in the region, creating a critical mass of production and, at the same time, the largest single area of rural development in the category of aromatic and pharmaceutical plants. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] A little tolerance, Mr President, after all we have heard a lot. Let me take this opportunity. Unfortunately, this attempt never walked, because PPC already had a law of 2001, okay in its possession and asked for a rent - which, as you can see, acted as an incentive to young farmers who were already preparing to enter the relevant procedure. Of course, at the time, the pressure of lipotization that exists today did not exist - you have shaped these conditions. Today, however, this activity is the best solution, especially when right now in the drawers of the Ministry of Rural Development there is a ready strategic plan for aromatic medicinal plants, which is a model for investment in thousands of acres throughout the country. But what problem do you have to deal with, Minister? The restoration of the territories that have completed their offer. When PPC was awarded these lands were agricultural, in fact, in areas that had all the conditions to support rural activity. Today, it is incomprehensible that these lands will be changed to landfills. They must be restored and attributed back to the rural area. Unfortunately, what comes with the photovoltaics in the restored and the balls in the restored - because that's what it comes - you all understand what it means to the area. I close - and thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance - with the question, ladies and gentlemen, of all the inhabitants of western Macedonia. You are telling them, Minister, that you will change the productive model of their region, when, as I have said before, it will dominate the absorption of available resources, particularly renewable energy sources, especially the 10 GW photovoltaics. So you may say that you are serving the needs of violent liberation, but you do not serve with any need for a righteous transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. We will now give the floor to Mr. Bubas Konstantinos from the Greek Solution. Mr. Maravegias, Mr. Stamenitis and Mrs. Skondra will be followed. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a saying, because what is happening today is trivialising the evil - and we will explain it later on in the Greek Solution - the Greek people must know about it, see it in the face and think about it: 'They will weep manus', to say so. "They will close houses", people in Kozani, Ptolemaida, Amytino, Kastoria, and of course in Megalopolis are waiting for difficult days. And we say this because local government will also lose, and studies say that, three times more crocodile production in Kozani, unemployment will be high again. We are talking about four thousand workers in the public electricity company - well, they will be covered - and twenty thousand for seasonal workers, for machine drivers. What about them? Are we magically going through this transition to the area of Kosani? What will these people eat? How will they survive? Does anyone ask them? Lucetta enter Kozani, Kastoria, Florina, Amytino, Ptolemaida. In fact, for a coal, such as lignite, whose, as the President, Mr Velopoulos, said, there are stocks for the next forty-five years. And because, Mr Ciridis, we are from the same region, it is the deposits of Drama, of course, the peat, which is equivalent to a hundred and twenty-five million tonnes of oil. PPC - I've told you in other talks and we'll tell you as Greek Solution - was founded in 1950 and bought four hundred private companies. Why did PPC do this? Because the world in Greece paid four times more expensive electricity than the rest of the Old Continent. In fact, the last private hydroelectric power plant was in Patras and PPC bought it in the late 1980s to retain prices. Where will the social invoice be? Will there be a social tariff for vulnerable and vulnerable groups in terms of private providers today? If anyone needs haemodialysis and has to do dialysis in the kidneys? Or if someone needs oxygen, will Mr Georgiadis take Mr Georgiadis' receipt - which, once with Mr Ploris as MPs of LAOS, was against the collectors and now, he says, will he house the state with the collectors - and for 50 euros he will cut the power on the elderly? That's what's gonna happen. Because, as Kyriakos Velopoulos said, the world will not eat a share. Cheap electricity as a public national good awaits, gentlemen. That's why PPC took place in 1950. And if we go to the history of lignite, there is another company, "LIPTOL", which was purchased in 1975 by PPC, because lignite mining has a long history since 1973 in Aliveri, at a fixed price lignite or coal. Because we are talking about mineral wealth and there are these revelations - which the President of the Greek Solution had spoken about gas and hydrocarbons - if you go to history, the National Warlord - according to New Democracy - put us into the European Union for the sake of Babura. Ask yourself who Baburas is, who is ten miles south of Thassos on the coast of Saint John and who had given it to the Institute of France...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u102	It's east.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u103	It's east? All right, east right, east and thank you for the correction. ...where mining costs $4.8 a barrel when in Saudi Arabia it's $5.2. Thanks to this, we have entered the European Union, from the information obtained by the French National Oil Institute. For thirty years, however, it was agreed in Davos that we should not extend our territorial waters. It was the famous "mea cuulpa" that was also heard by Andreas Papandreou and Ozal before, it was the agreement in Bulgaria and Istanbul. On Constantine Mitsotakis 1992, too, he was pressed to avoid investigations. "GENERGIAKI AEGAIOU", however, in 2013 it provided research for Babura, although "ELLENIKA PETRELAYA" prohibited "ENERGYIAKI AEGAIOU" to do the research. ‘ENERGYIAKI AEGEAN’ gave the findings in 2015 to the government. Where's the finding? Why not extend the territorial waters from six to twelve? It was a deal, gentlemen, not to enter Bamboura with 3,2 billion barrels. I'm saying it to see how important mineral wealth is. Let's go now, because the Minister challenged me, Mr. Papathanassis, and you showed some pictures of the lignite area. He's trivialized the evil. We here in the Greek Solution revealed to you what is behind "ELDORADO", that it is the "ALAMOS GOLD" in the Municipality of Tsanakale and the same company has smashed Baia Mare in Romania, in the forests and did the GABRIEL GOLD. What is the result, you who are cut for the environment? I will present them, a male forty-nine thousand times above the limit in Kalyvi Barbara, north-east of Halkidiki, pollution and environmental protection in Halkidiki from the mine - Olympiada mine, parliamentary question - I will testify to it - the Municipality of Aristotle, condemnation of the officials of Halkidiki Chrysos for arsenic pollution in Kakouridio in Thessaloniki. I'll testify to that, too. Lead 985% above the Olympiad's river limit from the waste of the "ELLENIC CRYSOS". Here's a nice picture, Minister! And we go now a few hours ago, Mr. Steinmitz was arrested. Who's that? This is from "BHMA" his arrest. There is a red arrest warrant pending by the Romanian authorities for property trespassing in Romania, but suddenly we left him free, we gave him refuge in Greece with the sole obligation not to leave for abroad. Why did he meet with Mr. Daskalakis and Mr. Emir in Skopje, the billionaire? Free the Israeli billionaire arrested a few hours ago in "Eleftherios Venizelos". Why? The FENI company in Kavardashi, Skopje, don't you know it? The possible suitors for "LARCO" from Skopje will go to Skopje "Larko" triumph evil. We sell LARCO, the mines of Kastoria and Kozani in the city of Kavardashi, Skopje, forty kilometers from the border, to Mr.FENI's company Steinmetge, who is wanted by an Interpol warrant and is here in Greece, we host him from the day before yesterday. He met with Mr. Daskalakis, who was an advisor to "LARCO" Mr. Daskalakis and received a transfer to the Scottish company - on government Antonis Samaras - and met with Mr. Emir, for it was planned to sell the cobalt and LARCO to the Skopje. As far as ELDORADO is concerned, "CHRYSOS", we go to instant melt with the command "profile", the male thousands above, contamination in Halkidiki. Let's go to Larco, sell it to Skopje, let's go to the lignite we're selling him where? The private corporations. Is this the land we're going to deliver to the next generations? To testify to the Minutes, because, as the saying says, this earth did not inherit it from our ancestors, we borrowed it from our children. And I want you to see the WWF report, which accuses you that landing will be an abnormal age in the desertification of the area, apart from the fact that the transfer fund is being cut, it will take EUR 7.5 billion, which expected from the budget plus EUR 30 billion. We will have a reduction of at least EUR 10 billion, we will take less than what the Prime Minister and the government expect. There's cutbacks. See what the German press writes about lignites in Greece, minus 50%, we will get billions less, at least EUR 2 billion less than the fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Booba, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u105	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Greek people must know. We in the Greek Solution will see you, draw his conclusions for what days they come for this place we have to deliver. But, above all, the greatest national problem is the survival of the Greek. That's what you need to see, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u106	Good. Before we move on to the next speaker, we will give the floor to Mr Screka to the amendment under number 1166. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three, four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u107	I will be brief, Mr President. I would like to table the amendment with a general number of 1166 and a special 100, it contains five articles. In particular, the first article has to do with the management of the international energy crisis, which is currently, unfortunately, very brutally affecting Greek consumers, households and professionals. We have moved from the first moment, since September, to subsidising domestic consumers' electricity accounts by setting up the Energy Transfer Fund, where we have made money available there from carbon dioxide emissions auctions, and also from the excesses of the ELAP special account, which supports renewable energy sources. Given that renewable energy sources are now producing electricity at a much lower cost than that on the stock market, surpluses are generated there. So this is what we, the leftovers, the surpluses and the electricity bills of the Greek consumers are going to do, so that by 301 KW, which consumes an average household, it will not be charged too badly and too high a cost increase. For professionals, however, also for professional invoices, as you can see, the ability of the State to intervene and support is limited, because there is competition law and European law on State aid. Any such direct subsidy would render unlawful State aid to these undertakings. But what can we do as a state? What we can do is see those regulated charges which are also burdening professionals' accounts, see how we can transfer them for the future, when in the end electricity prices are back to normal levels and then they can be paid back. So what do we do? We transfer charges relating to services of general interest to professional consumers, to professional consumers of electricity connected with the average voltage, to 'industrial use, other uses, agricultural use' and to those professionals who are connected with the low voltage and who have a 'industrial use' right there, so we transfer the charges of services of general interest to them, and if this special account of the YOIs needs - if necessary - then they will be charged, these charges will be imposed. If it is not necessary, of course, we will see how we can offset this debt with the future reductions in these arrangements. Let us say that about EUR 50 million is the short-term benefit that will first arise for professional consumers and, of course, we will finally see how much of this will be necessary. Article 2 has to do with the payment of charges for the use of the gas distribution network to domestic consumers. Here we need to know that household consumers who are interconnected in the natural gas network, in addition to the energy costs of the gas they pay, also pay the cost of using the network, which for a thermal megawatt in northern Greece is around EUR 13, in southern Greece is EUR 17 and in the rest of Greece is around EUR 22. Since the price of natural gas on the international markets has almost tripled, not to say quadruple, since the beginning of the year - it has been 20 euros, and since the beginning of the year it has reached 90 and 100 euros - we are therefore coming beyond a 15% discount on all consumers, which we have already announced and which will take place through the possibility of 'TRADE' to give the suppliers better gas prices, and they are going through this best price, this discount to households, and we are also suspending for the months of November and December, in addition to this reduction in network charges that, I repeat, may be up to 20% of the cost of energy they consume. This will, of course, be shared among consumers over the next few periods, when gas prices will eventually return to normal levels. Article 3 concerns the installation of PV plant in woodland, which had been evacuated for agricultural use in the past. Here's what the paradox is. The installation of photovoltaics is currently permitted in woodland. The installation of photovoltaics is also permitted on agricultural land. The installation of PVCs shall not be permitted from an empty law on forest land that has been evacuated for the purpose of agricultural use. So we come and effectively solve this problem and this unforeseen law. Article 4 has to do with the regulation of guarantee letters for the restoration of lignite mines. This regulation deals with the question of the amount of the guarantee letters for the restoration of the environment resulting from the early closure of lignite mines, as the National Energy and Climate Plan dictates and provides that lignite will be fully withdrawn from power generation in 2028. In particular, it concerns the lignite mines of PPC which are forced to discontinue operations earlier than was provided for in the decision approving environmental conditions which it had through the strategy of the state to carbonise the Greek economy and to protect the environment, but also through the reality that it ultimately imposes the withdrawal of lignite plants, since today producing electricity from lignite is much more expensive than producing the wind itself. Article 5 relates to the process of simultaneous approval of a Special Urban Plan and the Roadmap for Implementation. It refers to a regulation which, above all, helps to restore the area destroyed by the fires in the Eye of Attica. The proposed arrangement regulates the issues of the process of simultaneous approval of a Special Urban Plan and Root Plan, when the implementing entity is the sole owner and the manager of the whole area to be built up. This speeds up the process of the Special Urban Plan. Article 6 - the amendment has six articles - concerning the participation of local government, the Gas Distribution Company, and the abolition of the provision of Article 5 of Law 2364/1995. This article provided that when a municipality expanded the natural gas network, it was obliged that the natural gas network operator pays 10% of the dividends on the profits in the municipality concerned. This started in 1995, more than twenty years ago, when there was the difficulty of what is going to happen, what impact the gas network must have on local selfgovernment. Today, as you know, everyone wants to reach the natural gas in the homes. All mayors, as well as all the rulers of local government, but also all customers, all consumers of Greek citizens want gas to end up in their homes. So we cannot, on the one hand, - in quotes - 'we are all asking' to extend natural gas and, on the other, to have such a condition that 10% of profits are attributed to the municipalities, which has not been attributed to the last two, three years. On the substance, the municipalities had not requested it. We are coming and we are going to pay off what the gas network managers owe for the last two, three years, and from now on we are also setting a transitional period so that these municipalities that were beneficiaries of this amount have a support for compensatory projects from the Green Fund. From there on, after the end of the translation period, this prediction is stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u108	The floor has been requested by Mr. Famelos and Mr. Hetas. Mr Heta, I imagine that you want to ask the Minister a question on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u109	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u110	I see that there is no other colleague who wants to ask about this. So we're starting with Mr. Famell. Mr. Famelle, you have the floor, but please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u111	Yes, Mr. President. I shall ask the question about the content of the amendment and the draft law. I don't want to ask you anything else. Minister, I must first say that we would like to say a few words about the fact that this bill amends the competences of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. That is something we have mentioned in committees many times. I do not know if the Ministers of the Ministry of Development have informed you, but a great question that has arisen is why the responsibilities for degreasing from the Ministry of the Environment and going to the Ministry of Development and the management of the tool you present today are leaving. Inside the bill also includes arrangements for Special Urban Plans, for which we would like you to tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, is this a question now on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Famele, this is now a more general placement, a more general question, if you would like.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u114	I'm closing it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u115	Let us remain in the narrowest terms of the amendment. Do you have anything to say about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, we are particularly impressed by the fact that the Ministry of the Environment leaves many responsibilities. The Minister comes here to even present the amendment, and we have to ask him, because we have tabled a different opinion. Let us now ask ourselves about the arrangements for the amendments. The first amendments concern, at least, the first, first, energy costs. The question is why nothing is included in the first article of the amendment and how the Ministry is dealing with the issue, for example, of farmers. We have cases with an increase in costs of EUR 2 000 per month. I'll testify then, so I don't trouble you. Secondly, it does not include anything on the issue of JHAs, where the JHA union has also submitted a strong stress to increase the cost of 40% for households, because together with 39 euros if one takes into account and 42% of PPC's discount, the extreme scenarios, again the extra cost per month varies for households up to 500 KWh - we do not mention over-consumption - at around 60 euros a month. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, for this measure of the first - and I will table the accounts, Minister, so that there is no concern on your part, with accounts, you will speak - you have a suspension of the obligation. Therefore, these undertakings are not exempted. So, Mr President, I will testify for the Minister to have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Famelle, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u118	...and to be more specifically Mr. Cologne's document, which talks about 150 million euros a month, an increase in medium-voltage operations. You told us about a suspension measure of between 50 and 60 million. You understand that it cannot cover at least these costs. What we are asking, then, is whether the reports on the deficit increase are true to the special account of the OHIM, and so if you are undoing your original intention to alleviate business and only speak of a suspension. As far as the second article is concerned, you are again talking about a suspension of network charges, as far as gas is concerned. So that means that consumers will not be relieved and will be invited to pay at a later time. So the cost of burdening the economy and consumers and gas remains. On the issue of concessions - because it gave us a special impression - you told us that there is a law gap. I am referring to the areas allocated for agricultural use. However, as far as I remember, the concessions had an express commitment to the citizens to whom they are granted to be for agricultural use. So there was no law gap. So do you now come and change the condition by which the public has granted the land to import other uses, such as PV? Because there was no law void. There was a concession term. So you're amending the concession term. Therefore, this is your choice and not empty law. And I come to a last thing about self-government. We understand that with this you are preventing any self-government in Greece from participating in the management and the natural gas networks, while at the same time you are assigned to a company, which is now a monopoly throughout Greece and in which the Italian State, the network management. So neither the municipalities nor the Greek State will participate. As you can see, this is at the expense of the interests and self-government and the Greek public. Is that exactly what you're doing with the last amendment? Is this a requirement for the new monopoly owner of the whole natural gas network? So did DALKAS and you serve the interests of the Italian State rather than the Greeks? This is also a question that needs to be clarified. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Skreka, besides being the face of the days due to the conditions experienced by Greek women and Greeks, you must be relieved that you are not today the Ministry that submits this bill. We would expect you to come here today with solutions, even with the amendment, for the great disease that we are facing. You, not only, have not come with solutions, with drugs, to relieve the pain of these people, but you have not even brought painkillers. With a compulsion, you're here to look for their people's pain. You give them doses. People don't want doses. He wants a discharge. I'm not even going into the conversation that we're talking about a little bit of money for public utility, etc. It's very little money. In addition to that, I would like you to tell us: do you know that the electricity price in Greek wholesale today reached EUR 276,47 per kilowatt? She is the highest in Europe today. That's a stock market, you know. He plays every day. Today it's 276,47. What about this story, Mr. Screka? This is where people are waiting to give answers. It sees Parliament, sees the Minister for Energy. Come on, me, you and my colleagues are paying for it. We can. Thank God! People are squeezing out. So, on the one hand, you didn't come with solutions, not even painkillers today with what you're doing. As far as the general interest with doses "Theodosis" is concerned again, it is never relieved of them. The next bills will be bombs. Today the kilowave now has 276,47. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u121	There is no other colleague, so, Mr Screka, you will give your answers to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u122	Very quickly, Mr President, I would like to say that the government's provision to support Greek consumers and domestic consumers, the Greek households from this truly exceptional situation of the enormous increase in energy prices at European level and at world level are neither aspirins nor compresses, as the honourable Member has said. I will tell you that only in the last four months have we spent 670 million euros in order to be able to deal with and support Greek households. The nearly 700 million for just a quarter I do not think they are aspirins and I would like to say that in proportion to the population and the gross national product of our country, Greece has taken care of and measures to support households with regard to explosive power increases far greater than any other state in Europe today. So Greece, the Greek Government, is here, supporting Greek households, of course, as far as potential is concerned with a huge international energy crisis that we have not experienced in at least the last few decades. However, here we come with concrete proposals, unlike the opposition and SYRIZA. What were SYRIZA's proposals to support Greek households? Basically, to delete, to cancel the excise duty on electricity, on natural gas. And I ask: How much is the excise duty on electricity? It is EUR 5 electricity now, when we give for the months of November and December 130 euros a subsidy per electricity megawatt now. The excise duty on electricity is 5 euros, which SYRIZA wants us to abolish, 130 euros is now the subsidy that our Government gives. Do you understand the difference, how do we deal with this problem and how would SYRIZA deal with it if the non-violent was in the government? [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] From there on, for both farmers and industrial consumers, this provision of Article 1 applies, that is to say they will not pay the public services. He says the honourable Member from SYRIZA: but this is a suspension, it's not a gift, it's not a deletion. I come to tell you that today this public service account is surplus. We believe that the surpluses created this year - but also in time - will come because of the little interconnection of Crete, so that we will ultimately not need these 50 million to charge to consumers. However, if we are fully responsible and serious, we will come to do so when and by doing so, by means of the result, it is shown that the surpluses are indeed enough. In any case, we do the same for gas. At the moment, SYRIZA's proposal for gas was to delete the excise duty, which is only EUR 1 per thermal megawatt now. We grant a subsidy of 15% for a reduction of EUR 10 per thermal megawatt. We have already announced this and will then see what we will do from now on and for the next quarter, which is the heaviest quarter, with the biggest consumption of natural gas. We'll do something - you'll see, Mr. Colleague - because we're standing next to the households. We therefore give a grant of EUR 10 by way of the discount through the 'TRADEDER', from EUR 13 to EUR 20 per thermal megawatt, the suspension of network charges, a sum of EUR 23 to EUR 30. You would give a EUR 1 subsidy or ease the account, reducing or deleting the corporate tax on natural gas. The aid we give is 30 euros. From there on, I will tell you about the provision of the installation of woodland photovoltaics, which had been granted to individuals, citizens, farmers for agricultural use by law. I repeat that today, where there are woodlands, photovoltaics can be built. You're allowed. Where it's a farm land, it's allowed. Where land of a forest character is land for agricultural land, it shall not be permitted. That is what we consider to be a contradiction. So we come and solve it. Of course, thirty, forty, or fifty years ago, Mr. Famele, there was no photovoltaics to provide for the law at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u123	We also thank and continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Maraveya. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the day before the draft we are discussing today, Mr Tsipras expressed his concern at the alleged violent frustration that comes, as follows: "We are unfortunately in developments that are not good and we must attack the risk bell, take measures and, above all, take initiatives to reverse this perspective," said Mr Tsipras. What, though, is that the prospect that Mr. Tsipras wants to overthrow? The EUR 7.5 billion of the investments that the government incorporates into financial programmes? The environmental restoration of western Macedonia and the central Peloponnese, or rather the creation of new jobs, so that neither the older workers nor the younger people of these regions can find a job? This is obviously not what SYRIZA wants. He does not, however, even accept his own responsibilities, his own governance, which, while starting frustrating, did then completely fail. That is why today the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is coming to organise this transition and to solve the problems that SYRIZA had left unresolved since 2016. Minister, the transition to a cleaner energy mix, of course, is not just about western Macedonia and the central Peloponnese. And I am not only talking about the EUR 7.5 billion coming from European funds, which will obviously not only offer local communities, but also about the Greek economy as a whole. I am talking about the undeniable consequences of climate change, which our country is now experiencing, and even quite painfully. This also includes the European Union's policy of reducing air pollution by 55% by 2030, which Greece is also obliged to implement. The time horizon set by the government in 2028 is also a milestone for a fair development transition, making Greece a pioneer in the European Union. Thus, the transition regions were focused on national planning, with the aim of economic revitalising them by rehabilitating lignite and replacing it with innovative investments that will turn local economic development into modern productive activities. A characteristic example is the installation of new drug production units in Megalopoli, which will bring know-how and high-level jobs, supported by the National Plan for Fair Development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Financing has also been programmed by specific instruments. The operational programme of the new ESDP on a fair transition to '21'27, the Recovery and Resilience Fund, the Invest in you to leverage private capital, the European Investment Bank and the Green Fund. At the same time, under the recent Strategic Investment Act, projects fully implemented in the transition regions were envisaged, providing corresponding economic incentives and facilitating their authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, the great challenge for the areas that today depend on lignite production is the transformation of the production model and the creation of new jobs, through their real development, not with benefits and tips, as the Anti-Policy and this would not only solve a lasting problem, but would also be an insult to the proud citizens of western Macedonia and the central Peloponnese. Mr President, all parties must stop underestimating Greek women and Greeks, not consider them to be either gullible or foolish. And I would like, on this occasion, to refer to the ongoing debate on the Koronian and the level of the rival, which we have heard from the Opposition. The government has taken a very clear position. It takes all necessary measures to protect public health, regardless of political costs. On the contrary, all we see from the other parties is blurred and attempted to exploit the pandemic. What should I first remember? The criticism of Mrs Ahtsoglou, claiming that there is a reduction in health expenditure in the budget of 2022, while only regular health expenditure for the Ministry of Health amount to EUR 4.52 billion in 2022, compared with EUR 4.27 billion in 2021, an increase of EUR 250 million? What to comment on when the SYRIZA financial sector itself calculates this supposed reduction to 820 million as a sum of 280 million, which says they are cut from public hospitals and 600 million supposedly cut by the Ministry of Health from the costs for the pandemic. Where is the credibility of the counterpopulation in the economy when it cannot agree with its own figures? Where is the credibility of SYRIZA in health, when as a government in 2018 announced the introduction of compulsory vaccination for communicable diseases, while today denounces it? I am presenting here for the Minutes the announcement by the then Minister of Health and colleague, Mr Xanthos, who, in reply to the House, committed himself to institutionalising the compulsoryity, even for certain populations, without allegedly preventing him from having problems with the constitutionality of the targeted - I repeat - compulsory vaccinations that he wanted in 2018, but today SYRIZA does not want. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Maraveyas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In two words, opposition, with institutions and outdated perceptions, it cannot continue to be done. So, in this bill we cannot agree with SYRIZA, because there is not one single place for him, on which we can discuss. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, this does not mean that Greece does not take steps forward, for the present and for the future of our children. And the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is constantly supporting liberation, with a planned and long-term plan, to act in the field of energy too, a transition that is fair to everyone. I should like to close, Mr President, in a few words, on the amendment by the Ministry of Health, which the Minister has come to support. The 110 million, for the extraordinary Christmas allowance to health, is another commitment from the New Democracy, which is being made and has not only a symbolic but also a substantial value. It is an essential recognition of the offering of the people of the ESS and health centres, found in 2021 on the front line of battle against the coronary, who will continue to fight for as long as necessary, with this government next to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u125	We also thank Mr Maraveya and the consistency of time. Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor now. Here, Mr Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to comment, first of all, on the amendment by the Ministry of Energy and the Environment and say that it is an important aid to all these entrepreneurs and farmers who are suffering from an excessive increase in energy costs. Already the Government of New Democracy, in four months, gives 670 million, the highest percentage in the European Union, proportionately. And today it goes on to regulate, which is probably not crumbs, is not a compress, if - as Mr Famelos says - 150 million is the cost of burdening all these professional consumers, of giving a solution for 50 million euros, obviously not something negligible, but something important and will help professionals and especially farmers in particular. Today, in plenary, we are discussing a very important bill. A bill that comes to regulate, plan and organize the next day of the regions, which are directly related to the implementation of the large project of the Greek Government, the rehabilitation of lignite. A bill, which ensures and cares for all the changes that will take place in the areas directly affected and in the lives of the citizens, who live and work and work in them. Indeed, during the committee meetings in the past few days, there has been an in-depth debate and I think that the issues raised by the opposition, but also by the institutions, have been answered in detail and clearly. At the beginning of my position, I would like to focus, in particular, on the data we have today, on the issue of liberation and as a result of this planning for a fair development transition. And what are these? Firstly, with regard to the political initiatives, for achieving the objectives of the European Union, for reducing emissions of pollutants by 55% in 2000, for the European Union's wider strategy for transition to a climate-neutral economy by 2050 and addressing the huge problem of climate change. Therefore, the issue of deprivation is not our inspiration. We are right, but it is a reality that we are organised to deal with and effectively. No, like you, who's done four and a half years. As, of course, you did nothing and no other challenge, which was to face and face the four years when you were government. Do not shake us today, the finger that we are not interested in the people of these regions, when on your own days lignite production was reduced by a lot -50% I heard - and, already, the negative effects were. Like, you did nothing at all to deal with it, as usual. We deal with things, we make important decisions, you, you put all this under the carpet. That is why our country, in the last two and a half years, has been in the centre of European developments and has taken the lead. This is demonstrated by the current legislation, in all related fields, such as RES, spatial, environmental policies and others. Mainly, it is demonstrated by the decision of the Prime Minister himself, Mrs Mitsotakis, who in 2019 from the general meeting of the UN, spoke about changing the productive model in the rural areas of our country, until 2028. A decision, which we all have to recognise, was a milestone in defining the policy of fair development in these regions. Why, it is easy to understand, that in order to achieve the objectives set by the European Union, we must finish the lignite. And to finish the lignite, we need to have a plan for the next day of those areas that are vitally dependent on him. The choice of this strategy therefore led to Greece becoming the first country to draw up an integrated plan, the energy and climate plan, in which the goal of total degreasing the country was integrated by 2028 at the latest. The second point I would like to make, which is of key importance for the debate that is taking place today in Parliament, is that the decision on the energy transition is not today, is not new, rather the need is not today and not a decision. And I say it, and if you disagree, disprove me. The need is 'old'. And where's the new one? It is that the New Democracy Government is now taking the decision, highlighting the issue, organising the way in which this need will be addressed and setting specific targets. It goes hand in hand with a thorough dialogue with society and those directly involved, in order to explain and present the next day's plan. We believe in energy transition, we seek to achieve this, and that is obviously something that requires difficult and very specific decisions. It requires planning to be able to meet the challenges that such a huge project will bring. And we know that the major challenges concern addressing the wider economic and social impacts, the issue of housing heating, where there are parallel losses and clearly the transformation of the productive model of the energy transition. In this context and with this data, the Ministry introduces the draft law on fair development of the regions, detailing the plan of the new era and the development of the regions, the plan to support people affected at work, their own and their families. The National Fair Development Goal is the answer to the inertia of recent years and looks straight at the challenge of a smooth transition, introducing all the necessary institutional tools to implement it. The primary objective, as has been said, to make clear the flexibility and rapid implementation of the policies planned. This is therefore our design that provides for resources of 1,7 billion and investments of over 7 billion, provides for the upgrading of district heating for Kozani, Voordaia and Amyntai and networking with natural gas pipelines in the municipalities of Florinna and Megalopolis. It ensures significant incentives for investment in vulnerable areas and includes other investments in projects, infrastructure and other policies. In other words, an integrated model of governance and coordination is established for all stakeholders, covering the levels of planning and planning of management and implementation of the specific plan for a fair development transition, with the aim of optimising efficiency, speed and transparency. A regulatory framework is introduced to address the serious economic and social consequences of the transition and bureaucratic obstacles to the implementation of important projects for the national economy are being eliminated. That's our proposal. Of course, it is no surprise that once again we have heard nothing from the Opposition. Once again we hear them a little confused by the Members of the parties. I understand that you want everything to remain as it is, that we continue to use lignite until we build wind turbines, but where we make them, you complain, we build photovoltaics, but you do not vote for any bill that favours its development - Mr Apostle told us that he disagrees with the photovoltaics in Kozani, because he wants to become agricultural investments - and also, demonise the gas that has been declared as a transport fuel with far fewer pollutants. If you don't like natural gas, why did you develop a network for your day in all the cities, in Giannitsa, in Veria, in the Peloponnese? And it is true that we have heard nothing from you about the long delay you have had in these four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u127	Finish, Mr. Stamenitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u128	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, the New Democracy Government and the ministries involved are moving on to a very large reform. Who's that? The rehabilitation of the country by lignite, placing the region of Western Macedonia at the core of the national planning, as well as the municipalities of Megalopolis, Tripoli, Gortynia and Echalis dependent on the mining and use of lignite, as well as the regions of North and South Aegean dependent on the use of oil for the production of electricity. This is a great bet that we are determined to achieve and prove our decision is today's draft law, which I dare say that anyone who really cares about the future of these regions and the people who live there must support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Stamenitis. The Minister for Health has the floor now, Mr Ploris, in order to place himself on the amendment number 1195 in special 99.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I place myself on the amendment, I would like to inform the National Representation, because it really is one of the times when a Minister feels angry. What happened yesterday with Mr Giannakou and the false and slandering complaint he made has no precedent. I can accept the criticism and you can make this criticism if we have done all the necessary actions and we have the ITH beds that are relevant or we should have more. You can criticize us if and since we have the doctors who are relevant or should have more. Same thing you can say about nurses. But a complaint is made that beds are being kept empty in order to have them if some of our people are sick to send them, I beg your pardon, they are characterizing the Minister of Health as a criminal. And it would be the least if that were only for the Minister of Health. In order to make a transfer to a Clinic ICU, the following procedure is followed: for a man who needs a Clinic ICU who does not have the specific hospital, the physician in consultation with the hospital's intensifier is uploading the request to be transferred to the EMCDDA - EMCDDA platform. The hospital with an empty bed accepts the request approved by the intensive worker at the specific hospital. So the complaint that beds are being held insults doctors, nurses and other staff of the EMCDDA who manage this whole platform. And that's an insult. And in the offenses, whoever transfers them must respond. So, before I came here, I filed a report of defiance of actions at the Ice Bay Attorney's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office, in order that those who say that VIP beds are held, so if anyone needs to be in touch with the doctors of the hospitals, in consultation with the nurses, in consultation with the EKA, say "Don't transfer the one who needed to be detained in Clinic ICU" to account. And I saw that the WTO says she'll report next week. But more than he was saying now. They dared to support themselves by names and to say who are the ones who have this circuit, and they say how the process that I have already described is taking place. And in the question of some, "How can there be empty emptiness beds and, at the same time, there are people intubated outside the IF" the answer is simple. First, emptying a IF bed means that it takes time for someone else to be able to enter the IF bed. Secondly, there are our fellow men who are intubated outside of the ICM and who have a metaphor for transport, because they are not haematologically stable and cannot be transported. Thirdly, the hospital may declare that it has a Clinic ICU not have a corresponding part of it that is intubated outside of the ICU and may not be able to support it. Fourthly, we have double beds for non-COVID and COVID incidents and cannot coexist with each other. Fifth, it can be transported that is to be such a distance, that is to say, having ten empty beds in Crete and you must transport people from Thessaloniki, which is not going to happen because it will be much more difficult for the patient's safety. So, to remain in criticism, which has to do if we have strengthened the National Health System and you have often put it in place, and I have never reacted strongly, because I consider it a reasonable criticism to which we have the answers, which may not cover you. But the picture that doctors, nurses, people of EKA are in a circuit, in order to keep the meth enclosures closed is something that should be disapproved by everyone, as did the president of hospital doctors, because they are insulting most of all, Matina Pagoni. And whoever really thinks that this is the case to come. And I am not one of the people I say, as others have said, "If he has evidence, he should go to the prosecutor." I went to the D.A., and I gave the report, and those who have these evidence to go back up. I'm presenting the press reports on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Athanasios Ploris, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now, on the part of the amendment quickly. In the first part and in the first article of the amendment is the allowance announced by the Prime Minister, given to specific categories of all nursing and medical staff serving in the National Health System, health centres - health centres - health centres are included - in rural hospitals, at various other special clinics, which exist in EAW, EAW and, respectively, those serving in military hospitals. There will also be a legislative improvement to include those from the Ministry of National Defence who are not serving in military hospitals, but have been integrated from other units into vaccination centres. Generally the will is that those who are health caregivers and provide services to vacant centres should also receive the allowance, apart from the managers, who are already in the category they receive, because they are personnel who come from the Ministry of Health. They will not receive this benefit for those who are in this period in a job suspension. In other words, those on leave can take it, but not those on job suspension. In order to be able to receive the allowance they must have worked from 1 September to 30 November. Similarly, with the rest of the articles, on the one hand, we are resolving an issue that is also in existence and, on the other, many fellow Members have dealt with me with the piece of newspapers so that they can be paid directly. There is the possibility of concluding contracts with companies that store and transport the piece of vaccines, especially now, because there has been a very large increase in vaccinations. And let the National Representation know that as soon as the first-dose cycle has been completed, we will have exceeded the European average in terms of vaccination rates, as we will reach 80% in the adult population and 70% in the population as a whole. Following the implementation of the measure for the sixty years, where there is now an administrative fine, out of our five hundred and eighty thousand fellow citizens already, at the moment we are talking about, they have been vaccinated or scheduled an appointment of over eighty-five thousand, i.e. 17% of those not vaccinated, and over nine hundred thousand, since the possibility with the quarter, when time shortened to make the vaccination, they have planned or made their commemorative dose. Furthermore - and I conclude, Mr President - the last article is linked to the decision taken by the Committee on Infectious Substances. The certificate of illness will no longer be valid for six months, but will be valid for three months. This was provided for in a ministerial decision that will now be adopted. It is the decision that always comes out of action. A period will be included for those who, now that we are talking about, have expired their certificate, but have no fault of their own, since they knew in semester, and there will be a time for those who are now, by the end of January, able to make the commemorative dose and have no effect because they will have expired their certificate. This amendment seeks, where there were various sanctions, whether it was the part of the lifting of the suspension of health, whether it was the part of the over sixty that had to make the commemorative dose, or the over sixty who have the administrative fine, and because this was provided by law, there is, respectively, a shortening of the timeframe from the hundred and eighty days in these ninety days. This is an amendment, which at least in its first article should be supported by all the groups, as it is one, even small, reward and recognition to these people, who are on the frontline of the battle, and these people - to return to the original topic - are those who are swaying when someone says to them that they are responsible for staying outside intensively, because they keep these people, falsely as they say, closed beds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to ask something about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u133	You're welcome, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u134	I think we are at least entitled to know what we are voting on. Minister, it is true that the minimum recognition could not be objected to. Of course, we could say that you could do something more brave, such as permanent upgrading of the payroll, especially doctors, replacement of jobs because of retirement, guaranteeing a job prospects for contractors and a whole lot of others, such as heavy and unhealthy. Especially for the medical payroll I wanted to say that it is a reason the doctors are leaving and we are not in these circumstances. But in any case, I would like to make a few points out. The first is that it is planned to be incomprehensible but not tax-free, as is done in other social groups. Is that true, or are you going to do some kind of legal? The second is that we have not specifically seen that workers in TWGs and mental health units are mentioned. The third, as far as those on a job suspension are concerned, will they not receive the one that corresponds to them until 31-8-2021, who have been working until then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Perka. Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately you continue to adopt unusually high tones for the criticality of the country's health situation. I understand what you have done, even afterward, because from what I have been informed, the public prosecutor's request for such a procedure has been preceded. But you must respond to the Greek people if anyone who will need an intensive treatment unit today, either as a patient of COVID or as a patient of other diseases, can safely find a treatment unit or replace this with the intubation outside the ICM. That is the question that you must answer today, with the similar style, and not hide behind an aggressive style, about a story or complaint, which indeed creates a climate of concern. And I want to get a clear answer to that. This has to do with the integration of the private health sector into this national effort, which is now beyond party controversy. The second one is in Article 1 of the amendment, obviously because you move the time for the implementation of the decision of the Behraki Committee, namely to grant the allowance of heavy and unhealthy health to sanitary workers, which is our proposal and which our late President Fofi Gennimata had said so many times in this House. We have tabled an amendment dozens of times, there is a decision by the committee, and yet you do so in time, and you think that you are currently replacing it with this allowance, for which I agree with you that it should go to the administrative and workers of the military hospitals, who went and helped the vaccination centre, but all those who contributed to this effort and who are in vaccination centres are in hospitals. You should take due care of that. The third, in Article 4, I would expect you to attach the committee's recommendation to this amendment. You are talking about a committee proposal, which I do not see in the amendment you have tabled. I do not doubt that the committee has obviously agreed, but I would also expect there to be a recommendation from the committee saying that, yes, the certificate of illness no longer applies for more than 90 days, so that we know that here we are coming as a legislature and with political will we validate substantiated scientific suggestions and decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u137	Mr Gregoriadis has the floor as the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u138	Dear Minister, I listened very carefully to you extinguishing against the "female", as you said, the "inadmissible reputation" for the 40-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-speaking, so-called-speaking, and no VIP-speaking politician or no parasitic oligarch-speaker is needed. I have two questions for you, Minister. I will be brief and please answer. Do you have a moment, at the moment when we lose from eighty to a hundred people a day, even a large health facility in Attica or northern Greece? That's my first question. And the second: If, the non-born, the Prime Minister of the country, Mr.Mitsotakis, needs ICU tomorrow morning, he will wait for for forty-eight hours, such as a hundred and twenty of our fellow men, in a common bed, in a ranch, or he will find directly, and if he finds out directly, this confirms the truth, that there are "cava" intensive for politicians or parasitics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u139	Mr Minister, Mr Pleis, you have the floor to answer the questions of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Katrin, really, my style was intense. But come on in my place! Because I will answer your question: Do you think there is now a decision by the Minister of Health on Greek territory in consultation with doctors and nurses to be detained beds? That was the complaint. That is not what you are saying now - and I will answer it to you - nor what the WTO is saying now, because it is folding. To have anyone out - obviously, the Minister of Health, apparently, the doctors, apparently, who handle the EKP platform, because it is precisely this transparent process - they have forty-seven meth beds empty and, in fact, ask for a Clinic of Clinics and we say 'no, why can Katrinis become ill, should I have it detained', is it possible for this thing to be able to support it and not be outraged? I am not outraged when colleagues come here and say 'you have not done the necessary'. I answer and we go into a controversy, but here it is actually described as having a criminal circuit, which keeps meth beds and selects who will get in and leave other people. That's why you're wrong, Mr. Katrin. I said yesterday that I was going to the prosecutor's office, and today I went, because the prosecutor has the initiative of course to move, but here it is quite different. Because at the first moment I said that whoever says these things would be called. And he will be called and apologise to the nurses and doctors, not the Minister. The minister let him go, let him judge. People, however, who are in the IF beds and heard that they are the ones keeping the IF bed closed. Because in a hospital if there was a closed Clinic IF, everyone would know there and the head of nurses and nurses and doctors and keep it for another purpose. As to what you are saying, but that, Mr Katrin, is what we say and it is a reality. We've got about three hundred BC beds. In these IF beds there are times when there are waiting. When there is waiting, the hospital doesn't have a Cylinnamon, the man who suffers, if need to be intubated, intubate where? In surgical beds, MF beds or simple special beds that have the monitor and intubation. If he clears a bed of meth, he's being carried. If it can be transported, it goes up to the platform and where there is a Clinic IF and justifies the transport - because there are also distance issues - the transfer takes place. Where there is no, there is waiting with these procedures, whether in surgical beds - doctor you are and you know that surgical beds and beds of IF have the logistics infrastructure and medical staff - or in special beds. This is a day-to-day battle. There are times when, Mr Katrin, there are expectations, as I imagine you know, that there were premises. Because I have also referred to the private sector, I have said it again, and I will say it again: The whole private sector IF beds are in the management system in the EAW, Mr Katrin and Mr Gregoriadis, all of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u141	Are you ordering them, or are you paying them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Gregoriadis, listen to what he says now, ladies and gentlemen. He says, "Who are you ordering or paying for?" We don't have communism. When you do something, you pay for it. Do you understand that? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Like Mr. Varoufakis goes and gets paid, so if you get a bed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u143	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u144	Don't interrupt, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u145	So, Mr. Catarini, you guys think it's obvious that when you take a bed, you're already paying for it. Therefore, all the IF beds in the private sector are located in the system of the platform and when emptying a bed, the EBRD again sees whether it has been cleared to the specific hospital and carries non COVID incidents, however. Why non COVID? Because over there there are patients from other diseases, there are not purely COVID beds in the private sector, but non COVID actually serves the system. And the numbers we give include these beds, which are more than two hundred currently available in this process. The others are occupied, because there were people who were sick and who were in private clinics. For simple beds if we want to discuss, we have also taken for COVID in Larissa and Thessaloniki. We're talking about two hundred and fifty beds in Larissa, two hundred 30 COVID beds in Thessaloniki and so many non COVID. But, for the IF beds, it's a total of what we have. So, over there, yes, Mr. Katrin and he waits, but that's something else, different. And there is a battle and there judge the minister. But, to have my meth beds empty and to keep them, while we can put on people, they don't exist. There are no beds every day, because people are diluted or unfortunately deceived. At this time, apparently, the system is empty the MIT bed. It takes a year. There are ITH beds - you went through it and you and we had the conversation here - for a while they didn't have any staff and therefore, they didn't work. You asked me the timely question that the doctor returned from "Agios Andreas" to the Tower, so there are such issues. But that's all we're trying to deal with. Finally, as regards what has been said, yes, indeed, those who are suspended will not receive the job allowance, as will those who are on leave, except for a specific reason, which is mentioned. They must have worked this time. The allowance is for those who are in battle, and the battle is now happening. It's not for any other reason. Specific procedures are excluded and are essentially limited to health, medical and administrative staff throughout the National Health System and special categories. What you asked about, health centers included - they had taken it last time - but there is also a report that they are the TOMYs. It may also be legal in order to avoid any problem, but it is included, as is the case now, only in health care which is now under consideration and which is not subject to these categories.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u147	Mr. President, what's my turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u148	I have a schedule, but you're not after. Now there is the reason for the New Democracy MP, Skondra Azina, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in all matters, but also now in energy, in the bill we are debating today, all we hear is assembling, petro-muting and levelling. In this way, you don't get any more useful, but you don't get to be either the most enjoyable after all. All that is confirmed is that you have not learned and continue to follow the path of populism. You see that the government takes measures and exhausts all margins to support the energy crisis of all Greeks, all branches, farmers, businesses, households, etc. I'm going through the bill. Illegalisation is perhaps the most characteristic and important station on the road that the European Union has taken, with a view to becoming the first climate-neutral continent. The planned reduction and finally, the cessation of the use of lignite for electricity production is an ambitious project, inextricably linked to international energy developments and global economic data. On this path, our country is right in the front of the battle against climate change and sustainable energy transition. In our energy mix we leave the lignite plants, which are located mainly in western Macedonia and Megalopolis. We take advantage of the possibilities, which provides us with the powerful potential of the renewable energy sources that we have in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, defoliation is a huge bet for Greece and a key priority for the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as reflected in the National Energy and Climate Plan. We are aiming for the complete and definitive rehabilitation of our country and our national economy until 2028 of this polluting fuel both for health and the environment and for the decapitation of local economies in those areas which have been almost exclusively dominated by lignite mining and production activity. Looking at the problems caused by coal and suspended dust in the atmosphere, we see that all these years are a key cause of very serious health issues among workers and residents of lignite areas. Equally important is the environmental burden, after nearly three hundred thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide have been discharged, by stepping up the conditions leading to the climate crisis, which we have already begun to live in our own country. In analysing economic conditions, we find that lignite dependency is unstable and deprives these areas of other important economic activities with greater prospects for the inhabitants and their quality of life. Ladies and gentlemen, RES technologies have evolved dramatically in recent years and energy storage costs have constantly declined. We have to take into account that since 2013 there has been compulsory application of the greenhouse gas emissions market system, a system which, when the pollutant emission index is exceeded, bears the cost of producing electricity with hundreds of millions of euros. The European Union follows the Green Agreement on the Strategic Transition to a Climate neutral Union. According to it, clean greenhouse gas emissions should be zeroed by 2050. This is a development strategy that will mobilise investments of at least three billion euros over the next few decades. The aim is to develop modern economic activities that will protect the environment and the health of citizens, activities that will be competitive and efficient in the use of natural resources. All the above points to a reasonable one-way path. There is no question as to whether, but when we are going to get rid of lignite and, of course, when the transition to clean energy is to be completed. The course, of course, towards climate neutrality is characterised by difficulties that we have to face. On the one hand, the uninterrupted stability and security of the electricity system and the country's energy supply must be ensured. Indeed, on this issue, Minister, since the first days of our government, I have tabled a specific proposal relating to farms and the countryside, and I think it can make a significant contribution to the stability of the electricity system. I will immediately seek to discuss it in detail and, if appropriate, to be included in the energy formation. On the other hand, there is a significant number of regions, which still depend on industrial processes of fossil fuel intensity or greenhouse gas emissions. In order to make a fair transition to all social, economic and environmental challenges in the areas affected, the Government has developed an integrated plan for a fair development transition, a plan aimed at the overall development of the lignite regions through the creation of strategic capacities for maintaining and strengthening their social fabric. Their support is planned in the areas of economic diversification, the acquisition of new skills by workers and environmental rehabilitation with enhanced tax incentives to attract investment, specific land uses for the tens of thousands of acres of land decommissioned, actions to develop alternative agriculture, industry and services. All of the above important roles are played by the Community structural programmes for the post-linerning period which come to our country and reach close to EUR 7.5 billion, which almost lost money. We do not forget that the issue of liberation began on SYRIZA, but after some time Mr Tsipras' government then indulged and completely deactivated. Immigration fiasco in SYRIZA described it as the other parties of counterpopulation. Since 2015, nothing has happened. Colleagues of Officers, in words you were environmental supporters, but at the same time you continued policies with greenhouse gases. As a result, among the many others who lost during your five-year government, too, to lose valuable time for a milder transition to a cleaner energy mix in a developmental and socially fair way. Today the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis comes to cover the lost ground and to make up for lost time, to make use of available European resources and to create investment interest. We are responding to the two main challenges, firstly how to tackle the economic and social impact of unemployment in areas that are almost entirely dependent on lignite plants and secondly, how to change the productive model of transition regions, implementing development projects and creating new jobs in clean energy, industry and commerce, agricultural production, tourism, technology and education. Others all years stay in theories and words. We are making use of time and we are moving forward with a comprehensive and realistic plan. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I enter the bill, I would say that the Minister of Health's report to the Ice Bay Attorney is self-evident. Another thing political controversy, other misery. Having been the same Minister for Health in the past and speaking of all the health ministers who have gone through this position, it is completely inconceivable that any political chief should give such a mandate to know the loss of human life. As regards the bill, I would like to say to the House that I accept the following ministerial amendments. I will speak about the two developments at the end: the Ministry of Labour under the general number 1164 and the specific number 98 - the Minister of Labour will come to support it - of the Minister of Health with a general number of 1165 and a special number 99 supported by the Minister of Health, the Minister of the Environment with a general number of 1166 and a special number 100 supported by the Minister of the Environment just now both of the Ministry of Development and Investment. The first under General Number 1163 and Special Number 97 are a number of arrangements concerning the Public Investment Programme and the REACT-EU, in the EIA and in the prolongation of certain deadlines. They have no special political interest. They're techniques. The second amendment, with a general number 1167 and a special number 101, is related to the Metropolitan Park of Prasinos and Recreation of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek – Agios Kosmas and has various arrangements for speeding up the licensing procedures in the Greek. If there is a question on them, I would be very happy to ask and then answer it. I come to the specific draft law on the DSSM and the defoliation. I will try in a few minutes to explain to the public what the decision by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on liberation is about, what consequences it has, what the bill we are voting on today is, and how we have arrived here. First of all, we all know that all this discussion organized began after the announcement of the Prime Minister of Greece in September 2019 from the United Nations Climate Summit's step in the United Nations, when it announced that Greece decided to be the first country in Europe, which progressed to degree by setting specific timetables. I have to say that every reasonable observer of political things in Europe would expect that such an initiative would be more likely to take place in a European country by parties on the left, which are usually defined as parties and ecology than by a centre-right party. Nevertheless, in our homeland, our New Democracy and our Government, demonstrating our full respect for the environment and our responsibility towards the next generations, have taken responsibility for a difficult political decision and politically difficult I mean, because it also has great operational difficulties, but also political conflicts and confrontations in these regions. One would expect that at least this decision would receive great support from the parties, who define themselves as environmental parties. As all in Greece is wrong, so is this. The first parties that raised up all the anti-pollification anti-GPIZA were SYRIZA with direct support from the lignite plants... Don't be like that, Mrs. Perka! Together we were at the event at Mr. Pantelides' hotel in Florina,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u152	What were we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u153	...with your own people yelling for lignite and with a banner "Why shut down lignite units?"
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u154	What are you talking about? It's completely false!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u155	I would refer you to those who listen to me in the videos of the time. While one would expect that today, at least at the outset, that is to say to make defoliation, the parties on the left and the ecology, and I do not know what else they would say "to make liberation, I vote on it, but I disagree with everything else", here is the return: SYRIZA has united his forces with every reaction in the region, just to care for his ears and win any vote - or this will succeed at the end - and Mera25, indirectly but clearly, proposed that Mr Arsenis should leave the House yesterday to withdraw this draft law and imitate - says - the example of the United Kingdom which has been gradually withdrawing from the use of natural gas domestically. And when I of course testified to him that the United Kingdom did take this decision, while deciding to set up many nuclear power plants throughout the United Kingdom, he preferred to leave the Chamber. I mean, that's where we heard the asbestos! Tell us, indirectly but clearly - Mera25 - why we are not doing nuclear power plants in Greece! So here you don't get out of Greece. So let's go calmly to explain to the Greek people. Because, unfortunately, with the political forces we have a regular debate of normal people, there cannot be any, as it turns out. I repeat: what would be the normal discussion? Not "Go to the government and what perfect it does" - counter-population you are! - but in principle "yes" in the bill because we believe that all are supposed to be defoliation and, in fact, to vote against "METAVA S.A.", whether PPC was properly studied, whether the procedures are correct, whether the valuation is correct. In all of this you have every right to express any kind of disagreement. However, you do not do this because, if you said "is in principle" to liberation, you would lose all the audience that you tried to build in western Macedonia and the Megalopolitan area, which is to hide this fact. Now, it coincided with this draft law, the draft law on a fair development transition, with the energy crisis of this year and the forces of populism started again mainly on the Internet. Because in Greece - and so is with the vaccines - everyone writes everything that goes down to their head. He told the committee yesterday, and Mr Villardos from the Greek Solution, to go through this House - you will allow me to say, ladies and gentlemen - that the sky is foolish - that is, the nonsense that reaches the sky in length of time - that is to say, the increase in the electricity price today is responsible for the decision to close the lignite plants in three years' time! Come on, Christ and Holy shit! Come on, Christ and Holy shit! Well, the people who listen to us should know. The lignite factories today are working in the Full House. As much energy as lignite can give Greece today, it gives it, and as much effect as lignite can have at the price of KWh we are paying today - unfortunately, at a very high price - this impact has. What will be the impact when the lignite plants are closed, we'll see when they close. In the intervening period, however, it is not only enough to close the lignite plants. We are supposed, in the intervening period, to have done a number of other things in our energy mix and the production of electricity from natural gas plants and from renewable energy sources, which will balance this damage - if there is also damage! Because with the price of carbon dioxide rights where it has arrived today on the planet - yesterday it was, Mr Skourlet, at EUR 85 per tonne - the idea of burning lignite, apart from ecologically destructive, is also extremely financially inconsistent. In other words, lignite is no longer the cheap fuel of the past which, in fact, financed the development of the Greek economy, but because of these rights and because of the old times of the plants it is extremely expensive. You're losing money, too, except for everything else. So we're making it clear to the public, nothing to do with each other. Regardless of the facts. He wrote it and a newspaper, if I remember correctly, "Dimoratia", Nikos. "Ambulance, they bring the law of a DSSM when KWh goes up," this newspaper said yesterday. Secondly - and here is the major one, in which SYRIZA has said nothing to either the committee or to the plenary - demilitarisation, in fact, I told you, has officially started since the Prime Minister of Greece, Mr Mitsotakis, said that I intend to do this. Officially. So the historian of the future when he writes a date, he writes it. As we all know, the 'official' is not the beginning of an event. Why do we historians do? Let's go and see a fact of what duration it really has. We find a milestone - in this case, the Prime Minister's announcement - but we are also following the real development of the phenomenon, so that we can see when it really happened. In Greece, frustration began in the announcement by the Prime Minister? Of course not. Immigration had already begun and moved forward and very quickly, precisely because it was economically inconsistent. To say it just so people can tell. There are units, built many decades ago, which slowly ends after one another, because many polluting elements are emitted, such as - for example - sulphur. In order for these units to be able to take more legally operating time, based on the environmental legislation of Greece and Europe, very serious investments are needed. Some of these investments are over 50, 60 and 100 million euros per unit. Just because the lignite seemed to be a non-economic fuel interest or because PPC had various pathogens in the past, such investments had not been made. So some units over time came out of operation, because it was now illegal for them to operate, and some other units were working, because now the current they produced was extremely expensive. So, during the five-year period of SYRIZA, the reduction in energy from lignite to the energy mix of the country reached 54%, and that was something that the SYRIZA government celebrated as the biggest shift towards renewable energy sources and as an ecological policy. For this, more than 50%, the frustration that had already occurred in the five years SYRIZA, had there been some organized policy, an organised plan by SYRIZA, so that it could reverse economic decline in western Macedonia and Megalopolis, which this natural flow of time certainly brought to these regions? Answer: No. What did SYRIZA say to the committee? What was his argument? That just before they left, a few months before the 19's national elections, at the end of their term of office, they made a ministerial decision setting 6% of the Green Fund for these regions, which, of course, was never implemented. In other words, five years they did nothing, and a little before the elections they made a ministerial decision, without a single euro really entering the fund, and swinging the ministerial decision that has never been implemented in Parliament! Was there a study, five years, of unemployment in the region of western Macedonia? Was there a study to attract investment to western Macedonia? Was there a study of a special development plan in western Macedonia or Megalopolis? Has there been any specific scheme for incentives in this area, for the problems of companies under development law by companies that had previously joined for lignite, and now would they stay in the air? Absolutely nothing! Zero! SYRIZA is now coming in and he is shouting and screaming at us who are presenting the first organized project, take note, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy for the remaining 46%. 54% has already been done without any plan. And for the 46% left, we are now coming and tell those people - which, in fact, the region of western Macedonia for decades has had a monoculture in its economy, namely, its economy relies very much on lignite - that we will not leave you alone. We don't care about your luck. We are not a government that decided to shut down the units and leave. On the contrary, we have gone to Europe and negotiated with Nikos Papathanase a new map of state aid, especially for these regions, and we have received the highest state subsidy that Greece has ever received in a region, for the regions in western Macedonia, for Megalopolis and for the islands that have to deal with liberation. We have only taken the committee into the NSRF for this area, which concerns deflation. We have taken money from the European Fund. There's a counterpart Mrs. Perka, that per capita we've got less, but don't see one account, see the whole account. Seven billion euros, an unprecedented economic size for the Greek Government and the institutions to spend on changing the development model of regions that, until now, have been based on lignite. And this plan we're talking about today, like that, at the foot, as it sounded? I hear almost every bill the same phrase. You will forgive me, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, whenever I hear it, I understand that the one who speaks has not read any bills. Because it is not possible in all the bills to listen to the same criticism: it is fragmentary, clutchy, it has no vision, it has no beginning, it does not start, it does not end. That's what you say in all the bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u156	What if it's such a thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u157	Is everything like that, Mrs. Perka? To reach this draft today, note what has been preceded: The start of the dialogue, which began with the presence of my own then and Mr Hatzidakis as the co-components of Ministers in Florina, in Amytino, where we started talking with the actors - those who were able to enter the room, because from the outside there were some who were shouting about lignite and were not allowed to enter. In fact, I even remember that some of the mayors caught me leaving and told me that we were ashamed that we did not go in there to talk, but, if we were talking, we would be regarded as traitors and we had a lot of questions to do about what is really happening. For this is what you cultivated in the local society, and so a valuable time was wasted at the beginning. In any case, that was not the case. We have created the committee with Mr Mousouroulis, whom I would particularly like to thank for his contribution to what we have here today. Mr Mousouroulis is a person with great technical competence, as he is, as you know, a senior official of European bureaucracy and he knows the procedures there and helped us achieve what we have achieved. We proceeded to exhaustive dialogue with all operators, invited dozens of investments that we incorporated into the great master plan, negotiated with PPC. Nikos Papathanases didn't take a vacation this summer, and I want to present this. Whenever I called him, he was with PPC. He was more with PPC than with his wife. Why? So we can figure out how to get here today. And what has been the product of such a exhaustive previous procedure involving more than a hundred private companies, all the mayors, the district manager, the Commissioner responsible for Europe, three-four ministers, the master plan that came out of public consultation. All of this was before. To get here today and hear that it's rough, fragmentary, written in the leg. What else did you want us to do? Should we take it to the Pope you like him, give us approval and blessing? Therefore, whatever preparation could be done and the greater public consultation could be done to start with, it has been done. And why is the bill enough now? Because the new state aid map, which has the increased rates - which we negotiated and reached in the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance - in order to be able to invest with very significant properties, larger than the country, starts its implementation on 1 January. It may not be 1st, it may be at 10:00, it is a matter of Europe when the Charter is officially started, but in any case, from the beginning of January 2022. Therefore, once the new public aid map starts, and therefore investors who will come will be able to get the maximum subsidy allowed by the European Charter, the RBM begins to implement this whole project, which we have said before. So the plan comes from the opposition of the Left and the ecology, I repeat, and is against it, and they had nothing to do with it. This, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, is a sign of great political immaturity - not that I am surprised by the political immaturity of SYRIZA and Mera25. I want to be honest, I am not surprised at anything - but in any case, it is another very critical sign, especially because it is at the core of their so-called ideology, and that shows - to use a communist phrase - how opportunistic they are. For if they had the least faith in what they say, they would be proclaimers of liberation instead of its great wars. In fact, you are typhoonists, opportunists, where the wind goes to every theme and here to exculpation. But I would like to address my compatriots. I stress this because, unfortunately, yesterday in the Greek Parliament, in the committee, Mr Famello was told something quite unprecedented. He searched for New Democracy, who chose for the rapporteur of the bill Mr. Ceridis, who, he says, was a member of parliament from Athens and cannot be an assembled Athens to feel the pulse of western Macedonia. I had never heard such a difference of tracking within the Greek Parliament. That's the first time I've heard of it in the fifteen years I've been here. Because I, Mr Famele, come from Amyntino Florins, am very proud of this, and there are all my relatives and friends, with this identity I can address my fellow citizens, my compatriots and say to them: I fully share all the anxiety you have. I fully feel the fears, I feel the feeling fully in the face of a future that seems uncertain. I would like to assure you, however, that the Prime Minister of the country, myself, Nikos Papathanassis, anyone else, and the entire government and the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group, this national plan of degreeisation through the SADM, will be more watched by anyone else. It's the biggest bet ever. Much larger than the Greek, much larger than anything we've done so far. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Indeed - because we have heard this criticism too - because, he says, we are doing so first of all from all of Europe. Dear Nikos, we owe ourselves the zeal of laws, i.e., once this country, to be great, said, is not jealous of what others do and it is the same - this is from the "Saint of Epitaphs" - an example to imitate others rather than imitate others. Indeed, we spent a decade in which we were constantly imitating others and were looking to see how Germany did the same law, how France did the same law, how Hungary did the same law, to get - as we learned - in the Memorandum - the best practices, the best practices from each country. Here, at the frustration of Greece is a pioneer. And that is not a reason for hunger, it is a matter of praise, that in the great battle of humanity in climate change and in Europe's great battle for climate change, small Greece shows the way to the great. This should be applauded, Mr Arsenis, if you believed one millimeter of what you say, instead of seeing the great picture that all Europe is looking at what the Greek Government is now doing - and that will also be useful - because all Europe has put a bet, the RBM plan and the extinction to succeed. Why, if Greece which is the first country will fail, what other European country will follow and make it easily degreased? But if the first country does so, and they are all happy people, Europe will take it and turn it around and advertise it in every European province that has the same problem. So the European Commission itself is above to help. That is why you have seen the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Ferrara, be there and make such exhaustive dialogue with the operators. So I want to tell my compatriots, don't worry. We will be over this plan twenty-four hours a day, to solve every problem - and problems will be presented in the course, because of course the Greek public administration is powerless, because of course bureaucracy is present, because there are also technical difficulties here, there are no soil studies, they did not really know well - well what you are going to get. We are talking about a region - I say it for reasons of history, and I told SYRIZA yesterday - where PPC has announced a project in the area of Saints Anargyra in 2015 to get the land out of the mine. For some reasons PPC canceled this project and a year later collapsed a village, there in the famous mine and PPC suffered a huge disaster. One of SYRIZA has never been apologised for cancelling the land collection project over the mine, which a year later collapsed. Who was the one recommended to stop PPC’s work, which if it had been done, would there not be such a collapse and damage to both the inhabitants and PPC? One of SYRIZA didn't come! When I told Mr Famello yesterday - Mr Famelos often interrupts me and shouts and does things when I speak - but when I told him yesterday in committee - I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to see it - he did not listen to it. But they speak of ecology and of ecological interest, the people who - beware of! - have given an extension of operation at the Cardias Amyntaio station twice, while the time of operation has passed with all the European Union's rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u158	Didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u159	We shut the unit down! And SYRIZA had to extend this facility. So, ladies and gentlemen, you are pretending to be economists - because in your question you blame us that we are not economists, while you are - are coming and your answer is that we are the same? Is that your answer? Is that the answer you just said? I'm saying that to understand the size of your hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u160	We'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u161	And I've been saying something to my compatriots lately. They'll all understand it. Don't think we're leaving some rocks of any crown we're closing up. I wish it were! We have the greatest proof in front of us. SYRIZA in 2018 made a difficult political decision for him at the time to fight the monopoly regime of PPC, which was provided for in European legislation and, of course, in order to ensure Memorandum obligations, he voted here in Parliament to make lignite plants for sale. In fact, some members of SYRIZA's Western Macedonia had left the vote and did not vote. It was a difficult vote for SYRIZA and they took out these lignite plants for sale. Do you know how many individuals came and put forward a proposal to buy them? Zero! Do you know how much money was offered to PPC for these units? Zero! It must be the first time in the history we have some of the crown's gems, which no one wants on the planet nor touch them. Does he know why? Because they are not crown jewels, they are antiquated units, which, as I said before, want hundreds of millions of euros of investments and which, with the current values of the pollutants, do not make profits, but you must make euros out of your pocket and burn them with lignite to work. So either the government decided or did not decide - and I say it mainly for the Members of the region I see and look at them in the eyes, because I know the anxiety you have and how many times you come to my office to see the plan and what we are doing and we thank you for bringing the pulse of local society to us and we will do the same since 1 January, since the law has been passed - we have decided, ladies and gentlemen, whether or not, your units would close sooner or later, precisely because they are extremely polluting and extremely injurious. What's the difference? Instead of our Government expecting, as SYRIZA has done, time to spend, people finding or not finding jobs on their own, the social catastrophe to come to the region and to throw them into bad capitalism, we have decided to become for the first time in our lives not resentable but provided for, to run the situations we want, to find the money to finance and to offer our compatriots a new - and believe me - much better future than the past in which they lived to this day. Because yes, economic life in these regions after ligniteification will be much more competitive, not dependent on one industry, as it was on lignite. It has extremely competitive advantages both in western Macedonia and the Peloponnese that can be emerged and bear many kinds of investments. We have already found very large investments for both the region of Arcadia, dear Costa Vlasi, but also for the region of western Macedonia. And I would like to close - and thank you very much, Mr Nicos, for the tolerance - only with a little mention of what I have said in committee - and I also want it to be in the minutes of this House, dear Nicos - in the case referred to as 'hydrogen'. Indeed, one of the major projects that we want in the future to be able to implement in western Macedonia is a large hydrogen plant, the WHITE DRAGON, a giant investment project involving all the major private companies in Greece, the Greek public and, of course, European funding, the European Fund, so that Greece also has a leading role in producing this fuel-friendly fuel, a fuel that may also be the fuel for the future. I'm not that special, I always carry what I hear. When we went to Brussels on our first trip with Nikos Papathanase, even before COVID, at the beginning of our government term, we were looking and we were looking to see what we received from the previous government. We are suddenly aware that there is a committee of countries participating in the joint European strategic projects. These are called IPPCIS in the European language. And then we realize there's a team for the IPCIS of batteries and hydrogen. They're together because they're for the energy. We're talking about going to this group too. But they say 'you're not on the team'. We say, "Why, you guys? Greece wants to make renewable energy, we have solar energy, wind power, we want to attract batteries investments, we want to make hydrogen, we do not have European money to do all of this, like others.” And they tell us "but, Greece never applied to participate in these projects, never applied at all". They sent e-mails to the SYRIZA ministers from the European Commission and did not receive an answer, nor yes or no. We got slashed. We asked the procedure, we submitted a late request, but we were at risk - I mean, of the regulation - a country saying 'I do not accept Greece entering'. Because the more countries enter the less money they live for others. The pigeon doesn't grow because it's entering another country. Eventually, we were persuasive and put on us and today it is Greece where SYRIZA had managed to exclude us, not to be. These are the economists who then come to the House and tell us why we don't look at hydrogen. I say this particularly to the Members of the New Democracy, in order to understand what this government has done and how much it has done, so that Greece can now, from where two and a half years ago it has been black sheep, become an example for imitation, for example for economic development, for investment and for investment, but also an example for the fight against climate change and for the improvement of the environment, which is the bet on the future of humanity. And on this again, small Greece is starring and we are proud of it! That is why I call on the Members of the New Democracy and all the Members of the Chamber - without much expectations, as we all know, how much populism exists here - to vote in favour of this draft law, which will give us the tools, these unprecedented resources we have gathered and the great subsidies we have received from Brussels to allow us to invest in the region, to use them quickly, with the smallest possible bureaucracy, to start implementing the master plan in 2022, not to lose one day from the implementation of the project and to give the inhabitants of western Macedonia, Greater Town, the islands and all of Greece a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u162	And we thank the Minister. Because some people have protested about the time, I am looking at the times everyone has spoken, and I must say that the Minister will not speak in my own judgment. Is that right? After all, does the Minister - to tell you - have a second language that he has - and many of you are taking it - not least have the same rights?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u164	Mrs. Perka, you don't have the floor. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, the Greek amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u166	For the amendment!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u167	What amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u168	At first it began, it presented the amendment and said that it accepted questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u169	If it is on the amendment, then take the floor. I thought you wanted something on the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u170	Alas! As far as the speech is concerned, Minister, I hope you will listen to me at night, I will answer one by one. What is now happening with the Greek - for which, I want you to believe me, we have actually spit blood to go letter-writing, to become the KYA, not fall, to get congratulations from the S.H.E.L.D. . for this job - it is a matter of continuous amendments, last-minute amendments and without consultation. I haven't really had time to see them because we had the bill. However, I have been struck by a few things and I would like an answer. We cannot abolish everything, Minister, for the sake of investment. We are wrong on the other investors to whom we are setting limits and conditions. Think about that, too. It can't be done! Should some buildings be considered demolished, but in the meantime we will see them again and not be demolished?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u171	If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u172	I read this, that someone who exists and sees them will be considered to have been demolished, but if we change our minds, we can see them again that they are there. There's an overrun in the Metropolitan. Of course it concerns roofs and pillars, but it should also have an upper limit. Infinity? I don't know! I was surprised. Work and illegal fences approved as a whole throughout the area. I don't understand that. Is there going to be a group leave for everything? But there are different features and uses. Well, the uses for lignite concentrations change. Relocate and remove temporal building lines and redevelop public and public utilities. How come? You see, my question is a little rhetorical, because I want investments to be made, which we have said. We want conditions and rules that are equal to everyone, because investment is always at risk of such intervention. It's not an amendment. It reminds us of times when everything was done with amendments and laws. We have tools now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u173	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u174	Wait a minute, Minister. I would like to say something in addition to the previous answer. The Minister, in addition to his normal speech, was placed with his speech a moment ago on both of his amendments. In particular, it has been placed - and I say it about the Minutes - on the amendment, with a general number of 1163 and a special 97, and on the amendment, with a general number of 1167 and a specific 101. It also accepted all the ministerial amendments, and Mr Hatzidakis is also expected to explain on the amendment with a general number of 1164 and a special 98. That's all I need to explain about time. Because, as you can see, you also took two and a half minutes to ask for an amendment. In other words, we must not complain about time, at least of me trying to be as fair as possible. Mr Minister, you now have the floor to answer what my colleague said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u175	Mrs Perkas, the Greek - and you know that what I am saying now is not ironically - is your work, and SYRIZA in the whole. I repeat that for me the Greek is a symbol of three different governments. The Samara governments - Venizelos at the starting point, Tsipras at the core and Mitsotakis at the end, but also some people we worked on this project. I'm obviously one of them, but you are. So, between you and me, we can have a normal conversation. What is the problem with this investment and there are likely to be many other amendments along the way? It is impossible with a law to predict what is going on, because it is a very large project and extremely complex one. You say, for example, about the changes in public spaces and Mr. Famelos was immediately thrown away. This time it was indeed thrown out for public spaces. Excuse me, but don't you know that what we're going to do is to apply the master plan issued in the presidential decree on SYRIZA on land? We have a presidential decree that has approved a master plan. To apply now from the theory, from the master plan to the ground, will there not be any change in land uses and in rhymotomy to the ground? How's it going to happen? But how will it fit? Will the land uses of the airport remain the same as the master plan of the Greek?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u176	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u177	I am trying to explain that here we are going to solve a problem due to the size that we have never seen before as a state to date, because we have never had a urban renewal of this size before. As you certainly understand, we have to get permissions for thousands of things, from the smallest to the biggest. That's what we're trying to do. The services have made the amendments when problems are raised and they bring us how we can solve these problems in order to achieve our common goal and to complete the work within the timeframe, which you too want to finish, because you have voted for them. While you voted for it at times with our support for the opposition and now with you. These amendments are technical. Now, as to whether the buildings are going, we're talking about the loose ends and the roofs, up to infinity, I don't think they're going to infinite. After all, you know that's what's going on in the DAC. There all the public services will come and give an opinion on each building separately and on where to get it. In order for the IPCC to decide that it should also have the legal basis. This legal basis is now being given here. I would ask you to vote on the amendment. You see it is an amendment of a technical nature to speed up authorisations and works in Greek, which we both want to finish. In conclusion, I would also like to say why I am going to leave now in three minutes. I have to go to TIADED, Mr President, where we now sign the final repayment to TIADED in Afantos by Mr Angeliadis and the official start of the major investment in Rhodes, Afantou. If you remember, ladies and gentlemen, this has been another matter that has been pending for many years since Samaras, and that has been over by the Ministry of Development and Investment and is on its way and on its way. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] None of the investments we found in the past has been left in the drawers. Everyone's started.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u178	Mr Karathanasopoulos is now speaking as a parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. The big question is why now this option, which, of course, is not only an option for the Government of New Democracy but also for the previous government. Why now is this strategic choice of the European Union for the green transition? You claim you do all of this to protect the environment. Did the pain really catch you for the environment? Who are you kidding? The environment, as you know very well, Minister, and do not hide behind your finger, is the pretext. And it is the pretext precisely, because capitalism makes wars, capitalism murders people, capitalism robs rich production sources. Will the environment be respected? Is this thing ever possible? So it is not the environment and its protection. That's the pretext. However, in order not only to remain in general terms, to see the contradictions and irrationality of the European Union's government policies and policies. How does environmental protection go hand in hand with the incineration of waste? Is the incineration of waste environmentally friendly? Is environmentally friendly landfills to bury asbestos? Is it true that environmentally friendly and protects the environment by deforestation of mountain tumors, forests with the unregulated placement of wind parks? Is it really compatible with environmental protection that the systematic, persistent and criminal refusal of all governments to take measures of integrated anti-military and anti-nuclear protection planning? Really, do you people who are cut for the environment go hand in hand with the environment? Not at all! So since it is not environmental protection, what is it then? The JRC is saying it clearly. This choice of the European Union, and not only, is the way out for overcompensated funds, on the one hand, to be able to invest in new areas of profitability - so the European Union's policy has started - to liberalise the electricity market, but also through the destruction of invested capital in networks, infrastructure, means of production, into conventional goods to be able to find a profitable way out of overcompensated capital. That is the need you are coming to legislate today. They are the needs of multinational and monopolistic groups. And that, Mr. Rapporteur of the New Democracy, is not conspiracy. It's just reality. Thirdly, you are talking about a fair transition. You're clinging to justice in all falls. Is there any experience, really? Of course, we say that there is experience, which answers how fair the transition is. This experience is nothing but the liberalisation of the electricity market. We have specific results and unambiguous elements: Firstly, did the liberalisation of the electricity market lead to a deterioration of the position of workers in the energy sector? Has it led to intensification of work? Has it led to overturns in industrial relations, contractors and contractors? Did it lead to the suppressive means of protecting their hygiene and safety? Minister, how many dead aeronautics have we mourned contractors in recent years? So here is what was the result of the liberalisation policy that all governments have served. Secondly, was it at the expense of satisfying the people's needs? Is the price of electricity either in our country or at a pan-European level? Comfortable levels. That is why we have had extensive energy poverty. Thirdly: was it at the expense of our country's national energy planning? Sure. Truth, is it, or is it not irrationalism - why are you talking about rationalizers! - substituting lignite, a domestic fossil fuel, with natural gas, which is an imported fossil fuel, resulting in - that is your infamous energy design - today the energy mixture for electricity production to consist of 50% of the gas burning, by about 30% of the wind and photovoltaics, 10% of lignite and hydroelectric? The hydroelectrics you take into account with lignite? Aren't they renewable sources? There, however, there are no plans for investment and interest in green energy predators. And finally a 10% of imports of electricity, i.e. 60% of our country's electricity needs, are covered by imports either of fossil fuel or of electricity. So here's your most famous energy design. And this is where the wave of accuracy is eating off people's households, professionals, self-employed, bio-opportunists. The wave of accuracy is neither a skirmish nor a natural phenomenon, but it is the result of the policy of liberalisation of electricity, the result of the launch of gas prices by playing and geopolitical games, is the result of the energy stock exchange that SYRIZA has shaped to involve our country in the single market for electricity at European Union level, is the end of the pollutants imposed by the European Union with the agreement of all governments. This is the result of the accuracy, which the folk are experiencing today. Secondly, the government - and the new Republic's rapporteur has said - says that lignite is inconsistent and injurious. Are you really saying? Are you serious about the fact that this is the case, that lignite is inconsistent and injurious? Who has made lignite inconsistent and injurious? The imposition of charges for polluting rights. As someone claims, who killed his father and seeks custody from the court orphan, so you load lignite at the end of pollutants and then say that lignite is expensive and inconsistent. These pollutant charges are no skies. Some people imposed them. They were imposed by the Greek governments within the European Union. Fourth rebalancing: In fact, PPC pays polluting charges because it is a business that causes problems in the environment. The cement industry, really, isn't that kind of business? The cement industries why have they been rid of the polluting charges in our country? Is that a rational choice? Is it based on scientific data? Oh, no. None of the scientific grounds cover this separation. On the contrary, the interests imposed on PPC to pay pollutant charges to be transferred directly to the people's layers, but also to move the European Union's choice to evacuate the EIA predators and at the same time to exempt the cement industry from paying pollutant charges. Fourthly, you say that this course of lignite is not now due to a fair transition and defoliation. This course has been followed since 2007. It's constantly decreasing participation. Is that a natural phenomenon? Is participation reduced by itself? Is it not a question of the choice of all governments to reduce lignite production to subsidise the RES to replace lignite with natural gas? In Megalopolis alone, did the natural gas station become? Wasn't that a government choice? It didn't happen on its own. You substituted lignite with natural gas. And now you're saying that lignite was being reduced in the energy mix? But you chose it. I mean, it could have been a different course. So you have charged through this conscious choice the production of lignite by charging him the various fees and on the other hand what have you done? You have generously subsidised the production of electricity from the predators of renewable energy sources to ensure their profitability. Fifth - I have lost the measure with your irrationalism - is this: the rapporteur of the New Democracy said that it is inappropriate to use new technology to reduce the impact of lignite on the use of lignite because it costs too much. Are you serious? Is it inconsistent? So let's put down the twelfths, see what's in the interest and what's inconsistent. Tell us - we have asked it on several occasions both in the current government and in the previous governments - how many billions of euros have been provided by governments for incentives to various wind and photovoltaic parks. Have you recorded the tens of billions of energy predators you gave? Oh, no. Have you recorded the tens of billions that you gave to subsidise the electricity price from PV and wind? How many billions of them are there? Have you recorded how many billions of dollars the people paid for the various fees on the electricity bill to be paid to the predators of electricity? So do the soum of all these tens of billions of all three categories, and come and talk about what is in the interest and what is inconsistent. This is how the debate is being held and not by irrationalism. So the defoliation plan for a fair transition is an intelligent one. In essence, a fair transition is made to serve the needs of business groups. You are financing the various investment projects, as you say, but also the path of liberation with EUR 7.5 billion. We won't deny the number. You provide increased investment incentives by 15% to 25%, i.e. 70% of all investment projects in the areas under ligniteification, so also in the Aegean islands. What does that mean? It means that you actually give them a free, free investment, while the overpricing that is done often put money in their pockets by investors, by the subsidies you give them. Therefore, it is not enough that you increase the subsidy of an investment to 70%, proceed to new tax exemptions for these investments, overdepreciation, digital technology and technology that goes hand in hand with the cyclical economy. You're subsidising the job. It is not only, as you say, an increased subsidy for wages and insurance contributions for those who work full-time - not only do this - but you also come to give free employees in that region. Is it, or isn't it, Minister? Don't you give free workers? Why is the 100% subsidy for wages and insurance contributions for young people from eighteen to twenty-nine years old, in the name of gaining work experience? It is for free work that you, of course, do not pay for it, that the Greek people pay it from their taxes and that you offer free workers to the so-called investors. Provide specific spatial and town planning plans, tailored to the needs of investors. So it is obvious that of what I mentioned before, who wins. It is precisely the capitalists who will take advantage of these over-generative incentives that you have given them, to literally launch their profits, their profitability. And who's paying? The people pay for it because it is the people who will be called upon to pay, through their taxes, all these subsidies and benefits, the various packages. Are the workers missing? Of course, the workers will lose, because the jobs created are poorly paid jobs. Why? Because there is the working regime, which you have shaped, New Democracy - SYRIZA. A job jungle regime you have shaped. Is this for the benefit of workers or not? It's at the expense of the workers. Of course, all of this reproduces a very accurate, green energy for the people, increasing further energy poverty. Minister, you have, I believe, followed the debate that is developing in the circles of the European Union, that what they are facing today is the risk of launching the prices of wind turbines and photovoltaics. Why will the prices of wind turbines and photovoltaics be launched? It is precisely because there is a huge demand in the name of the green transition. Secondly, because these are all made through mineral materials, rare earths, which are not inexhaustible, so they expel costs. They are made from other minerals, which are simply invoiced on international stock exchanges, on world stock exchanges. So all this leads to a launch of the price and the panels and the photovoltaics to do this. So it's going to launch even more of the price of electricity. Answer us another question, Minister. Really, how environmentally friendly is this overexploration of rare earths and minerals, which are essential for the construction of photovoltaics and wind turbines? Are these things protecting the environment? Or how environmentally friendly is it that you don't even know how to manage the millions of tons that will arise from the PV and wind turbines when their life period has expired? Where are you going to get all this? What are you going to do with all this waste that'll end their period of life? Is there an environmentally friendly answer? Because you're so cut for the environment! In conclusion, therefore, it is a class choice that serves the needs of business groups and in the name of these needs sacrifices the satisfaction of the people's needs. And so the opposition of the other parties is, in essence, unstable. They don't say "knock" for the motives, scandalous motives, the anti-government motives you provide as government. They didn't say a word, instead of pushing you to give more incentives, SYRIZA and the Change Movement, to investors to ensure their investments. And their counter-population is bad, because it is precisely in line with the strategic choice of the capital for the green transition. And to what are they criticizing you? You didn't do, he says, an extensive consultation. In other words, you can convince people to accept these dangerous plans you have. In other words, the rest of you who criticise you for not making open and wide consultation want to make, make the people accomplice to the crime you are planning at the expense of your environment and your needs. Really, who make fun of some parties, that the electricity needs will be met, putting lamps on the roofs of the houses? Who are seriously claiming this thing? That if I put bulbs on the roof of the house, photovoltaic, I will meet the current needs and will be a viable household and the institution "leasure household" will be upgraded. Aren't you ashamed to claim such things, that through energy communities there will be energy democracy, in a system that gives rise to authoritarianism, persecution and wars? Just all this is an alibi to cover up capitalist crimes. Cover the very capitalism that destroys the environment that destroys the labour force that destroys the satisfaction of human needs. So we are clearly saying that outlet is the socialisation of all the sources of electricity production, of all the companies, networks and machinery that produce electricity, of the use of all forms - without distinction - of electricity production and of the scientific design of which will be exploited by all these sources, ensuring that: first, energy adequacy in our country. Second, cheap current for the people. Thirdly, cheap current for our country's productive needs. And fourthly, it should also give the possibility for electricity exports. Only socialism can ensure all this. In general, we insist that only socialism is the people's response to the modern challenges of our time. That is why we are voting against this bill as a whole, without a second debate. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is not here, of course, but I kept his nomadic phrase from his 30-minute speech, that in this Chamber populism, Mr Deputy Minister, dominates. I wonder, was it me or any of the opposition colleagues who said in July 2019 to this Step that the Greek project begins by the end of the year? Was any opposition colleague who said that Greece is a country where investment is increased, but the bill that has been passed two years ago has not been completed with ministerial decisions? Was I or another speaker who said that investment is the country's strongest and foreign direct investment is 0.7% in the European Union? It was me or was Mr Georgiadis who said in May 2020 that it rained billions. for professionals from TEIX 2, the Guarantee Fund, when 95% was excluded? Was it me, or was it the same person who said that we don't give money to the batters - the ones they owed, Minister - to give them the deposit after the returnable advance? Was it me or someone else from the opposition, or is Mr. Georgiadis, who in total constantly saying things which, both in time and as a target, are not being implemented? Are we the opposition or the government that celebrates the digital transition and are we all, but all the indicators of all the agencies, in the last positions at European level? Were we or you talking about rapid absorption of the recovery fund and the first dose being delayed and going for 2022? Are we or you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, those who speak of a credible and strong economy and just a statement from Mrs Lagard about the end of the bond exchange programme, eject the spreads into one day and postpone the ratings from the rating houses, to the trustworthy otherwise, Greek economy, as you say? So, when we talk about populism in this Chamber, everyone should first make their self-criticism about what he says in a lymph and about what is not done in practice. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And I say this because in his attempt to provoke once again a confrontation with Civicism, namely to restore the dilemma between New Democracy and SYRIZA, the answer was essentially given and given to the process in the Change Movement in progress these days. Because the dilemma cannot be Mitsotakis or Tsipras, it cannot be either SYRIZA or New Democracy. Greek citizens certainly deserve much better. Now that the Democratic Order comes forward, against the government's improvisations on the one hand and against SYRIZA's lack of opposition on the other hand, we will speak again in the heart, in the soul, but above all in the logic of the Greek citizen. And we will have a real opposition, a opposition that the country needs, with elements, with corners. Mostly, however, a convincing opposition with documentation. Let us, for example, take the bill we are debating today on defoliation, because both the SYRIZA government and the current one have dealt with the energy transition. The previous government has dealt superficially with this crucial issue, moving to a new greener energy model and has rightly been deplored by the citizens. But, for two and a half years, we have another government, the Mitsotakis government. And by faithfully following the practice of its predecessors and this government, it is confined to improvisations and great communication narratives, that they are very pro-environmental government, with green concerns and the will of substantial changes. It is a government that clearly set maximistic targets from the outset, putting the block of lignite into the mix of energy fuels in 2030, when other countries technologically more advanced, such as Germany, set a time limit in 2040 - Germany, which, notable, still has an increased use of lignite in the mixture of energy fuels and should reasonably accelerate the process in question. But, no, the Minister said it today - he said it emphatically - that he wants our country to set an example of this type of international procedure. In this way, however, it does not mean that what the government says is done. It's just that the government's bruising and falsifying people that it's starting, that's why it says it's putting the bar on the energy transition so high. The point is, however, that it is doing so with a project without really - no matter how much it bothers you - the beginning, the middle and the end, without proper consultation with the local communities. This was also seen in the hearing of bodies. You may well blame the self-government, the elected mayors, the mayors, all those who disagreed, that they are doing so for voters' reasons and for populism, as the Minister said today, but that does not deny that there are representatives of societies who disagree. Because societies are called upon to consent to a future in which they have no real reason. And since the question of resurgences and increases in relation to the bill we are discussing has been mentioned, the government has again found the opportunity to say that it has given solutions to this. In fact, part of this solution as a whole is today's amendment concerning industrial and professional units. The reassurances of the co-legislative ministers can only last a short time for them to be heard comfortably, but the reality is completely different. First of all, very high energy prices are not a temporary phenomenon, but they will also last in 2022. Secondly, all the government's estimates - all from September to today - of the price of energy on the one hand and the rate of subsidy on the other, have fallen out. Thirdly, we are concerned about the fact that the institutions are giving a strong response to horizontal support measures which the government very easily promises and because it is almost certain that when it enters 2022 or at least we hope that the government will prolong this aid, the partners will demand that this be done, but for specific categories of citizens and specific criteria, which means that a number of our fellow citizens and professionals and households will be excluded from the subsidies and all the costs of the revaluations will be borne by them. Ladies and gentlemen, I said beforehand that the government has put the block of liberation very high in 2030 without having done anything about the prerequisites for the energy transition to clean forms of production. And I am referring first of all to the fact that electricity production in Greece is based on lignite and basically on lignite plants. When it was set as a target for 2030, what was the programming for the new giant investments that will be needed in renewable energy sources and energy storage infrastructure in order to be adequate and adequate? The answer is clear. There was no planning or plan. You have now loaded it all on the Recovery Fund, with the difference that with the pressing timetable you have put in, except that it is impossible, you are giving all the jobs to foreign companies that have know-how, but also the raw materials. What does that just mean? It means that the trade balance and trade balance will deteriorate even further, since there will be imports that will increase from other countries. And that is clear that it will have budgetary implications and the cost will also be paid by the economy, but also by Greek citizens. Second weak point. Energy transition requires qualified knowledge and human resources with special skills. Has there been any preparation for the relevant reform of the levels of education, either at universities or in technological education, in the direction of creating new qualifications and cognitive fields? The answer here, unfortunately, is no. Has there been an integrated programme or a training plan in new green energy production technologies for workers in lignite plants? Because if there were such a plan or programme, it should already have been activated, since you set the goal of shutting down the lignite plants by 2030. We, therefore, because we are talking about concrete proposals and because we see the reality and we do not just want to say good words to impress, we think that you should review the time limits and time objectives of the energy transition. The time objectives must be realistic, leading to the achievement of the main objective we agree on, but in order that there is a smooth transition to addressing both the wave of fuel and energy price rises. At the same time, a more realistic timetable would enable us to move forward with changes in the area of education, which is needed and which have not been done almost anything, but also to allow the creation of Greek productive units, in order to build here the materials and infrastructure needed for renewable energy sources and not to have to import from outside at high cost, as with your own choices, and this will be stepping up in the next period. I would like to stress that a reassessment of a realistic timetable - I say again, a realistic and feasible timetable - does not mean under any circumstances that the Change Movement is not clearly in favour of clean forms of energy. I stress this to be clear and comprehensible. But we point out the risks both from the improvisations of the government and from the lack of a concrete plan that is realistic and practicable in the next few years. On the question of dealing with the consequences of regions such as western Macedonia and Megalopolis, and on this issue the government is attempting a violent transformation, without counting on people, without giving the necessary supplies to the local society. The Prime Minister went to Kosani, spoke in general and vaguely of 7 billion from public and private resources, without a plan, with generic and wishfulness that everything will be done quickly, easily and without any cost. But this is where we need to speak with concrete evidence. Two years ago the West Macedonian Region was the first in Greece with a rate of unemployment of 27% in its entire economic working population. Imagine what will happen now through a violent transition. In fact, the unemployment rate of the young ages 15 to twenty-four is the third highest among European regions with 62%. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the closure of lignite plants without compensatory measures, essentially and directly applicable, will increase the unemployment rate vertically and will affect to the greatest extent other sectors of the economy and employment in western Macedonia, which are related to each other. I understand that that will also be the consequences of the Megalopolis. In addition, the mayor of Megalopoli in committee, at the hearing of bodies, expressed justified concerns. He even said: "Do not make Megalopolis a black hole in the country's productive map." Obviously, he is not convinced of the assurances of the government and the relevant ministers. Here, then, it is clear that a holistic plan is needed, a project which, unfortunately, the government does not have, on a lines such as: Development Act with sufficient resources and high subsidy rates for the development of business activity in the region of western Macedonia, but also in the Megalopolis region, with emphasis on the grant of new innovative investments, the primary sector enterprises and the processing of agricultural products. Timetable for the restoration of land used by lignite plants to be attributed to the citizens for agricultural and livestock use, for the development of a primary sector, as well as for the creation of infrastructures to reduce total production costs. Development of alternative forms of tourism, such as winter tourism or rural tourism, which fit both in a green region. Overall restoration of PPC's mines and facilities to be exploited with benefit and added value for local society. Upgrade university institutions in both western Macedonia and the Peloponnese, which should be interconnected with the new development model. To become universities of green development, as well as of primary agri-foodstuffs. This is, I think, an important part that is missing from today's bill. Feasibility-sharing and skills-building programmes to address, even on a temporary basis, unemployment in the region and to create the real conditions for the smooth integration of workers into the new development model. Finally, substantial support for energy communities. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, the government must speak much more specifically and much more targetedly. The question is whether he can do it, especially, if he has the will to do it. The government will have to stop seeing the finger shown by the Antipopulation, calling us all conceived and tax-free "lignite hymns" and see what this finger shows. Any reform, any developmental or energy leap, if not based on consultation, consensus and acceptance of local society, can have no future. Local societies are rightly afraid of what will happen to them, without them, which is why we are also rightly concerned about your real intentions, but also about the effectiveness that, unfortunately, is lacking in your daily practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too, Mr. Catarini. The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us, those who do not live in Ptolemais, those who do not live in Megalopolis, have a great debt towards these poor societies, because poor societies are Ptolemais and Megalopolis. They have been abused for decades now for national good. The truth is that Greece was a poor country, poor in terms of energy resources, but in total, all together, all of us and all, abused these areas through the extraction and burning of lignite for so many decades. Their land has been exonerated. People who lived for generations whole in harmony with nature with agriculture, with their livestock farming, ridden them as a state, as a state of Greeks and Greeks, we expropriated their fields and, indeed, at prices that were particularly negative for those people at that time in relation to the income they had from agricultural and livestock production. We must not forget that because we all have a debt together. We have expropriated their land, their water, and we have expropriated the people, we have turned them into newcomers who joined into the factories and mines of PPC. We have alienated them from their environment, all in return - what - to secure a job. They told their children: "Go to school to finish, you'll have a place in PPC", a toxic monoculture, which was done for national reasons, which we admit, but we're the National Representation here in the House, we have to recognize this debt that we have over time and cross-borderly against the people of Ptolemaida, against the people of Megalopolis. We leave behind and burnt lives with high cancer rates due to the burning of lignite, especially to our people working in the mines in the mining of lignite. Some kind of domestic abuse is what we've done in these areas. And after we abused their land, their water, their air, these communities for so many decades, now we come and press a button and throw them in the trash. We therefore have a responsibility, and we have a debt, to restore three things: the land and water that we have been poisoning so many decades on the one hand, the restoration of people and, thirdly, the restoration of the sustainability of the communities of these people. What do we have to leave behind in the next five or ten years in Ptolemais and Megalopolis? We have a duty to leave behind fertile land, clean water, fresh air, no, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to go to the poisoned land and put photovoltaic parks above. The earth must be fertile again, the water must be cleaned up again, the air must become clean again. The photovoltaics, yes, on the rooftops in Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, Heraklion of Crete on the rooftops, not on the land we need to deliver restored, fertile to the people of Ptolemaida, to the people of Megalopolis. As far as people are concerned, the restoration of people, ladies and gentlemen, are we aware of what we are doing with liberation? We do well and do deprivation, but nevertheless, we pressed a button and stopped the economy of these regions. It is the equivalent of going to Crete today and pressing the button to stop tourism. That's not what I'm saying, I'm not suggesting you do it. It's an intellectual experiment. Please don't do it. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] But when we pressed the button to stop tourism, to stop economic life because of COVID, because of the pandemic, the government, by copying other governments, you have rightly created the COVID model. You practically kept business alive through returnees... Well-badly, you girls did it wrong, but by the supply of the pentacosari. There was a model of COVID, which we can apply in the case of Ptolemais and Megalopolis in a transitional period not to close these societies financially when we pressed the button to stop lignite. We did well and pressed the button to stop the lignite. However, we need to implement what we have implemented when we closed tourism so that these societies don't close. Finally, restoring the sustainability of communities, sustainable communities: All these decades with lignite dependency on this toxic monoculture was toxic to people's lives, but also to the sustainability of these communities. It's the proof of what's happening now. We are deciding and want no longer lignite, and these societies are in danger of turning, as we have heard, black holes into black holes. That's why the state has to find a model not dependent on a monoculture, not dependent on something toxic, which will sometime end. Another principle we are called upon as a state, if we really are interested in restoring these abused areas, another principle that we need to think about is the principle that we should impose nothing on these societies now that we would not be prepared to see growing around us in our neighborhood. What the ladies and gentlemen of the northern suburbs have lived in all these decades with lignite, you would not want to have it next door. Today that we are moving on to the new phase with ligniteification, we do not have the right to plant in the land of Ptolemais, in the land of Megalopolis, things that we would not want in Ekali, in the Old Psychic, in Vuliagmeni and in the Old Faliro. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Reading your bill, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in fact before we even read it, when we saw the process that you started, if possible, Minister, for such an important debt of decades, this "spray-stop-stop-legislative", bring the bill on Friday, put it to the committees on Monday and Thursday you are voting on it. Is that a way to treat people out there? There is a consultation procedure. There should be. You should take the view. This bill should have become an estate of society to restore the areas that we have all been hit together as a state over time. Only by the speed at which you legislate, it seems what your intention is. The new abuse of the already malicious areas is your intention, new dependencies of new toxic processes productive, fake production is what you want to do. You are talking in the bill: You will create - says - a special service of fair development. You've taken George Orwell and made him your god. The reversal of the meaning of words now. It is neither fair what your bill describes nor a development plan nor has anything to do with any transition. What is the essence of your bill if you are asked by someone to whom you have no reason to lie, contrary to us and the Greek people? With what will you replace lignite, ladies and gentlemen of the government? The answer you know who it is? It's simple: we'll send them our garbage there for burning. That's your answer. We will send them our garbage from Kalis, from the Old Psychic, from Vouliagmeni, from Athens, Thessaloniki. We'll send them to burn. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] To the people we're treating like garbage, we're sending them our garbage. That's your essence. You're not hiding that you're going to burn garbage. This is the reality behind the original SRF soup, RDF, Recovered Fuel etc. This is primitive combustion. That's what you're gonna do. You're not the only ones. This is happening elsewhere in the European Union, because the green washing machine, which actually wraps up in a false green wrapping up a black food process, is also being applied elsewhere, as in Barcelona. Our companions, movements that interconnect with Mera25, have a long tradition of opposing this burning RDF by "LAFARGE", as is the case with Volos. You don't even interconnect cement production with the burning of garbage. Go set up new garbage burning chips where there is not even a cement industry in the Ptolemais and Megalopolis area. You'll bring in new cancers. There were lignite cancers, you are now bringing new forms of cancer. Because you know very well that the so-called RDF, Refuse Derived Fuel, is never clean of plastic. Go to any HOTA to see how the separation is made for these pedlets, which will be sent for RDF. Grab it in your hands and tell me if it's not the most plastic part. Plastics you'll burn in Ptolemais, plastics you'll burn in Megalopolis. Convince me that it is not by building such a burning plant for these RDFs in Akali, Builiagmeni, in Paleo Faliro. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] And it is not just that the region of Ptolemais and Megalopolis is being environmentally affected. The whole of Greece is affected not only because these gases are dispersed without restrictions and without discrimination, it is not just that. It is also the fact that, by creating this process essentially postmodern waste incineration, you are removing the incentives from municipalities across the country of real recycling and the actual reduction in waste we produce. This will be the largest cost in the country over and above the cost for Ptolemais and Megalopolis over time. If we think about it, from the 1950s, we had PPC, a public company of all Helladic, as it should have been, correctly built by Constantine Karamanlis, public, pan-Hellenic, holistic to include both production and distribution, which in Ptolemais and Megalopolis actually bought the land and absorbed both nature and people within the belly of Ptolemais. And then we come with the neoliberal turn of capitalism and the privatization of PPC begins, the abolition of this holistic system by both your own governments and SYRIZA with the division of PPC, with its gradual privatization. On the one hand, one impact is seen in electricity accounts. Think about this: Be a man who lives in Ptolemais, who lives in Megalopolis and at the same time press the button, turn off the specifications, send them the garbage to burn there and raise it the price of the electricity. What's worse for you in a community than that? The increase in electricity prices is very important to discuss. I do not want to waste time on this because I want to stay on rehabilitation issues, but I cannot do so. Repeatedly I have said from this Step, our MPs have said so, Merra25 has done so all the time, abolish this swallow, unorthodox energy stock exchange, abolish marginal pricing, invoicing according to marginal cost rather than the average cost. I hear that Prime Minister went to the European Union and suggested abolishing the marginal cost and collecting a huge Nein, as he collected when the Eurobond was asked with President McCron. This demonstrates our position that only with the break with the European Union in these things, which are disastrous for Europe, for the peoples of Europe, for the environment of Europe, can the changes necessary in this place be made, but also in Europe as a whole. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] The public electricity company, which could, if it had remained integrated and not fragmented, be a lever for the real green transition of Ptolemais, Megalopolis, within a holistic plan of a real green transition to renewable energy sources, all of which are part of Greece. But there isn't that, you dismantled it. In the position of what was once the holistic public electricity company brought a speculation cartel, which, in the name of the green transition, abuses and poisons both the regions, such as Ptolemais and Megalopolis, as well as the country in general. And I come now because we in Mera25 are never just standing in criticism, in a specific proposal of three points about what should be done to restore it. The first part I've already said, but I'll say it one more time. In the medium term, not to leave those left in Ptolemais and Megalopolis, model COVID lockdown. Because lockdown is what's happening now. When you close the industry that is actually running lockdown, shutdown, close, quarantine in the area. At least use the tools you have developed in the context of the pandemic to support those businesses that have been left out there, those who have been unemployed as if they had been closed in their home with the government's lockdown, because that was practically what happened. Secondly, legislate that there can never be a new form of factory production of anything in Ptolemais and Megalopolis that would not exist in Attica, there would never be in the north suburbs. And thirdly - and most importantly - to stop the dependence of these societies, these communities from toxic procedures with expiry date, implementation of a multi-culture programme, and I will give you an example. You're talking about photovoltaics, I imagine. We'll bring it all out, which you'll get, and it says, from the outside, you'll buy it from Germany, from China, and you'll put it on the agricultural land, which you won't restore. We say that the land should be restored and created through partnerships with foreign photovoltaic plants in Ptolemais. Not to be placed in the dirt of Ptolemais, but to be placed on the roofs of the houses of Athens and Thessaloniki. For green hydrogen, small and medium-sized enterprises where they will be subsidised by the Recovery Fund for green hydrogen production in the region. The area should become a global example of the restoration of mines and land with companies that either produce photovoltaics, produce green hydrogen technologies, or engage in the restoration of the area’s land and water will be participatory to the inhabitants of the region. We are talking about an energy participatory democracy not only for energy communities, but also for communities that are part-owners of the new corporate forms, which, with public subsidies, are created in these areas. I pledge that in January 25 will be in Kosani to present a specific regional development programme for these regions. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing today, instead of a way of fulfilling our debt in these poor areas, have you brought a pheasant black bill into green wrapping, which basically what closes the eye and tells each other - the MPs you are going to vote for - is ‘This is where we killed them so many decades with lignite in the SRF will we stick? Especially when our friends who will have these companies that will produce electricity by burning garbage have so much money to make." In gambling, cementation, debt and funds, which is the main economic model of "Metsotakis S.A.", today you also come to add the burning of garbage. You're a model of growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Socrates Famelos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, at a difficult time in the Greek society affected by the pandemic, the fact is that uncertainty is multiplying. And uncertainty for too many reasons is also multiplied by the policies of the Mitsotakis Government. This bill comes to add, if you wish, to the great demands and to the great searches, when we have the pandemic, a very extreme wave of accuracy, but also the dangers of climate crisis, since our society is intact with these problems. Today, unfortunately, because of the pandemic, we mourn almost a hundred dead every day. Unfortunately, we have had a very large print negative all along in November and it seems that this will continue for several weeks by a government, but that does not listen to the scientists, who manages the pandemic wrongly and politically. There are unanswered questions: Why did the government refuse to adequately strengthen the National Health System? Why are we going to postpone surgery and interventions from hospitals and a one-thematic ESS? Why doesn't he demand private clinics? Why did he fail to convince society of the need for vaccination? The reality is that it is unacceptable today that the debate in Greece should be held on serious diseases that are outside the intensive care unit, that, unfortunately, we have seven hundred people on the intact list and certainly fifty out of intensive care units. And unfortunately, it is unacceptable that our country should be in the worst position, almost twice as much as Europe's average and we should mourn every day absenteeism, the daily victims of the pandemic. The citizens in this great crisis are alone and, indeed, you blame them, because we are talking about individual responsibility, because the state is missing. You do this because you want to hide your own responsibility, the same responsibility you have for the other problems, such as the question of accuracy and the crisis in energy, because at a very difficult time with many constraints households are living in an extreme crisis of accuracy. Accounts coming which cannot be paid by households. And you know, the most tragic thing is that you've lied about all this. Mr Mitsotakis in the report spoke of at least 80% coverage of the rises in all consumers. Really, EUR 9, 18 or 39 correspond to 80% of the increase? We are presently setting examples to prove the exact opposite. First example, household in Thessaloniki: consumption 16/10 to 18/11, current 56 euros, adjustment 161 euros. Secondly, an account also from Thessaloniki: a current of EUR 227, an adjustment of EUR 211. Thirdly, bakery in Athens: a current of EUR 770, a charge of EUR 1186. Fourth, manabic in Agios Dimitrios: a current of EUR 1865, a charge of EUR 1237. And you want to talk a little bit about the district of the Minister of Energy? Agricultural current in Thessaly, four-month consumption: current - hold - 3947 euros, charge 7603 euros. It is additional EUR 2000 per month for farmers. It is obvious that farmers are now talking about electroshock in Thessaly newspapers. Against this precision rally, the government tells us it's an international crisis. How is this an international crisis? Why then was Greece first in November in wholesale trade? Why was it first and in August in wholesale trade? Why did Mr Mitsotakis choose to increase PPC's accounts in September 2019? Why did PPC make a stubborn profit in 2020, when it was selling four times the retail from wholesale? Why did the former Minister for the Environment, George Hatzidakis, say that competition will solve the problems, but ultimately on the balance market in the first month, 100 million people have lost? The cost of balancing the Greek market is much greater than Europe. And that's not all SYRIZA says. The industrialists say so too, and consumers say so too. And what's the problem? Because we're listening to Mera25's questions. So let's answer. The Greek market is without regulation and without control. And that's what SYRIZA wants. Furthermore, it is oligopolistic, because the government has abolished the pluralism of the energy communities that SYRIZA legislated. In addition, the market does not have long-term contracts. He doesn't have any forward contract, which is the basis of security. And that is what SYRIZA legislated and is not being implemented today. And let us compare: In 2015-19 there was not a single euro increase in accounts. On the contrary, there was a decrease in the average cost of 12% and we maintained control over the energy operators in the country. And that is what the SYRIZA Constitution is proposing, which we now invite you to judge, because that is our position. Public control on both water networks and energy companies. But because we know that the problem is not the left debate, but that Mr Mitsotakis is today, let us come back. Where is the energy market today? I agree, Mr President: EUR150 million per month is paid by the Greek industry because of Mr Mitsotakis and the Regulatory Authority, the Competition Committee is deaf. They answer in writing to our questions that they are now going to have a working party. While the market is literally burning, the government sells out and sells out the property of the country, the property of the Greek citizens and the energy tools: the DEDEFOP, the administration of the "Greek Petroleum". And what is, really, the valuation of the new model? The figures we have said about a differentiated cost, that is, greater than Europe, than the target model, EUR 400 million in one year. And while the European Commission is officially coming - and we are tabling this too, Mr President - to tell us in the monitoring report that electricity prices in Greece are above Europe's average for households, that Greece is exposed to natural gas, and that is why we have the wave of precision, that households 8.5% above Europe's average and cannot warm up in sufficient amount, the government tells us that other factors are to blame outside it. We are therefore tabling the document that the European institutions are saying that it is the government's fault, because the accounts that come to Greece to all consumers have a signature: Mrs Mitsotakis. This deadlock, unfortunately, also applies to the lignite regions and is clearly linked to energy costs. Don't listen to what Mr. Georgiadis says. Why? But because the Mitsotakis degreasing plan was a plan to create private gas power plants. In other words, the lignites should be closed, not to enter renewable energy sources - which the Mitsotakis Government has also created a short-circuit with the Hatzidakis Act - but to have private plants with imported fuel, that is, without security, at an energy cost because it is mineral and indeed expensive. Let's see a little what happened in the last twenty-seven months in western Macedonia. What happened in Megalopolis? All that happened because of the government is unemployment cards, thousands of unemployment cards. In other words, all over Greece and the current accounts and unemployment cards in the lignite regions have a signature: Kyriakos Mitsotakis-Nea Republic. And that's real, because all the rest are promises and announcements. What are you responding to the concern about the timetable of liberation - all mayors put it in - that doesn't come out? What do you say you said at the beginning of 2028, 2023, then 2025, then again 2028? Can't you even keep this? Mr Hatzidakis in September 2020 - and I quote this, Mr President - had himself announced the closure of Megalopolis in writing at a press conference. And what finally happened? In 2021 he came back to Megalopolis, because we had a problem of adequacy. But didn't you say the lignite works on the full? Mr. Georgiadis said that here twice. We are therefore tabling a document from the IPTO which shows that in October, lignite was not working in full, but was working on natural gas in full. I am also tabling a document from Mr Screka telling us - and he told us at the press conference - that from gas we have a cost of EUR 150, while from lignite between EUR 110 and 115. Therefore, the Government neither deflation nor deprives it of its own right, nor at the cost of energy does something to the benefit of Greek citizens. This is the proof of your lack of energy strategy. And we are very afraid that there will be neither carbonisation nor extinction. We'll have a lot backwards. The problem is, however, that the damage caused to the Greek state will have already been done. And what's the damage? The puncture that is now evolving in the energy sector. In fact, individuals will come with natural gas power plants and then ask for reinforcement and support and the public will pay in western Macedonia and Megalopolis and for the second time the transition. Our rapporteur, Mrs Perkas, has presented them very thoroughly and the deficits in the two lignite regions, as well as the cost. So you sell silver, bind the gas and drive the Greek regions into poverty. And is that an environmental policy? Let's get this straight. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the European Union proposes that nuclear energy and gas should be classified in the European Union's classification, namely, the eligibility of investments. In Greece, it promotes the incineration of waste and, at the same time, scandals in recycling, because citizens and municipalities no longer have cans. It abolishes and breaks the design. It does so in this bill with various special photographic articles, and it has even lifted protection in the NATURA 2000 areas and we are now condemned by Europe in 2000 for the NATURA 2000 areas, and it shortens both the forest maps and the Land register. You can't even answer the elementary. They say the local bodies, we want participation, we want to know what is going to happen in our region. You didn't bring it, you'd bring it in law-makers. You told us today. In other words, you were sliding into a change, but just think about why the government did not propose the participation of local actors? First of all, because he has no respect for the needs of democracy and the local population. But why would he want behind closed doors, to continue awarding and contracts at continents and for these regions? In other words, in terms of poverty, anguish and unemployment in western Macedonia and Megalopolis, you want to do more deals with the friends of Maximos. This really is the situation, and I think the WWF told the committees at the hearing. Public prerogatives in the body provided by the government, which is in danger of becoming a prelude to opacity, maladministration and conflict of interest. That's what the government does with this bill. But let's get things straight. Degreeisation is necessary, but it is carbonisation necessary. You spent two years with nice words - it is a fact and possibly and a nice power point - to say at this time that you will start the debate on the governance system, while the citizens are already unemployed - and that is not done in SYRIZA. I will testify to you, because many lies have been heard by the ministers, unfortunately, that SYRIZA, not just went ahead - and I will also take my dennote, Mr President - but we have also tabled a question, signed by Mrs Perka and Mrs Vetta, on 27 September 2019, which we tell you in the period of governance until a proposal for a special directive has been made to the European Union and the first Fair Transition Fund, and that eventually led to the 'Coal Regulations in Transition' platform. This is how the World Bank came to Western Macedonia, so the studies started, on SYRIZA, and the first Fair Transfer Fund - and I will present it, Mr President - with an excess of the ATE account, which you had gone bankrupt in previous years. We have here two laws in 4585/2018, and at the same time we have 4569/2019 and the ministerial decision it contains - and I shall table them, Mr President - what exactly was planned to finance western Macedonia. And what happened? Unfortunately, Mr President, I will also table the call for funding that this government has received and take note of the dates. On 22 September 2021, he proclaimed a measure that writes in means that they are the resources of 2018. Were the resources secured by SYRIZA and you published them after two years? This is shameful for western Macedonia, this is shameful for Megalopolis. However, we have proposals and proposals that we have tabled in public. Alexis Tsipras was there with my colleagues from western Macedonia last week and he said it clearly. What's our difference? We believe in a state that will be strong and guarantee the transition for all citizens, so that no one will stay behind. You believe in a society and a state that will be weak for your best friends to make. The lignite regions and they can and must be models of fair development. And the state must give these regions, the gross product and the jobs that the coalmining process has to deprive them of. That is why we tabled the proposal of the zero growth and social deficit clause for western Macedonia and Megalopolis. What does that mean? Something you don't want. He wants public investment strong, he needs emergency income for those who need it. It wants support from all businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises in the region. Because entrepreneurship must also be supported and another entrepreneurship should be attracted and not just for some big people. It also wants spatial planning, which will take place for areas where new productive activities are installed, which cannot of course be done when university departments are closed down in western Macedonia. The new entrepreneurship must have incentives, but it must also have the criteria for jobs, the environmental footprint, the climateprint. That is why we proposed, firstly, the restoration of the land with new uses of land and the restoration of these lands to the local society, not through an opaque framework that is only likely to suit PPC, which you are now privatising, which is why you are even making its way on the sale, but also through the creation of a primary sector and of business positions, which will also be the municipalities in this management. Because we want a primary sector as well as a central role in the region and in self-government. Secondly, support for the unemployed and the fight against the threat of social exclusion. How's that gonna happen? We're suggesting it to you. With a freezing of debts to those who have invested and with an emergency income. The third axis is new investments with a special state aid scheme, because we all submitted SYRIZA Members, a special amendment to the special chapter in development law, and you did not vote for it and we were here. We therefore need a special development law and cover insurance and labour costs and incentives. Fourthly, we need a Public Investment Programme dealing with issues such as education, health, culture infrastructure and road connections to electricity. Fifth axis, a universal 'EXECONOMY'. The area we want to be the pioneer in "EXOCONOMO", have a support program from the state Catholic, for all dwellings, for the entire professional roof and for the public buildings that you have not done anything yet in Greece for the "ELEKTRA" programme that we have delivered to you for two years. Non-axle, energy communities, and western Macedonia and Megalopolis, so that these areas can become a hive of energy communities, so that households, businesses, farmers can support self-consumption, which is our programme commitment so that 50% of new permits come out of self-production, consumption and communities. We want lignite areas to be the pilot for this big change. Consumers thus meet their needs, have lower costs, but also have an agreement on the locations, which we do not have today, and have funding instruments, because for two years you have frozen the energy communities and the priority of connecting the network. Unfortunately, the government has suddenly remembered the energy communities now that it has been frozen for two years. I think it is shameful and hypocrisy to now come and announce measures for the energy communities in western Macedonia and to tell us the Secretary-General - and I will put it, Mr President - that because it is understood that applications for RES projects are too much to excessive, says Mrs Sduku, that neither the Government nor you will want the photovoltaic site to be filled. So, you guys allow it, and now you're coming to complain about what you've done? But does the rest of the sectors go better? Not entrepreneurship, of course. For what? That is why we are proposing the seventh axis. The environmental invoice is also in business. We started for all consumption in households against the government of SYRIZA. You're asking us what we did. We did this, it was our commitment, but you do not extend it to the businesses that we propose. And that is another measure that can help entrepreneurship so that we have lower energy costs in production. Is there any of this? No, ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are concerned. In addition to the concern of these regions, we see that payments throughout the NSRP are being delayed. Complaints say that a billion is stalling on payments - I think Mr Haritsis said yesterday in time - and on contractors and on measures perpetrated by the pandemic, that is, measures that you have announced are not being paid. And this is a billion missing from the market in the face of Christmas, while at the same time we find that you do not have any target for the Recovery Fund. You will not catch any target for the Recovery Fund, unfortunately not even for 2022. The Recovery Fund will become Greece's lost opportunity. That's what the Mitsotakis government does. For all of this, we want answers and I shall conclude, Mr President. The system of governance presented today by the New Democracy has been destroyed by both Mrs Perka and all the other rapporteurs, as well as by the bodies that we have called on. The major deficit, however, in the region is the deficit in the development plan that we came to the region and consulted and you were there, Mr Amanatidis, in June 2018, so that the whole institutional framework will come out after consultation with the operators and not with matte, chemical and black flags. Next to society we did it and solved problems then. The only thing that Columbia and the government are trying to do is to put the responsibilities in SYRIZA. Like SYRIZA is responsible for the announcement...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u186	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've exhausted your dentistry, too. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u187	...for this hollow, pretextful and unprojected announcement by Mr. Mitsotakis to the UN. But why would you put everything in SYRIZA? You obviously want to hide your responsibilities. You want people to forget that you are two and a half years of government and you are responsible for all that we live in. That's a great deal of truth. As whenever your mandate expires in any way, be sure that the Greek people will want to quickly forget the disastrous period of government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Because you're a devastating government for the country. And this is what lignite regions live in, all people live with great anxiety, unfortunately, and great unemployment. That's what you didn't give answers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, too. Mr Zisesis Jikalaya from New Democracy has the floor now. Let's make a programming. Immediately afterwards, Mrs. Kallipe Vetta will be speaking from SYRIZA, Mrs. Kafantari will have to speak because she will have to go to committee. And soon after that, Mr. Heta, you will speak. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the speeches by four parliamentary representatives, three ministers and one president of the party, the list of Members is now back for a long time. I want to begin, as the previous Minister of Development and because I consider it necessary, but above all, because history has written in September 2019 from the Step of the United Nations General Assembly Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis announced his decision, Greece's decision to assist with all its forces in reducing pollutants to 55% by 2030. A decision that, in order to act as a big plan, had to be integrated with the national energy and climate plan for the complete degreasing of the country by 2028, because lignite is in its use and polluting and expensive. A big, strategic plan that caused some doubts in other doubts. Some have talked about haste, but it turns out day after day these two years with the very and serious work that has been done that it was both a studied plan and targeted and, above all, just because Greece wants to be in the European Union's lead. By 2050 we have climate neutrality with a circular economy through national fair transition plans. It succeeds in Greece being a pioneer. First in the European Union. Because we managed to be the first country to have a national plan for a fair development transition. That is why we are first in getting assistance and support from the European mechanism of a fair transition, which they are now seeking to follow other countries in the European Union, and so we have almost guaranteed aid to be EUR 900 per capita of the areas where the transition is to take place. I must stress from the outset that we consider that in this effort strategic will be the role of the University of Western Macedonia by retraining the human resources in green entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that liberation is the strong antidote to the climate crisis. In order to achieve all this, there are various tools and structures that we are working on. The first important structure is the special service of the fair development transition, and since the honourable President of Mera25 acknowledged that the unscrupulous ethnic ruler Konstantinos Karamanlis has been the one who has contributed to the electricityification of the country for sixty years, building the public electricity company, I would like to say that the main structure of the draft fair development transition is an independent public service. I repeat, the Special Office of the IPTO is an independent public service, which will monitor the committees for evaluating the projects of the IPTO, those carried out within the territorial plans of the fair transition. Secondly, we recommend that the legal person of private law, the 'METAVICATION S.A.', whose main objective is to upgrade and develop the land of the degreasing zones. This transition will acquire the ownership of areas and will deal with the attraction, evaluation and support of investments. Great care is taken to speed up renewable energy projects and the cogeneration of electricity and high-efficiency heating. Because we believe in the role of self-government of the first and second degrees, which is why we recommend the Transnational Television Corporation to manage the issues arising from the transition. The Minister, who will supervise, along with the "METAVICATION S.A.", will implement territorial town planning plans within the areas of liberation. The Minister has the power to easily approve investments of more than EUR 50 000 in areas with a low footprint of environmental and carbon. The funding is secured by many sources, notably the European Fair Transit Facility, where the Fair Transmission Fund, which is to be provided within the Fund, has been provided with a specific EIF programme from 2021 to 2027 by the European Investment Bank, the Recovery Fund, the Green Fund and a Invest European Union scheme, which is mainly concerned with attracting private capital. Because we are also interested in the transition to normal, but also in the later period for that state, it will be a charity and a partner for the problems that concern local societies that are unemployment, heating, energy costs. Soon it comes - it's in the consultation - a new development law that wants to aim for a Greece with strong growth. There are also State aids and incentives for tax exemptions and subsidies. Because we want the authorisation of all these projects to be rapid, we therefore expect it to be done as with the strategic investment for projects of more than EUR 5 million in IPM areas, so the procedures will be very rapid. Our government, in its efforts, with its morality, ensures more than 7 billion so that we succeed in the transition being fair to everyone. Finally, Mr President, I should like to focus a little on western Macedonia, which we know very well that for sixty years as a single region the engine of energy production in the country has been the engine of the country's energy production. That's a cost. Since it was considered to have high GDP, some areas that did not benefit from lignite, from mining and production of electricity, lacked resources, such as Kastoria and Grevena. That is why we have given a great deal of effort to have a proportionate quota in this process and the government with the RDP and with what we have taken so far, such as for young farmers we doubled the sums of EUR 35 000, 40 000, with the disbursement of 70%, from the first six-seven months after the operational plan has been submitted, with OAED programmes that give economic breath and with programmes that are coming and will actually contribute to economic uplift. In conclusion, I would like to thank and congratulate on the commitments and reassurances given by the Head of the Fair Transfer Programme, the former Minister and renowned senior technocrat of the European Union, Kostis Mousouroulis, but also the responsible ministers, with the last principal involved the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis, who is all those with the presence and what symbolizes the Prime Minister's presence, have ensured that Western Macedonia will have more obvious incentives than all other regions of Greece in the programmes and investments that they give from now on. And as regards the tactical and political within the region, Kozani and Florina will have a small step further than Kastoria and Grevenas, so that eventually we can assemble together as a region of Western Macedonia in 2030 in a Greece with more green energy, with more cyclical economy, more ecological and more human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, too. I would ask all the speakers to keep the time because the list is long and still not the parliamentary representatives have spoken. Mrs Kallipe Vetta has the floor now from SYRIZA, and immediately after Mrs Kafantaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is an opportunity to make a brief review of the government's actions in the field of defoliation. I will say in advance that the general conclusion, as reflected by all the quantitative and qualitative indicators, is decaying. Unemployment is growing in the affected areas. There is a lack of sufficient and secure funding, because the actual amount is 1.6 billion plus 300 million for the restoration of land from the Recovery Fund. The rest for attracting and leverage private capital are blessed. There is also concern about adequacy and energy autonomy. Environmental equilibrium, land restoration or settlement relocations, the future of Ptolemais 5, teleheats are the main areas that the government has been considering for two and a half years and has remained inspected. Today's bill is not a clear confession of failure. It is the culmination and crown of inertia, oligoria, opacity, lack of consultation and participation that characterises the Government's initiatives, as did the institutional and self-government bodies called on the Parliamentary Committee on Production and Trade. On substance we are voting today on a structure for ligniteification, which, at best, will be fully operational by spring 2022, with the aim of examining, promoting, controlling proposals and measures to relieve lignite areas for a process that will be completed in 2023. Until the staff and multipliers, both multiplier and well-paid, understand each other and once again external associates and poster, what their object is, in which areas is implemented, what the persons and structures they need to communicate, will the substance be finished defoliation, without a single substantial, beneficial initiative for the inhabitants of western Macedonia and Megalopolis. At the same time, the provisions of the bill promote the multi-archy, centrality and the hydro-head and bureaucratic nature of the project. In short, I will mention the following: The governance model does not fulfil the requirements of the Rules of Procedure for the Fair Transfer Fund, the regulation of common provisions of the Funds, the toolbox of the transition to the planning of the European Commission's governance structures, and the recommendations of the World Bank on the roadmap for the transition of Western Macedonia to the post-living era. At the same time, there is no regional dimension of the model as there is a complete absence of local operators, Articles 3, 10, 14, 15, 24. The transition is from Athens. And here I would agree with a colleague who said that the first jobs being done by the government for deprivation are in the country's capital. In fact, there are a lot of management positions with high wages, special wages and bonuses, and the fact is that there is no mention, no special modulation of lignite areas for employee recruitment. Finally, two more points are worth pointing out. With Articles 15, 17, 20, 27, 28 and 29, PPC is detached from the restoration of the territories, without any further obligations, while it is facilitated in RES investments. The withdrawal of the Ministry of the Environment from contracts for land use and the transfer of land, as well as the advisory committees, is laid down under Article 17. In other words, the environmental dimension and protection are completely extinct, while the acquired knowledge and experience of RIS staff is being marginalised. We hope, at least, that no other feasibility is concealed for this decision and that you know that we will be following this. The minimum Members of the New Democracy especially from the lignite areas that came to the committees defended the bill, repeating the plan that exists after 2019 for an environmental profile, also for billions of money, etc. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] A brief examination and repackage is needed, not for the inhabitants of western Macedonia and Megalopolis - they know them and know very well what the government is planning for them - but for those who do not know what is going on. We were accused of not having a plan for liberation, when SYRIZA was already in 2017-2018, without this suffocating timetable, after consultation with the region, created the first Green Fund pan-Europeanly, which was financed with the rights of pollutants at an initial amount of EUR 60 million. In passing, last year, within the Christmas celebrations, Mr Hatzidakis secretly tabled this money to fill gaps that he created, while Mr Skrekas partially restored the percentage of funding to 4.5% from 6% on SYRIZA. This is the only money that is gradually coming or will gradually come to the area at the moment when we are talking about, that the New Democracy, the Government, remembered by the Prime Minister in Kozani, has come to note that it was here for the first time. Also, SYRIZA submitted TEC in 2018, which was praised by the European Commission, given the circumstances at the time. Then came the New Democracy, which unilaterally announced degreasing to serve gas interests, to underline that it is a fossil fuel, and speaks of contributing to design and performance. Two and a half years now we have heard only ambitious plans, not even a project in the region. It looks like the arsonist who starts a fire and then tries to erase it, claiming credit for his efficiency and effort. Unfortunately, the fire has grown, and it doesn't erase and what I mean. For workers, first and foremost, who have already lost their jobs, who are three and a half thousand, and of course for those who are going to lose their jobs by 2028. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call for your tolerance, Mr President. Also, the fire has grown and is not eradicated for the area that will experience a new wave of internal and external immigration, for the territories that the Minister today in an outbreak of populistism has shown us pictures of the lignite mines as if we were not aware of what lignite mines mean. We also know very well what we are living there, but people know and know what openly means to mines with a risk of self-flammation, at risk of landslides. But you do not know whether, when and how they will be restored and what use these lands will have. Furthermore, what will happen to primary production that experiences degradation and pressure from unreasonable and unreasonable increase in RES investments, for the relocations of settlements where they are removed and in place the vision of a few euros from PV parks, as you said the day before yesterday about Akrini?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u192	Finish it, please. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u193	For televisions where the future is invisible in terms of costs and uninterrupted operation. And the list of depreciation has no end, with the University of Western Macedonia, with the infrastructures that are not there, the Polyfytos Lake, the Maves that you are about to use for CYTAs and some points that are now evident that the government intends to give the region and its wealth to all kinds of interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u194	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u195	That is what we have heard in the committees, like other just as tremblingly, indicative of the way the government thinks. At the same time, the Minister pointed out himself yesterday, but he said, 'What happens today when the units are closed, we will see it when the units are closed', saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u196	Please, Mrs. Vetta, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u197	...on the issue of the energy mixture. This is the seriousness, prudence and duties of executives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude and thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance, I would like to say that this bill, like all your falsification initiatives, meet with the complete disapproval of the parties involved, the whole of the opposition, the citizens of the lignite regions. You are completely alone and obsessed, counterfeiters of reality and analgesite to people who are at the mercy of your policies, bets and experiments, an area that has offered so many years. We are therefore voting against the bill and we are sure that the inhabitants of the lignite regions are working together in our view. Make sure that with the change of political connections...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u198	Please! You can't talk ten minutes! Will you be here by 23:00? Think of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u199	...their life will cease to be a bet and an experiment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, too, but respect your colleagues. We can't make it to ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u201	I had a lot to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u202	I understand you've got a lot to do, but it's no other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u203	He's a Congressman of Kosani, show local tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u204	Mrs Kafantaris may have more, but always keeps time. You'll see that it'll end before the seven minutes. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I have two conclusions from today's debate. We had positions on the part of the Complex, on the part of fellow Members and Members of Parliament, more communication, with a great deal of science, I would say. It is not wrong to talk about scientific data, to discover climate change, which is a reality. The question is how we apply science in practice and whether the policies implemented really serve science, as we all believe and say. Of course, it is the climate crisis, but it is also a reality that some specific goals are coming from the global community, even from the European Union, for 2030 and 2050. In 2050 Europe is aspiring - and so we must - to be a climate neutral continent with a zero carbon footprint. Of course, all of us serve as a SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. I would like to make one comment. Gentlemen of the Coupling, even to the ministers themselves who spoke - the Minister, the Deputy - there was a great deal of tension, I would say panic. Perhaps because once again - and lately we have often seen it - opposition is contrary to the bills brought by this government. Maybe something's starting to change. Clearly, we are in favour of defoliation and we are clearly the first time, in 2019, that Mr Mitsotakis mentioned in the exhibition of Thessaloniki, regardless of whether after the dates he made them one in 2023, which he said with Ptolemais, one in 2028 and then downloaded it in 2025. Mr. Screkas, I think, made another statement. This shows sloppyness and lack of plan. From the start we have been positive in a policy, but that will lead to carbonisation, not only degreasement, which I would say is a subset, if you like, of carbonisation. But here we see the government bringing other plans. We replace the polluter lignite - no one denies that we have to go to a new era - and bring the gas. And it is not that we bring the gas - natural gas for a few friends, for a few good, great businesses. That is a matter. It is that we are doing so at the same time as the European Union and the European Investment Bank - this is recent - does not, in fact, finance natural gas infrastructure and investment. And then you say that we are opposed to defoliation, etc. We must not forget - and I will mention it again, ladies and gentlemen - that Alexis Tsipras was the one who signed the European Green Agreement. The government of SYRIZA established the first National Fair Transfer Fund in 2018 by open consultation, along with the assistance of the World Bank, launched a study on a roadmap for the transition of Western Macedonia, which, while invoking the Government, does not actually implement its recommendations. On the other hand, you brought a bill to go to a green transition to western Macedonia and Megalopolis, without a substantial participation of the local actors in society. You have heard that in the committee of Parliament from mayors, from the regions. The Region of Western Macedonia also had a concrete resolution on this. In the absence of local society! The energy heart of Greece - and western Macedonia and Megalopolis - is lost by you. People there are left to their luck. Because the region is not something which is invisible, it is its people who have contributed so many decades by degrading even the environment in which they lived, in energy throughout our country, throughout our country. Unemployment is thawing. About three and a half thousand are currently unemployed. There are small and medium-sized enterprises directly associated - and that is what we have to say - with the extraction of lignite, which are now what they will do? They're people in debt who had bought equipment, and now the banks are after them. These are the problems and this is the Region of Central Macedonia and Megalopolis. On the basis of information from the European Commission, twenty-five to twenty-seven thousand positions in western Macedonia and a thousand six hundred in Megalopolis are expected to be lost. We would expect some care, in fact, for the unemployed, for compensatory benefits in local communities, incentives to remove obstacles to small and medium-sized, energy communities, newly-integrated enterprises and a special "EXOCOCONOMO" rich, as I say, especially for the areas of energy transition and western Macedonia and Megalopolis. You blame us - another invention, because this is nice, the New Democracy keeps saying so, your ministers say so - that we have no proposals. Who doesn't have any suggestions? Alexis Tsipras made seven specific proposals with axes a month ago in western Macedonia. I am going to say this briefly, because my colleague mentioned it before: restoration of lignite areas based on new uses of land, re-entry into local communities, employment in restoring workers who lose their jobs in the region, supporting the unemployed, combating social exclusion, attracting new investments, special aid schemes, new development law, a special investment programme for western Macedonia, a universal 'EXEXOCOCONOMO' programme, as I mentioned before, especially in these areas. Also, energy communities, environmental invoices and all that. But what I have to say is that from the same studies that are being carried out and research - I am referring to the 'DIANEOSIS' which has done an opinion survey in the region - it seems that the world is desperate and does not know what is going to happen. So he's not informed, there's no consultation. They see this change as an opportunity, but an opportunity for agricultural production, new clean energy technologies, on these issues. Of course, they do not know exactly how this energy transition will take place, while they think it is an Athenian-centric, because the structures you are creating are in the Ministry of Development - new structures, new positions - where again the 'excellents' who so much love them and care for them will understand some positions and go by saying. Indeed, while we have a 'green' Prime Minister abroad, internally his government's policy is in the opposite direction. We are going to a violent process without planning, local society is out of them, and the consequences seem to be many. It's been two and a half years, because you've been running for two and a half years. And stop, anyway, this opposition to opposition. If you like opposition so much, give the space to become an Opposition. You are a government that you are currently ruling and you must give a solution to the world in these areas. We have the suggestion. Alexis Tsipras has committed himself, when we are going to become a government - and don't think - all these proposals can be implemented soon enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too. Mrs. Brysidou Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly important that I have the opportunity today, and I have the opportunity of expressing from the Step of this House the concerns of the citizens of my region and, at the same time as my position in this bill, to give answers to all these concerns and to offer proposals and solutions to the problems that really concern our societies. The area of Kozani - from which I come - and Florina and Megalopolis, are areas which, for the last sixty years after the mining of lignite, have gone to public power plants, the opening of mines and changed the whole nature of the area. Activities that were and with many chances of evolving have stopped to go to a particular form of activity. Farming has been very limited, because the land has become mines and at the same time the aquifer, because the depth of the mines exceeds 50 m, has become so low that irrigation costs are forbidden for many crops. So people have forced themselves to move from their villages, they have been compensated, they have found jobs, but they have lost their country, their homeland. They have mostly lost jobs and prospects for the future for their children and, more generally, for the region's progress. Since 2010, the climate change situation has led Europe to decisions with fines in order to reduce pollution and address this phenomenon. Pollution fines have created huge economic problems in lignite areas. And as it was also polluting and with high costs lignite, it created deadlocks to which a proposal and a solution had to be created immediately. At the same time, it was not easy for lignite plants to enter production, which gradually reduced lignite extraction and power generation from lignite. It must be said that in recent years, with a large increase in five years before 19, we have had such a reduction which has led to job losses in many of the activities that have not been carried out. And that's not a point of view. It is called the lignite energy production figures which have fallen by 70%, but also the high unemployment rates that have been recorded in recent years in the OAED. What about this whole time? The region was at a dead end, in major economic difficulties and proposals on the issue of unemployment. However, there were discussions, but there were other discussions, and there was another real will that proved in practice to be a concrete plan. After all, some lignite plants had finished their hours of operation and were fined twice to work a little longer. The New Democracy Government is coming to do what? What was done in fact and because of the financial burden, and why the units ended up, put it on the table and claim compensation from Europe and generally prepare a plan. It's different to compel you to something you can't avoid and it's different to face it in the face and claim for it. So, after all this process, the Prime Minister announced the program of liberation and the programme for adapting the country to environmental protection. He had no solutions to avoid fines on pollutants. Although 2013 we claimed to be excluded from this process, the European Parliament had set a threshold for per capita income to be below 60% of the European average. We couldn't get the exception. Therefore, the route was a one-way route. Colleagues of counter-population often refer to what is going to happen, what is going to happen and what is planned is sufficient. I would like to say that such a project, which is a major change in the whole profile of society, cannot be dealt with with with a few money or a few jobs. It was estimated that a large number of unemployed are present today and will emerge in the future. There is therefore a need for substantial funding to be given to investment in order to create many jobs in order to fill this gap. So the fair transition plan is organised, it has been studied long periods, people who are specialized in order to be able to collect European funds and manage them. This is how a new management is organised, the Management of Fair Development Change with rules. We cannot bring Europe's money and use it if we do not have procedures and rules. Who would bring all that money? Who would manage them. The municipalities, the regions that are already loaded with their own work? How could this money be absorbed? At the same time, the private entity "MATTER S.A." is founded, dealing with the areas it takes after a decision taken by PPC, which will make almost half of the acres available to manage them, either to provide investors or to be exploited and used in the best possible way. And within the management of a fair transition there will be a committee to assess investments, and with a special scheme such as strategic investments, so that procedures can be carried out quickly so that money can be used and the targeted project can be carried out. I don't think anything happened earlier. There was no programme and it did not appear that it could be implemented unless all these tools were created that can do all of this. At the same time, knowing that there will be unemployment in the next year or two years, there is also provision for subsidising jobs, about five thousand, so that workers can work in enterprises and all the money is paid through the OAS, in some cases 100%, 90%, 80%, up to 75%. There is a presumption that there is concern in general. And given that some 7 billion will be managed in the next period in order to deal with this transition, it is an optimistic message in which we hope. It is a hope for us, it is optimism, but we are obliged to monitor it, work together and make use of it. This money and this plan are in our hands. We must work to do this, to change the profile of our region and to ensure that jobs are adequacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs. Brysidou. Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much for giving me the floor, Mr President. I'm going to use my dentistry as well, as my Chief spoke, and I'll only have six minutes plus three nine. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as every day in our country they die from eighty to a hundred, five, a hundred and six of our fellow citizens, no doctor has yet been recruited to the National Health System in our country and no major health unit throughout the country, especially in Athens and Thessaloniki where they are, has yet to be achieved, I dared to ask the relevant Minister, Mr. Ploiros, who was here to defend one of his usually inappropriate amendments, which is precisely why no major health unit has been introduced. You know what answered me? And I am addressing you because I think that, apart from Greek citizens, you are also elementarily European. He replied: 'Why do we have no communism'? That's what your Minister answered. You have to calm him down. Because we don't have communism! Then I have to reply to him, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, that as far as I know Winston Churchill was not a communist when he ordered all that was in Dunkirk to save his army. As far as I know, Metaxas would not be a communist, the far-right dictator, when he ordered every mule, every ass, every donkey, every camine to send it to the Italian or Albanian front. So I have to say to Mr. Plori that the communists are not doing this, the patriots do it when their homeland is at war. And the pandemic that has already deprived us of more than eighteen and a half thousand of our fellow humans is the bloodiest war in which we have been in the last century. So, what have you done instead of dictating any major health unit for our fellow humans not to die on unclaimed, or to a ranch representing the ICUs? Do you know what you've done? Congratulations once more! You decided to close a hundred forty guardians of seventy disciples in prison because they are supposed not sent to school. But you are the only ones responsible, not you, your Government, the "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", who do not send them to school, as you left these guardians for two years in absolute darkness, uninformed. You never informed them of the scientific data. You never told them anything. It was in the dark. That's why these people don't get vaccinated anyway. That's why they don't send their kids to school. What is it? Are they rebels? They're afraid of their children dying in school. So you're responsible. It is the government of "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", fully responsible that seventy children have not been to school since the beginning of the year and no one from that government has had the trace of the emotiveness or dignity imposed to go alone this morning to prison. I should like to stress here that under Law 1566/1985 and all its amendments within the next few years, an administrative fine is already required, as you know best from me, for these cases, because no Greek citizen is allowed to receive an average education. But you, not all of you, your Government, the "Myriakos Mitsotakis S.A." once again chooses the repression. Who's that? “It hurts hand, it cuts hand.” The kids will end up like this without school and no parents. Are you proud of this? That shows how much you really care about these fifty, sixty kids, I don't know how much they are. Because you just leave them without parents. They didn't have a school, now they won't have any parents. Bravo! Mr Mitsotakis - who is both a Prime Minister and an anonymous company - told us here a month ago, unregulated, without getting reddened in the pandemic debate, which he himself provoked at the level of political leaders, - I recall in less than a month ago that he has no scientific evidence of how different the possibility of survival in ICUs, which is not ICUs, from a normal ICU. I mean, in an ITH posing as the ITH, because it's in a common bed, it has the intubations, but it doesn't have the people who are the intensifiers from above and of course doesn't have the environment of an ITH. So he told us he doesn't know and he asked us if we have any information, who? Former Prime Minister of a country of Europe. So we do not have to know what the difference in mortality is, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, in every favoured state in this world, not this continent, is 'obligable' to know. And, of course, the commander of the most fighting unit in northern Greece, Mr. Kapravellos, the commander of the "Papanikolaou" Hospital, who was lucky to visit last year and see what the people are fighting there. So he answered us very simply - not to me, Mr. Evangelatos, on Mr. Marinakis' channel, it is your channel too - that whoever stays forty-eight hours out of my mind has absolutely no luck. This, for your Prime Minister, who said that he did not know when he provoked the debate on this issue at the level of political leaders. I shall now proceed to a second point, Mr President. I try to be brief and relatively calm, as the dead do not let people who are decent and honest to be calm when speaking from this Step. The theatre censorship, Mr President, and something much more serious than that. Perhaps you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most historic political phrases that has been edited and never in Greece, the famous phrase of George Papandreou the elder 'who finally governs this place'. It is, of course, a rhetorical question which has never been answered for this reason. Now, however, we finally know the answer. It's simple. Mr Vangelis Marinakis, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, rule this place. Not alone, of course, it is assisted by Mr. Latsis, Mr. Niarchor, Mr. Vardinoyannis, Mr. Vassilis, Mr. Bobola and so on. You know them, don't mention them. I warmly congratulate everyone who is Members of Parliament in this House and let him rule Mr Marinakis. How does it appear that Mr Marinakis, Mr President, is ruling this place? We know that, because Mr. Marinakis has been sending his employees, framed by his bracelets, to stop performances, judging the theatres that dared to sautirize him, thus turning us into seasons of deep coastals, immediately after the civil war or even worse, if you prefer, in times of silk dictatorship, shortly before the advent of World War II. And instead, as would have been the case in any favoured state, any criminal prosecution or any final intervention of - supposedly - independent Greek justice - how independent it could have been when you were appointed by the President of the Ice Bay and the President of the State, up to all the members of the Ice Bay and all the members of the Council of State - Mr President, instead of judiciary moving on its own, the only reaction - and indeed the reaction which he gives you - was that of your Government representative, who was, of course, also exposed irreversibly. What did he say, Mr. President? He accused Mrs Stamatis - see Mr Marinakis, because his employee is - of self-righteousness. The question arises if Mrs Stamatis, according to the Government's representative, committed self-righteousness, what exactly was the offence committed by Mrs Stamatis, according to her representative "Metsotakis S.A."? What was the crime? The free satire Zaralikos attempted to do in one, supposedly, free theatre of our country? Two weeks ago, these five national parasitic oligarchs, these architects of the battle of the people of our country, were asked to come here, on the Committee of Inquiry of the House you set up with us, to ask, to answer and eventually, after a century, to account for their terrible crimes and decades at the expense of the truth and the Greek people. Not only did your group protect them from this nuisance, but they are devastated now, after the protection you have all provided them, dare to send each Mrs. Stamatis, assisted by bracelets in theatres, who simply sauté or criticize these parasitic oligarchs. So you have created, with parliamentary actions - and this is extremely dangerous - the environment, where every parasitic oval canalarch can quite well be terrorized by such methods in the artistic space, ultimately imposing self-crisis. The message Mr Marinakis sent to Mr. Zaralikos last week was that if he doesn't comply with the slut he was sold to him, they expect him to be even worse. And we know how Mr Marinakis means it 'the worst', in the case of 'NOOR 1' or '2', or I don't know what it's called, with the eleven witnesses that no one has ever submitted. Unfortunately, I fear that this message was not received, Mr President, only by Mr Zaralikos, but by all the artists in this country who insist on thinking and expressing themselves freely. If you prohibit even art from criticising, you should finally seriously consider what kind of civilisation is being installed in this country. Parliamentary Republic, if you'll excuse me, you won't say so. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u210	The Minister has the floor and Mr Constantine Vlassis will then be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, allow me to speak. In the temple of democracy where we can discuss everything, such as Parliament, it would be good when we blame citizens of this country, to present particular data. Otherwise, each category is aimed at these citizens, which may result in a distorted picture, which could have any effect. It is therefore very important to present evidence when we accuse citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u213	There's nothing personal about it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u215	For clarification. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u216	Are you seriously defending Mr. Marinakis in this area? Do you do this in your conscience? Because that unravels everything. What else can I say? If you want, I like parliamentary immunity right now, you have every majority to do so, and send me to justice to see what I will do with Mr Marinakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would like the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u218	Tell me what the question is, because you do not have any staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u219	I am a parliamentary representative and would like a clarification from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u220	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u221	For its location.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u223	I would ask the Minister to explain to us what the government's position is on the interruption of Mr Zaralikos' performance if a statement by the Ministry of Culture has been made and what its position is on freedom of expression. That's just it and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u224	There was a statement from the Government spokesman. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u226	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u227	Please. When an issue of topicality arises or is discussed outside the agenda, clarifications may be given Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, I have heard Mr Famello. What does that have to do with what I said? I said that in the House, in the temple of democracy, we should not be targeting citizens of that country. That is what I said, Mr President. I think I'm clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u229	The Minister was very clear. Mr Constantine Vlassis has the floor, and immediately after Mr. George Papaliou from SYRIZA, I will give Mr. Tsakloglou the floor for a few minutes for the last amendment. Mr. Vlassi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an important draft law which regulates various issues relating to the national draft of a fair development transition, one of the most important and critical projects for our country, the successful outcome of which can reform the image of not only the energy municipalities and regions of Greece but also the image of our entire country. Today, ladies and gentlemen, but also in the next period, we are regulating the details of a decision that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government have taken, unlike those who were ahead of us and who have only done to inactivate and prevent them. Our government took action recognizing that we could no longer close our eyes in a situation where only the worst could go. Although energy transition has been part of the wider strategy of the European Union to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, although lignite production has been going downwards for several years, although the price of pollutant rights has been high, although the population of the country's energy regions has been constantly decreasing, the previous government has not taken the decision to act, obviously fearing the political cost. The stake, however, was and is much more important. Today Greece is the first country to submit ESRB to the European Union, while we were able to obtain higher funding from the European Union by analogy with EUR 887,54 per inhabitant of the mining area and by a large difference over the second country. Today, through the ECHR, we have already ensured increased investment incentives for vulnerable regions, as well as the integration of these investments with more relaxed criteria into strategic investments, with all the result that they are licensed and completed. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has said that the project of the energy transition and, in particular, of liberation will be a simple and easy process. Believe me, as Arkas, I am first aware of the dependence of these regions on lignite production. The Megalopolis has supported the country's energy adequacy and security for many decades, without becoming indiscriminate about the standard of living of its inhabitants. We must recognise this - and we are doing so - and with coordinated actions to lead Megalopolis to a tomorrow with security, prosperity and development. We have already reached the commitment of a total amount of EUR 1.7 billion for the project, and investment of over 7 billion by 2028 from national and European resources, from PPC and from private individuals, while aid rates for firms in Megalopolis are up to 70%. Important steps have been taken and I would therefore like to thank the ministers, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Papathanassis, and of course Mr Mousouroulis, for their efforts. However, we must not at all restrain. The Megalopolis and Western Macedonia must be protected and assisted to a level similar to that which has supported our country for so many years. At every step of development, in any legislative framework, in any decision on measures of a social and investment nature, our view as a government must be directed at these regions. The current draft law creates the management framework, setting out the necessary institutions through which resources will be managed, but also attracting and facilitating investments in the ADM areas. This is a bill aimed at removing bureaucracy and a shortening of the timeframe within which the necessary procedures will run. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that a fair development transition is such an important project, which would be unreasonable not to create specific structures which will have as their sole object the attention of these issues. This is achieved both through the special service of the fair development transition of the Ministry of Development and Investment and through the setting up of ‘MEDAVIS S.A.’. In addition, important issues are dealt with in the preparation of specific urban projects within the intervention areas, and 30% or 20% of building conditions may be exceeded as appropriate in the context of the approval of the specific urban projects concerned. However, at this point I would like to return, Minister, Mr Papathanassis, to what I said earlier, that our thoughts must be constantly directed at these regions, with the aim of constantly improving interventions that will strengthen the ECHR and ensure its success. That is why I am very pleased, Mr Minister, that, following my own suggestion, and also fellow Members of Parliament, such as Mr Amanatidis, who are making progress in legislative improvements, such as Article 15, so as to ensure that the 'META S.A.' has an annex to Megalopolis, but also to its explicit provision of cooperation through the conclusion of contracts with the local contracting authorities. In the same logic, I think there should be a coordinated effort beyond this draft law to create the necessary development conditions for Megalopolis. I think it is absolutely essential, for example, to prioritise the lignite regions in the process of drawing up local urban plans, which has already begun, and in particular, for Megalopolis, we must give priority to moving forward with the industrial area in question. Ladies and gentlemen, a fair energy transition is not a process that will be completed from one day to the next. A programme, a strict timetable and hard work is needed, always in cooperation with local actors and society. It is up to us to make these regions a model of growth and productive transformation. The inhabitants of Megalopolis, Arcadia and Western Macedonia deserve it. It is the state's duty to ensure their well-being and to address the consequences of the energy policy that we have. The Government of New Democracy will not be afraid or inactive. It will act in the interest of the lignite regions as well as of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too. Mr Georgios Papaliou has the floor, and then, Minister Tsakloglu, you will make your speech to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, another false draft is being discussed in the House today. The "just" transition is unfair, since it is a transition from stable jobs - and not only to PPC, but to the wider region, to the private sector - to unemployment, from life, to the death of whole regions, Megalopolis including. Megalopolis and the other lignite regions have lifted the burden of electricity from the country for decades, to the detriment of the land, the environment, the health of the inhabitants and balanced development. This is because the Megalopolis and the wider region, as an economy and society, was structured on the PPC plant, so that other areas of development would not be considered and exploited. The climate crisis is a global challenge, which imposes changes in energy policy, in which, of course, great interests are involved and conflict, the class sign that the majority rapporteur refused. The decision by the Government of New Democracy to decommission violently, the lack of planning for lignite regions - in this case also for Megalopolis - and the current plan to privatise the energy infrastructure in the country lead to a dead end both the adequacy and balance of the energy system and the economic and social base of the lignite regions. The intentions of the Government of New Democracy are obvious: Energy planning, energy policy, competitiveness, the formation of the energy mix and prices for consumption - households and businesses - adequacy, security of the country's energy supply and transition to climate neutrality, rather than being the subject of public policies and, of course, of large public investment, the management of the networks and the production of electricity. They have already been allocated and are in progress. Violent ligniteification runs counter to the country's energy interests, but also to areas hosting lignite plants, where adverse effects from shutdown are not suspended and are not restored due to a lack of planning, since energy is a social asset to which all citizens should have access and, indeed, at low prices. The glossy rise in electricity and gas prices demonstrates the 'false' direction of energy policy pursued by the Government of New Democracy. Energy poverty and access to energy for few are not just door-to-door but I have lived in reality. The period of frustration is a time for adaptation and taking measures and critical decisions for the Megalopolis region as well. The draft 'just' - so described - is a draft for an unjust development transition and, indeed, inadequate. The model of governance for the implementation of the project, which is regulated by the draft law, does not fulfil the conditions laid down by the toolbox and regulations of the European Union. After all, we all need to understand that our country as a Member State of the European Union is equal to the other countries and must negotiate to promote its interests. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and I think the Greek Government has not negotiated in this case. In this context, the project is being implemented centrally, since everyone involved in the governance of the development transition is based and decides at the centre. This is a process that is opaque, centralised, complex and vague to structures, roles and responsibilities, without the participation of the local bodies involved in defoliation. In other words, there is no regional dimension, which should have a primary role through the participation of local government, local economic and social actors in the process of "fair" transition. Even the planned recruitments do not concern people from the region. High-level jobs are being created in the centre with high wages, of course, and bonuses are being created. My old art sieve for the New Democracy. And yet no traceability molecule is foreseen. The resources of the "just" Development Transfer Fund have been reduced over your days, gentlemen of the New Democracy. The resources for the implementation of the project are inadequate and especially for the Megalopolis region, where almost all the economic activity developed in the area depends on and is linked to the monoculture of lignite. There is therefore an absolute need for support and development programmes in the post-liner age. Furthermore, and indicatively, it is not included in the draft specific policy for energy communities, which can be the pillar of a policy that is based on energy democracy and that leads to energy poverty, energy exclusion and energy security. Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Arcadias Parliament, I must say that the Megalopolitan has been celebrated by announcements, by promises, by non-existent projects, by unseen investments that have been altered for 'close the mouths' which have been opened and which will be increasingly opened as long as the desertification of the region is intensified. All of this is announced and carried out as a result of the actions of the officials of the New Democracy. It's another return to old-fashionedism. What the region needs is to create stable jobs - income for residents, emergency income or guaranteed income for as long as it takes - and prospects for young people to remain and live in the region. Time is needed to draw up a special development plan for Megalopolis and the wider region during the post-lining period with the active involvement of local society, which, of course, needs to be activated and mobilised in this direction. However, our thinking is not enough, we need action and moves, and that can only be done, as I said, by mobilising local society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u233	Thank you too, Mr. Papaliou. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou, has the floor to support this amendment under number 1164/8-12-2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs concerns the regulation of the OAS. In particular, the regulation in Article 1 of the amendment explicitly provides for the possibility that the OAU's Board of Directors may decide to specialise in the management, distribution and use of the amounts allocated to, or through, the Agency for the implementation of subsidised continuing vocational training programmes, irrespective of the source of the funds, Union resources and, in particular, the resources of the Recovery Fund including. The regulation also covers the vocational training programmes implemented by the training requirements method, the so-called vouchers, and is introduced to cover the current regulatory gap with regard to the general competence of the board of directors of the body to manage each source of vocational training and education. The proposed regulation also provides for the possibility of enrolment by the Governing Council in a distinctly separate way of the centres of lifelong learning, the so-called CEDIBIMs, set up by higher education institutions in specific registers for the implementation of vocational training programmes, in order to facilitate the interconnection of studies with the labour market. The arrangements set out in Articles 2 to 4 shall establish the necessary organisational changes to the OAED in order to enable the best use of the funds to be made available by 2025 primarily from the Recovery Fund, as well as from the NSRF, for training and training programmes. In particular, its financial services shall be restructured in a way that more efficiently serves the principles of sound financial management and the efficient use of resources. To this end, firstly, the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs and, secondly, the corresponding Directorate-General for Economic Affairs of the OAED Regional Directorate, while abolishing the existing structures, i.e. the simple management and the sections respectively, and transferring the staff to the new structures. Finally, the proposed provision of Article 5 extends the favourable arrangement for reducing the number of days required to pay the unemployment benefit and for seasonal workers other than tourism and food. In particular, it is laid down that for 2021 it is sufficient, by way of exception, for a minimum of fifty and not a hundred days of insurance for the provision of regular unemployment benefit and for other seasonal professions, in particular in canning, in calibration and in other professions linked to agriculture and in the processing of agricultural products, for many workers who risked not to complete the required number of days of insurance, taking into account the adverse consequences of the emergency measures to deal with the krone pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u235	Thank you too for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u237	Minister, do not go away if the rapporteurs have a question for clarification on the amendment. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u238	The fact is that we were expecting Mr Hatzidakis to come, Mr Minister, because we would also like to ask him a number of issues relating to the bill. The first question we want to put is this: How much do you think it is finally possible to come to a bill on the defoliation of amendments and, indeed, of the Ministry of Labour on such important issues? As far as we can see from the rapid reading - why you tabled the amendment last night - we see that you are changing the organogram of the OAED in this amendment. So the question is very simple: why has the OAED organogram not been discussed in Parliament's committees, it has not been consulted, and you are bringing it into an unrelated bill to be discussed? Apart from the fact that this is obviously clipboard and has nothing to do with perfection, which the government claims to have, is it not a real problem and a democratic and technical problem? Why, then, will the amendment of the OAED organogram pass through the back door today? Secondly, we are concerned: in the first article, if I am not mistaken, listening to your position and reading the amendment quickly, you include a change in the responsibilities of the Management Board. In fact, Mr President, it says that there are tools for allocating and making use of resources for continuing training. The first simple question is, has the OAS Board of Directors not so far had competences and tools to allocate the resources for continuing training? It seems amazing and obviously funny, but I ask you to understand the great contrast. A board of directors operating in this direction has now come and changed by putting in, Mr President, the term 'for managing the resources of the Recovery Fund'. So, with ambiguity, you are opening a window for a sum which, if I am not mistaken, amounts to a billion euros. So this question arises: why are you amending something that was working to some extent? Tell us what his mistakes are. Enter opacity and ambiguity for the resources of the Recovery Fund, which our country has serious problems of absorption. And thirdly, you are changing the procedure by adding, if you wish, elements relating to the eligibility conditions for compensation and assistance for out-of-work workers, and this concerns seasonal occupations. We want something much more specific, Minister. We want you to tell us why it is completely unclear, I think it is the fifth article of the amendment, about what professions this amendment refers to in particular. Because we have tabled an amendment to you containing the workers of focus and tourism, and we are talking about the two hundred thousand workers that your Government did not accept twenty days ago. So, Mr President, since we are talking about your region for two hundred thousand people, we want you to tell us clearly and clearly who they are involved, why they are not included in tourism, recreation and catering, and why you are making such a biased anti-government policy on the part of the government. We have tabled an amendment to include these workers. Obviously this concerns the extension of the 50-page measure, but it is not included in the amendment, and this is a serious problem of an anti-government policy on the part of the government in a sensitive sector affected by the pandemic. You have to answer Christmas holidays as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u239	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u240	First of all, I will totally disagree with Mr Famello about what he said was from the back door, in secret and violating, colossal dimensions and so on. Let us be quite clear. Three things. For the responsibilities of the Management Board, only the reference shall be verbal. The reference in the existing framework is for the NSRF only. As a result, various other Union resources simply cannot be exploited. We are expanding it by making it generally Union so that the Recovery Fund can expressly enter. Secondly, the reorganisation of the establishment plan is obviously not of major importance. The Directorate-General for Finance becomes the Directorate-General for Finance, as has been done in many parts of the public sector. It was something that was very successful, which I think everyone accepts. The third is tourism. This has already been done. It was on December 1st of what I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u241	I'm not talking about fifty marks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u242	But that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u243	We're talking about two hundred thousand employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u244	Well, that's what I'm talking about and what happened was the extension to specific sectors that I referred to. I have, in other words, talked about canning, calibration, pieces of the agricultural sector and the processing of agricultural products. I think I was quite clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u245	You leave out two hundred thousand workers who didn't complete the fifty marks because of a pandemic?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Femmelle, please. You asked a question for clarification. The Minister gave it to them and it's over, judged. Mr. Haritsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] First let me thank Mrs Katerina Notopoulou and my fellow Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution Mr Heta for having been kind enough to give me their position because of a family obligation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most complex and topical issues of our time and certainly the most critical is the green transition. A debate which for many years concerned a small minority of graphics in the rest of the world today is a key area for policy, development strategy, but also a key area of ideological and political confrontation. The European Union over recent years has understood that it cannot continue to overlook this very crucial issue and thus constitutes a key pillar of its strategy and the direction of a large part of the financial instruments. That is why official positions from the European Union are talking about climate neutrality by 2050. We must realise that the consequences will be nightmareous if we do not face the climate crisis. One of the main questions, however, is whether the green transition will concern the whole of society, how it will not be a chance again to exploit itself from oligopolistic interests and to increase inequalities. The main issue in short is who will benefit and who will pay the costs from this transition. In this direction we need concrete and stable steps to ensure energy adequacy, energy costs accessible to the citizens and the economy and targeted policies to support vulnerable groups and productive strata, large public investment for distribution networks, but also for energy storage, public control over the networks and the placement of the RES and, of course, control and regulation of the market to deal with speculation phenomena, speculation phenomena which, unfortunately, today, the Greek society pays very expensively. It is precisely in this context that, in my opinion, we are also in the debate on the draft legislation on defoliation. In other words, it is not a debate that is taking place in a vacant capacity, if you like. Here too, the first issue that is important to highlight - and our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative - has said so - is that, because words are important, we must not talk about defoliation. For years - and the European Left has been saying this for over ten years - we have been discussing carbonisation. Unfortunately, too, it seems that Europe and the European Union are very ahead of the current government. He recently announced that projects and fossil fuel projects will not be financed in the new period. Does the government know that? Is he doing something about it? Is it faced with this European design as a visible reality and indeed within this energy crisis, which we see where the gas price has reached and with our country recording in November the highest wholesale price of electricity across Europe for the first time in its history? This is the situation that we are facing today in relation to the energy sector in our country. We are therefore saying that the need to demolition the areas with Kosani, Florina, Megalopolis is obviously imperative and unirreversible. It is, unfortunately, two and a half years after the Prime Minister's announcements that have been through, and still the government has not succeeded in setting up a holistic plan to tackle this major challenge, how there will be a development plan that will proceed smoothly with the creation of jobs and incentives for investment in the regions, to create a new productive model for the region. What did we see happen? We've seen some announcements of rifles in the air. We have then seen an abrupt closure of the lignite plants. And ultimately, local society pays them. And, of course, this sloppyness also led to the fact that some of the units were forced to reopen last summer. This will probably happen in the winter before us, precisely because there is no serious real strategy and, of course, precisely because the main public instruments of energy policy are not being used. The opposite happens. They are currently being allocated to private interests. I'm talking about PPC, I'm talking about D.C.D., I'm talking about DEP.D. But you have created a draft law, which you have created yourself, excluding local society, excluding local bodies. We heard them in the institutions' hearing just the day before yesterday. A number of issues have been raised by institutions, whole societies whose life depends on this transition process, by this process of liberation, by this process of their offspring. You have submitted proposals to the European Union for a fair transition plan, for the operational plan for a fair transition, without local consultation, without even informing the House. New services are being created in Athens, a daunting, a difficult system is being created, and here without any consultation with the local society, with the workers, but also with the whole - I would say - of the local economy, of the region's entrepreneurship, which is currently being affected by this lack of a plan for liberation. So what about all these people? What about an entire society that is currently anxious about its future? Unfortunately, I fear that what is being shaped again in this area is a framework for creating a development perspective that promotes the exacerbation of social, regional and also intra-regional disparities. We, for our part, have tabled a number of proposals. Immigration zones must be green and fair growth standards for all. We are talking in terms of energy democracy that ensures climate justice and the participation of many in RES energy production. You know, it's not just a technology change to go to renewable energy. It is a change in total of the energy production and consumption model, the model under which the country’s entire production system operates. We have committed and reiterated our commitment to a zero-debt clause in the region of Western Macedonia, and of course the issue of spatial planning is also very critical, an issue that cannot be absent from a bill that has something to do with liberation. We're talking about providing incentives. We are talking about the need to support the local economy. We are talking about the special provision of development law, covering part of the insurance and labour costs. We are talking about tax incentives and the use of all available financial instruments. In short, we are talking about a specific public investment development programme for western Macedonia, with public funding of local infrastructure projects, rail electricity connections, outward-looking infrastructures in education, health and culture, which will give direct jobs. There are a lot of things that can be done, Minister. Unfortunately, we do not see such a plan on the part of the government. We do not see a policy that will come and transform and at the same time support those who today - over three and a half thousand people - are unemployed and who need state support. Mr President, I do not have the time to expand any further. You will, however, allow me to conclude with a comment on a matter that has emerged in the last few days and yesterday, we have also had a timely question to the Minister of Development on the issue of the freezing of payments to the NSRP. The Minister told us that everything is going well, that there is no problem, that payments are progressing normally, despite all the protests by market operators from local government. That was yesterday morning. Just a few hours later, you yourself in the amendment you tabled to this bill on liberation you say in the explanatory statement to the amendment. And so that there are no misunderstandings, I quote from the explanatory statement itself: "Due to the unforeseen duration of pandemic and its mutations and its consequences, as well as the unprecedented extent of natural disasters, the funding from the Public Investment Programme of 2021 projects needed to deal with the above for the relief of the affected. As a result of the unforeseen need for direct financing of these projects relating to the above-mentioned circumstances, non-adequacy of resources at the present time for the payment of other projects included in the Public Investment Programme, although they have been received, despite the fact that the projects have been implemented and have been submitted by the beneficiaries with the necessary supporting documents.’. That is what you yourself say in your explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Haritsis, you've been in ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u249	It is therefore fully confirmed that what we have tabled in the timely question is that there is a pause of payments at the moment in the ESDP programmes. Last morning you were confusing last night, you confirmed it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, too. The floor will now be taken by the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Hetas, then Mr. Skourletis, then by Giannis Antoniadis from New Democracy - I do not know if you will make the change - and then immediately by the Deputy Minister of Transport, Mr. Papadopoulos. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am missing, but am I almost certain: are you here? Oh, no. Well, I suggest in the next election, Mr. Papathanassis, since you're doing so well at the Ministry, and everyone says that's what they say, going to the election as a hereditary, claiming people's vote. Because otherwise, when you're out in society, you go door-to-door and you see people in the eyes, and then you decide when you're not here. And I suggest you, Mr Papathanassis, go down to Ptolemais, Florina, Kozani as a candidate in those areas. I think it is a very good idea to go down as a candidate for parliamentarian in the areas you are running today!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u252	Don't give him any ideas!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u253	That's a very good idea. I have the feeling that if you get down in those areas, you won't even find your vote!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u254	Mr Heta, it is not for the Members to go down to two regions. Only the party leaders can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u255	I told you one thing, whoever wants it. In one of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u256	He doesn't leave his district.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u257	In one of all the things that the New Democracy Government is doing today, Mr. Papathanases should go down as a candidate, since the bill is so good, that you have come to tell us since this morning that it is very good, that we are the engine of growth and the lead engine in Europe. The Minister of Development was screaming a little while ago. Okay, now, are we serious? Are we serious, Minister? You're a serious man and a moderate man. What are the things you say in the world? Is it possible to say in this House that Greece is the steam engine of Europe in defoliation, that we are the pioneers and we are happy and even applauded that we are shooting our feet? Unbelievable! We're disposing of 300 billion lignites in value, and we're happy? We are the first in Europe! Don't say what we are in Europe. And what we didn't hear here today, that Mr. Georgiadis is an economist. Really, these are cubs. Tell me, if you get to meet Karanika about cannabis, you get to be an economist. Okay, it's on a road like that man. He said that in this Chamber populism dominates. Who said that? The Minister of Development! He said that populism prevails in this Chamber. Fire down to burn us! Mr Papathanassis, I will tell you where Greece is atmospheric engine in Europe. Greece is in the first place and is Europe's steam engine in the 43.3 billion that we have borrowed over the last year and a half. We are first with a difference, Mr Papathanassis, in the companies that are at risk of closure, with padlocks. We are first with a difference of 12 billion from what we get for wind turbines and just 130 million - not billion - for primary production, for agricultural production. We are pioneers in abolishing and'suicide' our lignites. We are pioneers and Europe's steam engine, Mr Papathanassis - and you also welcome your Minister - which we have the most expensive gasoline, the most expensive oil, the most expensive electricity in Europe. Yeah, we're pioneers! We've got the most accurate prices in the first-care species. We're pioneers. We are the steam engine of Europe and this steam engine travels the seven hundred thousand Greeks abroad and turned the back of Greece, our homeland, because there is an indestructibility and there is nothing standing up. Yeah, we're pioneers. We are pioneers in getting the homes of the citizens, the Greeks, with the auctions. We are pioneers in giving 1 billion. only time for illegal immigrants. This is what you tell your Minister and listen to, and if you intend to go down to politics as a heretic, have these things in your mind. We're pioneers. You won't rush in here. You won't rush our logic, you're a hundred and fifty eight. Do what you want. You will be judged by the people, the Greek citizens. But you will not even convince us that what you do is wonderful and wonderful and interesting. Don't go crazy now! For a Greece that has the most expensive fuel in Europe. Do you know what people say out there, Mr. Papathanasis? If you were going to vote-vote out as we go, you would be called "my child" -so they say to me because I'm young, I'm forty-eight, I'm not your age - "or we'll eat or we'll warm up." That's what we're told, Mr. Papathanasis. Or we'll eat this year or we'll warm up. Both of you can't do it. It can't be done. And because I saw you too much enthusiastic before, and we wondered, because I say again that you are a moderate person, you have today exceeded your limits in intensity and you have shown photos, we like the photos. You are not telling us, Minister, these are not sub-species or anything else. Do they remind you of anything? Nice, colorful photos. They're the Squirrels, see here. Show us these pictures, too. You green economists, thinking about the environment and destroying Halkidiki. Here's what you see. It was a forest. Now that's it. Do you see them? That's it. Is that why you're going to say anything or the printing machine just prints what you want? These pictures don't print your machine? The 'Efologists Greens', you who are going today to bury the lignite in Greece? I'll tell you, Minister, you respond to everything. We really have to admit that. Tell us a little about Germany, which is a country that has a model in many, in the first half of 2021, increased its lignite output by 35% compared to the first half. 'Statista', I will put it in the Minutes. In the first half of 2021, Mr President, electricity generation in Germany was the lignite with 27%, do you understand that? From the official Statistical Office of Germany this information is available. Germany produced in the first half of 2021, about seventy billion kilowatts in lignite, which was enough to meet Greece's needs. Germany is a country that meets its needs and exports electricity with lignites. Germany has continued to invest in lignite, Mr Papathanassis, for the next fifteen years. The suckers are the Germans, and we're the smart ones here? So tell us, does Germany want to destroy the environment? Or does Greece destroy the environment? You have told the world, Mr President, that if Greece stops producing greenhouse gases - because fairy tale arrives here with the lignites you are saying - Greece will bear 0.3. How much can Greece produce? 0,3. The European Union produces 27% of greenhouse gases, China and the United States 52%, and the rest is Russia. Greece in 0.3. Are we going to save the planet, the poor ones with the 0,2 that we're producing in gas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u258	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u259	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're not thinking about anything. You share the property of Greece as if it were your grandfather's field. You'll answer for it later. Politics always. Because you're going to eat too black from the world, I'm telling you, with what you're doing. But is it not even your concern, Mr Papathanassis, what is going to happen to you? Western Macedonia, Arcadia, Ptolemaida, Florina, Megalopolis? Mr President, you will give me a minute to finish, that is very interesting. In 2011 census in the Kozani Prefectures, Florina lived two thousand people. One hundred and fifty in Kosani, fifty thousand in Florida. In 2001 there were sixty - eight thousand people living in Kozani and fifty - nine in Florina. In a decade the population fell by twenty-seven thousand, by 12%. Now we'll see how many people stay there. What will the world do in Florina and Kozani and Ptolemais? Blowing the wind turbines? You've ruined the world, whole regions. All these years you have been concerned with Brain Drain and how our young people will return back. Six hundred thousand Greeks left abroad and you're kicking people out again, you're kicking them out. You don't care anything. And what are you doing? Totally hypocritical - and I am closing with that, Mr President - 'to burn you, to grind you with oil'. I'm ruining you, I'm pooring you, I'm leaving you unemployed, I'm ruining you, but look what good I am. I'll give you the air conditioning, huh? I'll give you the air conditioning, that's great. "To burn you, Yannis, to lure you oil"! Minister, really if you hear the rest of it, I would really like you to answer us so that the Greeks and Greeks can hear what you have to tell us about the statistics we have presented to you here today concerning Germany and lignite and how Germany uses lignite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u260	In conclusion, Mr Colleague, you've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u261	Answer us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, too. Minister, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u263	I listened carefully to Mr. Heta, and I think that at the first session of the House you swore, Mr. Heta, faith in the Constitution of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u264	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u265	Which, through the Constitution of the country, is also the opportunity to appoint outside parliamentary ministers to this government. It's not just that you're not respecting the Constitution of our country, but you're also a racist, Mr. Heta, you're an age-old racist, and within a short speech you managed to include everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u266	What does it say, Mr. President? I did not say that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u267	Nor do you have faith in the Constitution of your country, as to whether it is possible for a government to have extra-parliamentary ministers, but also your age-old racism does not honor you. That's what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u269	Wait a minute, where you want to say how respectful the Constitution is, you have a right to say it. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much. Minister, you misunderstood me. I did not say that it was forbidden or badly done by the government. We barely appreciate you productively as Minister and have told you many times in the committees. I think you got misunderstood for no reason. I said it's true that it's the government's right to put some ministers who aren't here. Of course. We didn't say anything different. Rescind a little. But I said: do you know what it's like for Papathanassis, Hetas, any candidate parliamentarian in these areas, which you are really hurting today? That's what I told you, and I'd like to, because you're a noble man, and I think you misunderstood me to withdraw. There's no reason, nor is my style.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Skourletis, please come a lot, because we've had enough of you today. Minister, do you want the floor? I'm sorry, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u272	I should like to inform Mr Heta that for twelve years I have been here in local government, you have obviously not read my CV, and I would also like to say that, with respect for which I am dealing with the Greek Parliament, I expect the same respect from you, Mr Heta. I think that's the element of this House. The respect of one another against the other. That is what honors democracy, not your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u273	Mr Skourletis has the floor and then Mr Antoniadis immediately thereafter. Come on, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Papathanassis, I heard you reminded this House that you were here. You should have honored this previous quality of yours. Because in the plan presented to us by the local government it is absent. There has been no consultation on the substance, you have heard it from the institutions. And since the hypothesis of frustration is not new, over a 20-year period it is also about local society and it is our concern. I would like to say to you that what described your speech today as your morning and yours and yours and the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, is a very hypocrisy. If today we were to give a color to hypocrisy, we'd put the color blue. Why? Because while you are supposed to agree with the issues of the climate crisis in the case and in the direction of ligniteification, i.e. decompensation from fossil fuels, because that is what this is, I imagine, not only limiting it to lignite, at the same time doing everything in order to increase the specific weight of gas. Not only with the specific options concerning the issues of electricity production through imported gas, but also with permits for additional hydrocarbon research in our seas. If you are, then, and you believe strategically with the history of the decommissioning of fossil fuels, you know that an investigation has three phases. Until it reaches the production stage, it can be fifteen and twenty years and huge funds. Are we not going to need the transitional gas then? So, you're hypocrites. You appear to be defenders of an environmental policy, but in practice you are undermining them. You were told a moment ago by my colleague in the Skouries case. I would therefore say to you, in the case of the Environment Inspectorate, which you have put on the plaster, such as all the control mechanisms of the state that you hide them, weaken them, make them decorative. You take their responsibilities, their responsibilities and give them to private operators. So stop this hypocrisy around the environment. After all, your party, and for 20 years we have been talking about liberation, it was the one that made Ptolemais 5's investment. Isn't that right? Now, you come and you're trying to see what you're going to do. Did we make this design? We found him. However, when I was a Minister for Energy and Environment in 2016 - ask Mr Antoniadis and Mr Amanatidis - the first thing I did was to set up a committee with all the actors and MPs of opposition and collapsing in my office and put down some issues that were related to how we are going to get through the post-lining era. Ask them if I'm lying. Congressman Florins will be out after a while, and he'll tell us here. So you, beyond hypocrisy, are also characterized by sloppyness. You present a plan with general references but in the scope either in Megalopoli, Kozani, Florina or Ptolemais, in western Macedonia, you have not predicted anything. Is there a question of land restoration? There is. Mega project. Can he immediately create thousands of jobs? Three thousand jobs have already been lost because of your policy. Moreover, the unemployed have been added to the area above. I was last week. Is that a plan? Shouldn't he have started? Two and a half years is what you've been doing? And what restoration so that this restoration is combined with those uses that will create new jobs and keep the world in the prefecture. Who knows today where he can invest what? Where can he put photovoltaics, where a piece of land can be used for the primary sector. Nobody knows. That's what people say. Ask your own MPs who are elected there. You are talking about investment in renewable energy sources. Come on, let's go where there's no space on the networks and there's citizens who have put photovoltaics on their roofs and they can't do self-production because you haven't predicted there's room on the networks. That's why you're sloppy plus everything else. Could the University of Western Macedonia contribute to the problems that have arisen in this transition to the post-lining era? It could be. But you do everything in your power to close sections and with the special import base you lead it to the flare. It's not us, it's the universities there. Aren't these very specific problems, which you are literally ignoring? The region on western Macedonia has great rainfall. You know he doesn't have irrigation works? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] So for those areas that will go through the primary sector you have not created and there are no infrastructure projects in your design to be fertile, productive. So how will the world stay there? Have you discussed this? I obviously didn't give birth to them alone by my head, the agencies called them. We consulted, we heard the world. It is what you do not do in all areas of government policy, because you have a perception of an executive, central state of Maximos who wants to decide in the interpretation of local societies. That's what you're doing, a centralist policy. You will obviously have your reasons. Perhaps it will facilitate your other jobs such a way of working. I have heard the Minister refer to PPC's issues and to the accuracy. First of all, I found - for Mr Georgiadis - that he is not aware of how the penalty is being formed in the wholesale electricity market. Because if he were known, he would know that at the beginning of last summer the most expensive form of electricity was then lignite. But today it is natural gas, and because there is exactly a distortion in the wholesale market, the price is not shaped by the intermediate value but by the upper limit, the most expensive form of electricity is assembled by all the others. And the hydroelectrics that are cheaper and the EIAs that are cheaper at the moment. So, if you have to do something, it is to intervene in this area and ask for a change of strategy in Europe as a whole. In these, unconscious. And if you have to do something at the current juncture, where the accuracy is scaling and engulfing households and businesses, it is to intervene exactly at the core of this new wave of precision that is the energy cost. So intervene on the excise side. Petroleum, gasoline, which incorporates this cost into shelves' prices, and we have an inflation that may be below the European average at the moment, but which is the highest in Europe. So these show a deficiency, an inability to understand what the problems of the great majority of Greek society are and I think that under the conditions that you are going to implement this project, having dismissed a key instrument of intervention on the issues of the energy market, such as the public PPC that is now ceasing to be public, we will actually live at times of great energy poverty. And while there is a very specific proposal, we had arranged to create a specific framework of self-production, or through energy communities to get local communities inside, there are screens, you create obstacles. Why? Because you obviously have other priorities. Your priority is to strengthen the major business activity in this area too, without regard for the impact. I think your design is now visible. His results were seen in the Prime Minister's recent visit to Western Macedonia. I think it's just the beginning. The next few months will be of great interest. Wait and you'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Good evening, and from me, many years to those who celebrate today. Mr. Ioannis Antoniadis is called to Stepma by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I must confirm what Mr Skourletis said. In fact, in four and a half years they have made the committee, and I am also augmenting it. And you have made committees, Mr Colleague, and you have had discussions of philosophical searches and walks. You didn't do one thing: you didn't do one work in Florina Prefecture, and I say it with sympathy and soul pain. I'm trying to find a play, a marble column that says "had been forced over SYRIZA". There's not one! If you find it, I'll frame it in the House. Find it, I couldn't find it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u277	Ask local government. Don't be so...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Skourletis, he didn't interrupt you, he confirmed. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u279	I would like to confirm, and I am pleased that you have been very landed in relation to other colleagues who have said a great deal. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the debate, which was long enough, a message leaves the Greek Parliament today. This government and project have resources and political will to make a fair transition. Our time and bureaucracy. The administrative structure of the draft law, which provides for the bodies which are set up, with the companies which are set up, is to keep the implementation times shorter. Are all problems solved? No, of course not. But it brings the works closer to the citizens. Is the project easy? No, of course, as the Opposition presents it very simply. Fifty years of lignite, half a century of lignite! We are talking about transition from one time to another, from the lignite age to the green era. This whole project needs its time, to mature the idea, to implement the investments. But we say so clearly to the citizens. It has nothing to do with the closure of PPC's units, because until now only the old units have been shut down and shut down, which in any case could not continue. The challenge is Ptolemaida 5 and Melite, which are new. I would therefore conclude by saying that, in order to cover the transitional stage, the Government has put the clause of a fair transition into a number of immediate measures concerning the employment of citizens and the relief of those involved in lignite activities until the whole programme of the fair transition has been unfolded. So the transition from the lignite age to the green era is an issue that concerns the whole planet. It is, first of all, a European bet, since Europe is taking the lead over other international pollutants, such as China, India, Russia, Turkey, the USA, who are whistling indifferently. It is a national bet and we see that Greece is taking the lead in Europe, and we also see a Europe that is watching Greece and is ready to follow the model it applies, provided that it succeeds. We hope so, we believe, and that is why we are here today. I would once again point out that after Mr Tsipras' rise to Kozani, the curtain fell for all kinds of SYRIZA's micro-revolutionaries who have brought everything to their attention. Mr Tsipras, without promiseing anything specific, is essentially in line with the government's policy, since he has no alternative. So let the crocodile tears about non-democracy for insufficient time. I would say that today SYRIZA had to vote for the bill for two reasons. The first reason is the fundamental reason for the transition to the 'green' era, which he so much supports. But there is another serious reason, for reasons of guilt. Four and a half years you left the citizens in their luck, you had today to vote at least for the bill to fill this gap. We have heard - and I am closing the parenthesis of SYRIZA - of almost all the speakers talking about the 30 million and 60 million Hatzidakis who have become 30 and who have become 45 again. I believe everything in SYRIZA. But are you comparing SYRIZA's 60 million with the 370 million we only have for the transition? And we say it's very little. Is the SYRIZA's 60 million compared to the 6 or 7 billion that is the entire metalygineering program and you sit and support it, effectively squandering your own position? It's a big difference! In other words, with this argument you are actually supporting us all, and that is why you only had to vote for the 370 million and 6 billion. I oppose what the Management Authority Act, the Strategic Planning Directorate, the Observatory Directorate and the Legal Support Department, the "Transfer S.A." and the Transnational Company, all of which are done to shorten the time. Let me say, therefore, that in the transitional programme, which is very important and I am mainly addressing the citizens of western Macedonia, it is 107 million, half of which began to run for five and a half thousand jobs. It's the 150 million for the Amyntium, Ptolemais and Kozani teletherings. It is for 100% of the 40 million gas in Florina, to suspend the charging of the OHIM to the electricity that has recently been voted on, for the 8 million extra for young farmers. Of course, in my view, the top of the top is 70% plus funding, subsidies to new businesses, which will give immediate jobs from the end of 2022 and go to the beginning of 2023. There is something very important for our region. It is the integration of the funding of the studies of the two Bengoritis and Chamaditis irrigation networks, which have been demanded for decades by the people of Amyntaios and are now being taken. For decades there have been two scarecrows, the Begora mine, which has not been restored, and the Bee mine. Today, both are financed, and even they become inspiring green, rural, because they are being given to farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are many other things that unfortunately cannot be mentioned over time. I get to the epilogue. Ladies and gentlemen, in Florina and in western Macedonia world changes are being prepared. In order for the citizens of the whole country to understand better, when you tell Floriniotis that you will not in future deal with lignite, it is like telling the residents of Corfu, Rhodes and Mykonos that you will not be dealing with tourism again but with something else. We are therefore making a proposal to the government, because of the great crisis that exists at the moment, and we say that Melite's station has to operate beyond 2023 with three proposals: first, with lignite as long as this energy crisis holds. Once it stops, with biomass, and if it cannot be done, then it will continue to operate in natural gas. Why do we say that? Because those who are involved in PPC and are technocrats know that there are the high-voltage networks which cost the Greek people hundreds of millions. Instead of making new gas factories elsewhere and elsewhere, let's even become Melite's gas, because the installations are ready. It is a pity, therefore, to leave the region, but to remain and give a hundred and fifty jobs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that the government finally has a plan and resources and a political will to implement a fair transition. This bill is a small step towards facilitating and speeding up a fair transition, and I therefore urge you all to vote on it. Thank you very much. Happy birthday to those who celebrate!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr. Antoniadis. Mr Manos Voloudakis of the New Democracy is called to Stepma, and then the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport Mr.Michalis Papadopoulos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Papadopoulos, for his understanding of the order and time that he gives me. Let's start with the basics. We have in front of us a process of liberation which, according to both the government majority and the Civic Opposition, is for environmental and economic reasons. This process obviously has some cost for the areas where PPC’s lignite plants currently operate. For these areas, for the first time there is a coherent transition plan in the post-lignite period, in the post-lignite productive model, which is funded with EUR 7 billion. In fact, the transition plan does not only concern lignite-producing areas. It concerns both Crete and the islands. Because the Government also incorporated these areas into the European Union's Fair Transfer Fund, on the right grounds that electricity is produced in the islands from oil. What does that mean in practice? It means that, for both the islands and Crete, there will be special funding for the transition to a new production model. For example, state aid, such as the ones in development law, can increase to 70% from 45%, which is currently under the cult of final approval by the European Commission. But the necessary steps have been taken and we expect you, Minister, to tell us the good news soon, on the basis of the work you have already done. Greece became the first Member State to differ from the European Union in terms of per capita aid from the Fair Transfer Fund per capita of each mining region. We have 877 euros per inhabitant, when the average for the whole of Europe is 465 euros per inhabitant. This important role was played by the proper preparation of the relevant dossiers by the Steering Committee of the transition, which was established by our former Minister and former colleague Mr Konstantinos Mousouroulis. I am tabling the document "Project Progression Status" of the coordinating committee, which is posted on the website of the DSSM, because it is really worth mentioning here and studying the text to compare what happened before Greece and what is happening today. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Manosos - Konstantinos Voloudakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Immigration, as has already been said in this Chamber today, has not started now. Degreasing in practice, in the sense of reducing lignite energy production, has started before. In the days of SYRIZA we had a 54% reduction in this production. In the days, therefore, SYRIZA was given the areas affected by the reduction in the lignite production of EUR 60 million from the Green Fund. Then EUR 60 million, 7 billion today, that is 7 000 million, to make the difference quite clear. Still today, our Civic Opposition moves our finger. The bill we are debating today sets out the way in which the state will manage the transition with two basic structures: a special agency at the Ministry of Development and a public company, the "METAIS S.A.". On the substance of the matter, it is true that under other circumstances, in Europe and Greece, the transition to the new era, deprivation, and under other conditions, has been planned. The ongoing energy crisis reminds us that even today human capacity for long-term prediction is limited. Who could have imagined until a few months ago that the cost of generating electricity from lignite would be lower than the cost of production from natural gas, rather than the explosion in the cost of emissions? That's what's happening today. Thus, the production of energy from lignite and coal throughout Europe has increased, despite ongoing ligniteification programmes. This is happening, of course, because of the explosion in the gas price. Will these conditions be maintained at the price of natural gas? We all hope not. The European Commission also hopes for this and expressly states it. Unfortunately, however, the Commission is dealing with the issues associated with the famous Green deal with a dogmatic rigidity. This seems to be the case in the toolbox that it has proposed to the Member States to deal with the energy crisis, where a toolbox there is no measure to facilitate fundamental intervention on the winter energy market for the months to come, and that seems to be on the basis of the hope of reducing gas prices in the spring. But when we are planning policies, hopes cannot be a decisive factor. The markets are highly unforeseen. Policies should therefore also be designed with a degree of flexibility such as to allow adjustments to the latest data at any time. However, the energy plan needs such flexibility and adaptation. A lot of discussion has taken place these days as to whether defoliation should be pursued at the pace that is being pursued in our country or not. The truth is that a number of past choices over the past twenty years have gradually committed us to degreasing in a way that, two years ago, is indeed a one-way path, not only for environmental reasons, but also for economic reasons, degreasing. This is because, in lignite plants for decades, substantial investments in modernisation and environmental upgrading had not been made. That is a fact and that has led us to date. But PPC, the so-called Ptolemaida 5, is a different case - there is a factory that is different - as it has not yet been built. It is now built and incorporates the last word of industry technology. I believe that the conversion of this plant into natural gas should be reviewed in 2028, as foreseen, on the basis of the data that will prevail over the next few years. I would remind you that as much as we want renewable energy as we promote them - and rightly so - the RES has a great volatility. It takes hours which do not blow air, which the sun does not shine, to have a base production, which is normally from thermal plants - these are either natural gas or lignite - until at least we have the possibility of saving on economic terms that are provided for in a decade of today. Until then, we need base production. I have put forward an opinion on this issue and I should like to conclude by saying that this view is based on the need to diversify the energy mix in the country at any time and is also based on another simple idea, that these problems must be tackled with realism, common sense and good reason and not on dogmatism and on the occasional trends in the train which come and go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr Voloudakis. The Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Papadopoulos, is called in Stepma and Mrs. Notopoulou, from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, is invited.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill of great importance. Not only for me, for fellow Members representing western Macedonia or the lignite basin, which I like to say, Serbs, Kozani, Ptolemais, Amyntheus and Florina, but also for the Megalopolis, are an important bill, which concerns the whole country. After all, the visit by Prime Minister Mitsotakis to Kozani marked this, a few days ago, who, dear to you otherwise, did not just discuss or see the bodies, unlike the Chief of Staff, Mr. Tsipras, for an hour and a half, but for four hours. He talked to them, and it wasn't the first time. It really impresses me when I hear serious politicians saying things that do not apply. In addition to the consultation, which has been conducted with regional bodies, the region, municipalities, mayors and chambers, it is more than twenty times, beginning with Mr Hatzidakis, less Mr Skreka, much more than Mr Papathanassis and, of course, much more than the beginning of all this effort by Kostas Mousouroulis. And I say this because this new holistic model of governance for a fair transition really takes place after a great debate, after a lot of discussions. And I want to say congratulations to dear Nicos Papathanassis, because just August he took over this whole programme and within a few months he prepared a bill that really can stand with dignity towards the citizens. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I want your tolerance a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u284	My tolerance, but you're not in the Ministry. Five minutes, I gave you five minutes. Well, if you go any further, we won't sue you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u285	I will go through some of my logic, because the President is pushing me from what I see. Therefore, while continuing to consult with PPC, it was at regional level, at the level of the regions of Western Macedonia - Peloponnese, at the level of the municipalities, all this logic together with the profitable agreement with PPC, the arrangements made for district heating, providing for the establishment of a Trans-European Telecommunications Corporation, briefly on the public nature of the draft of the fair transition, but also on the development and founding of the necessary financial framework. Ladies and gentlemen, although the place is common to all, both for climate change and green agreement in Europe in 2050, the bill is introduced into plenary by voting on the Members of the ruling party, namely the New Democracy alone. The opposition is voting against, refuses to co-operate, and this is an unjust treatment for our regions and only for voting reasons. Because denial, populism at the time of a national political choice is an hour of responsibility and a game, if you wish, from the standpoint of the Refugee for the agony of our fellow citizens and their future, the future of their own region, while the draft of a fair transition and the bill we are talking about today, which concerns the country as a protagonist and the European partners, if you want, not only solves problems, but mainly re-establishes the country in the European and global space as a pioneer and protagonist. I would like to tell you that I really heard SYRIZA's colleagues speaking about what happened yesterday. Do you want to remember what happened yesterday? We all end up and know that defoliation doesn't start today. You've said it almost most of them. What did we do in eighteen months? The SDP, the territorial, all this infrastructure that has been built up. There was a deliverable project. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you've been divorced for what it has to do with a deliverable. We often hear it in the House that 'we had prepared it, but did not deliver', that 'we did not have time for it'. Once again you say that today. Second of all, you've booked the unit of the Heart, the one and the two. Who shut it down? SYRIZA shut these units down. New Democracy shut them down? When did they close? You made a contest to sell the units. Anybody interested? Nobody. What do you want to tell us? What don't you understand? What do you want? To mislead the people of our region and the people of all of the country, who cannot know what is happening in Kosani, in Florina, in Megalopolis? In 2015 to 2019 the reduction of lignite in use for energy production was continuous. What did you do about it? Unemployment existed, indirectly or directly. What did you do? What do we do? We are planning and creating a programme for the recruitment of unemployed by the OAED. We've solved the problems of television heaters and we're going on. There's planning. You didn't do any of this, and you were four and a half years government, and today you're coming to move our hand? These things can't be done. And citizens, whether or not they agree, whether or not they are convinced of what we want to do or not, because this is a matter of our own, that is to say, the government, that they must begin to appear to ordinary citizens, that they do not only have to look at the plans, that the actions which are being prepared and prepared, but that cannot be convinced of them. Whatever you do, you can't convince them. In conclusion, Mr President, in order not to trouble you any more, I would like to refer to the initial, tabled opinion from the outset on the cold reserve. None of us from government today say that the lignite we are talking about today is the one that gives energy security to the country. That is why it was rightly said that lignite, all units operated in March, all units operated in August. We know. This is the case today, and that is why the Government and PPC have proposed for the cold reserve, which means that the unit working in a cold reserve pays the European Commission, the Competitiveness Commission and whenever necessary, for national reasons, can work. This is still true, that lignite is the security of the country. But that's what we want to stop. That is why all the other sources of energy are being developed to get out of this logic. In conclusion, I would like to say that, along with all this, I could not mention all the design we are completing for the logistics chain, in which I am involved as the State Secretary at the Interministerial Committee with the Presidency of Nikos Papathanassis. Because this also plays a very important role. We are planning to draw up specific urban plans that define land use, land restoration and return to local society. Ladies and gentlemen, there are opportunities, tools. The consequences will be diluted. The lignite, as we were raised for seventy years, will still be the one to withdraw it, which will be the reason why we will be fruitful for the next generations. And this is due to Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the pioneering of the country's Prime Minister and the New Democracy and its Government to be the first country in Europe to speak of carbonisation. You're the ones holding on to the trenches. You play with the souls of the world, their emotions in a portion of the people, and that is leniently unacceptable. We document the opportunities, we want the participation and your participation, the participation of all in this work that is done, because this work has no color or we want it to be coloured. You are forced and shown that color is one. We want the participation of all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u286	Close this, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u287	And I shall close, Mr President, with one question. All my fellow Members except for the lignite areas you have spoken today, do you think that you have a greater interest than we live in this area? That you have greater ethos than us who associate with the people in the region, who have our relatives, our friends, our fellow citizens? Of course not. Believe me, of course not. We believe this exercise, we want it to have a positive effect and it will have a positive effect. And we're also trying to reduce the time of lignite and the time after lignite. This is the substance that will highlight and bring about the result, creating again jobs from those lost - because they are being lost and we have never hidden it - by creating a better day for the next generations that come, a better day than the one that Kozani, Florina and Megalopolis have today. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. For the Minutes, I should like to refer to the amendments that are accepted. It is the general number 1163 and has a special number 97 of the Ministry of Development and Investment, the general number 1164 and with a special 98 of the Ministry of Labour, the general number 1165 and the special number 99 of the Ministry of Health, the general number 1166 and the special number 100 of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, or the general number 1167 and the special number 101 of the Ministry of Development. I am also tabling the legislative improvements, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u290	Very good. Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Notopoulou is called to Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, once again, you are legislating with fast track procedures on such a crucial issue. Two and a half years after the announcements, the very many promises, the very big words do not see any plan, neither strategic nor developmental, nor sustainability for the local society, nor energy adequacy, nor green transition, nor growth. So many days our rapporteur, the Parliamentary spokesman, the Members of the Vice-President, have completely restored your hypocritical so-called green, supposedly a development account. Your intentions are already evident. They reveal day after day. You have already succeeded in ejecting unemployment, adding three and a half thousand unemployed, while leaving society completely unprotected in the face of shamefulness and precision. Your only anxiety is in fact the privatisation of electricity generation. You are not even following the European Regulation on a fair transition, but you are talking about a good example. You have underestimated consultation and participation, you have left all local actors and those involved, you are neither with local society nor democracy. You are constantly underestimating the parliamentary procedure, of course, along with the citizens' intelligence, and that is what your amendments show. I shall refer to them because, as our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative have said earlier, they have raised all the issues of the bill with particular emphasis. In relation to the amendment on the payment of exceptional financial support to the first-line health workers, we call for public health supervisors, who are also serving at the central agency of the Ministry of Health, but also at hospitals, regions, municipalities, aeronautical department, to be included. I will pass on to the amendment by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Article 5, which you tabled to this bill, which extends the provision of the fifty times for the regular work allowance applicable to food, tourism and other seasonal professions. You're not clarifying anything, you don't solve anything once again. Until what these "other seasonal professions" were told by the State Secretary a little earlier and yesterday by leaks and press releases. It is certainly not in the amendment. A good intention, you did well. But it was too late and you expanded the regular subsidy. But here, we have a regulation that is suffering and you also add other branches and other employment categories to this regulation, without solving the problems that we have tried to solve with our amendments. And to refresh your memory a little, for what is played is the bread of two hundred thousand people. You probably haven't realized. Not even twenty days go to a bill from the Ministry of Rural Development, which we tabled two amendments, attempting to solve the main problems, listening to the demands of working people in tourism and foodism, who cannot get the regular unemployment benefit. What did you do? You rejected them. How did you reject them? No explanation. What did the Undersecretary say today? Not included. Two hundred thousand employees in tourism and foodstuff have no income because of the government and its inability. Our first amendment concerned those employed in tourism and food professions, which, for the first time, are calling for people to receive a regular unemployment subsidy to which they are entitled. Completion of the necessary number of characters is obviously impossible. We are asking for what is the case with the rest of the people who come out of unemployment benefits. In other words, lower the signals from a hundred to fifty for 2021 and fifty to eighty for the previous two years. You turned it down. Second amendment. We have proposed that the trademarks of the unilateral suspensions of the years 1920 and 1921 should be counted for the grant of the regular unemployment subsidy that has not occurred, and that they should not appear in the ECA system, with the absolute responsibility and fault of your Government, the Ministry of Labour. Tourism workers, food, are victims of this incompetence, and they are also the victims of your obsession to constantly deceive the services of the ECA. Two years, then, seasonal workers, mostly, expect to show these meanings. I am not talking about 2021, but also about 2020. Today, then, they do not receive unemployment benefits. There have been huge problems, neither the benefits of the FBI nor the benefits, they cannot write to children in kindergartens, they cannot be retired. Finally! Didn't you urge these workers to enter a unilateral parole? The state became an employer and became a bad employer. And you're still punishing them today? In rejecting our amendments, in order to reach agreement, the government has once again revealed the hard, unaltered face toward the world of work. Do you really know what desperation will say, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Do you know what these people can't make this month? And not only do they, the whole of the Greek society, live between their power conglomerates and the supermarket? Don't show up like that because of your government's inability, don't get the unemployment benefit and can't bring income to their homes and get close to Christmas? Well, you're mocking without a limit, cynicism, seasonal tourist workers, food with your attitude. And today you prove what we all already know is very conscious that you're turning their backs. Very consciously you let the problem perpetuate. This is your government's thanks to the people who have put back on tourism, so that you can take on tourist revenues. You consciously leave two hundred thousand people, not Christmas, to be unable to survive in their everyday lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mrs Notopoulou, and respect for the time. Giorgos Amanatidis from New Democracy is called in Stepma and Mr Charalambos Papademitriou from New Democracy is being prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Papathanassis, on this occasion let me add to what you have heard about the draft law and the very important work you have done and those who know that it is an integrated, holistic approach to the issues of project management. I should also like to add that I also welcome the honourable Members who are here. Starting with, I would like to say that the energy transition serves, as is well known, the objective of climate neutrality in 2050. Our country is, of course, part of a global effort. It is also at the forefront of other states, since the national climate and energy plan provides for full liberation by 2028 and thus a 55% reduction in emissions from 1990. To make this possible, what does it need? A strong political will, and indeed at the highest level. This strong political will was expressed by the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in 2019 from the step of the UN General Assembly. Shortly before the Paris Agreement, 2015, which was signed in 2016. In other words, the road to these issues was opened, and that is why those who say they did not know were wrong. Since 2019, however, the implementation of all precursors has been unfolding, so that the transition to the new regime is accelerated. In addition, the goal was and is to focus on the local communities, which have been supported for many years, but also supported by PPC. At the same time, this transition should be fair to the areas which are called upon to develop their productive model into a new model, which will offer jobs and income, in a natural environment completely different, with better, that is, living conditions and a differentiated economic base, capable of keeping people in their place. These areas should therefore be placed at the centre of policies. So this effort must and is a national effort. What are the conditions for this national effort now? First of all, the existence of a central objective, the vision. It was formulated by the Prime Minister. Our programmes and our strategy appear on the master plan, which has already been approved and is the product of continuous consultation. And let me say at this point that those who do not usually participate in the consultation say that it has not been done. With regard to the sources of funding, our country, precisely because of the decision on the forward implementation of the transition programme, has paved much more resources in proportion. Mr Voloudakis said earlier, EUR 877 per resident in the region, when at European Union level it is EUR 450. It also incorporated the transition strategy, as a national strategy - which I said earlier - and this was reflected in the formulation of the NSRP 2021 - 2027, where this strategy appears as a distinct axis. Of course, there should be incentives for this transition. The recent law, which we have passed, the development law that is to be passed, the law on public works in the areas of liberation and this draft law, which will become law, actually reflect that the government is not only planning, but also giving all the necessary tools to ensure that this transition is smooth and as soon as possible. And, of course, a system of administration is also needed that is effective and that leads to the objective being achieved. What's the target? As I said earlier, it is the smooth development transition. This administrative system includes all phases from design, programming, implementation of procedures, interfaces and implementation of the National Plan for Fair Development. Now, more specifically, I'd like to emphatise a few issues of the draft law. The Special Service for Fair Development is set up in the field of organisation and administration. It's an autonomous ending service 31-12-2032. This service will ensure the design, implementation, monitoring of the EWRS Fair Development Goal 2021 - 2027. This service is composed of individual sections and I am pleased to hear that the Minister has expressed the view that these services, and especially those relating to the Observatory, will have a local presence in the areas of defoliation. I should also like to stress that the commander of this special service will be the result of a decision by the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible. Here is another sample that the issue of defoliation has reached the highest level and has become a genuine national strategy and a priority, of course, of paramount importance. It is planned to serve this service with twenty people and is described as the way in which this service is to be performed. Project evaluation committees are set up. Mobility is envisaged for the implementation of projects carried out in transition areas. It is recommended that the Hellenic Society of Fair Development Transfer, the “METAVICATION S.A.”. It is a body governed by public law, with what this means in the way of operation, staffing, etc. Here too, it is very positive that the Minister will now be able to contribute, beyond other bodies, and with contracting entities. In relation to the arrangements for special town plans, there are real possibilities of land use belonging to PPC. Priority is also envisaged for RES projects in the areas of defoliation, in order for the objective of defoliation to be progressed. The Interdepartmental Television Company of the settlements is being set up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Excuse me, Mr. President. I won't be long.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u294	Keep going. You're from the area, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u295	Thank you. The establishment of this company is what I and my partners have believed in the previous years, that thermal energy as a public good must be able to be transported and supplied to consumers when they need it. This is therefore a public undertaking provided for in this draft law. The rest of the district heating companies will do what they've done so far. I would also like to say something very important, which has also been discussed in my area, in the Kosani Prefecture. There is provision for a regulation that regions which have been expropriated for public benefit, which are the production of the public good of electricity, may now be used for other productive, business or other activities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is understood that the Prime Minister's decision in 2019 mobilised a series of procedures and a series of tools. We respect the needs of the local communities affected. We are prioritised to changing the production model. We want and protect the environment. We are calling for and we are talking about local communities in order to be actively involved. So we want to create a more optimistic and more housing-friendly future and work-friendly. I stress - it has been heard earlier - that the process of liberation is not new. It started in ten years. If you look at the activities, the recruitments, the turnover that PPC has in the area, it seems very clear about this matter. I would also like to tell you that last five years we have had a 55% reduction, as has already been mentioned, and a job losses, without doing anything at all. No initiative. It has also been mentioned that we are talking about EUR 1.7 billion from the European Support Facility, which can by leverage reach EUR 7 billion, and we certainly compare them to the EUR 60 million of the fair transition. Let me also add that those who have thought that deflation is about others are now aware that they are concerned. Those who knew in previous years and who have been responsible for this, because they have not prepared the area for what they will follow. The government and the Prime Minister have proved to be difficult. They looked into reality. They decided on something that should already be under way from previous years. With vision, then, with a plan, we are aiming to do the project of transition to liberation and, at the same time, we are focusing on development policies in all those areas affected by liberation. I am therefore voting in favour of this draft law, as is normal, because it actually reflects reality and answers the real needs of regions and citizens. Let me end by adding - by appreciating your tolerance, Mr President - that there was a reference made by a previous speaker to the fact that 'the television heaters in the region did not even go ahead'. That was the expression. At the moment Ptolemais is heated by the new lining of the electrodes that operate. The task of connecting remote heating Ptolemaida to Ptolemais 5 is in progress. PPC has bid the 100m euros project for the heat cogeneration unit that will interconnect all the district heats. It will therefore be good in this Chamber to hear truths and real facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. As you have noticed, I am a little elastic to colleagues from the region. Of course, I am generally elastic, but I think they deserve it. Mr Charalambos Papademitriou from New Democracy is being called to the fore and Mr Constantine Bluchos from New Democracy is being called.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Mr President. We must at some point agree on what is self-evident. I'm allowed to speak as a resident of the capital, and we have a reason to talk, because it's literally us who consumes what's going on up there. But I must say to the Qualified Opposition that when you realize that you have lost, instead of saying 'no', you must try to get more positive. Why get away from what humanity has put forward, get rid of coal, is out of the question. You had the opportunity. You had no obstacle. The Memorandum didn't put any obstacles to it. They all told you to do it, follow what all nations do. My colleague said so, and the Paris Agreement has already been very clear. Micropolitical and populism prevented you. But more recently, in this at least, you had the time to adjust. Because you saw that when the Prime Minister went to the UN and said so, it was a commitment now from the country. What does it mean to go against something that the country has now committed itself and which, I suppose, you cannot say that you do not want to. So this is a schizophrenic situation in which the Civic Opposition falls, without even seeing the opportunity. What's the chance? All the other things the New Democracy colleagues have said very well, and the ministers have said so. I don't have much to add. I have nothing to add. I just have one thing to highlight. Here we have a chance to say that Greece is capable of restoring the name as a country that has ideas, has boldness and manages it. So we have a problem, which for many years now seemed to come to a point that we will not be able to go further. He was gonna finish the coal. It's not just that lignite's not in any interest is that it's over. The Members who are in the region who are elected - who are going to do this - know it, and the Minister, as other colleagues urge him - know that the quality of lignite, coal, that is, because coal is, is not enough already. The quantities are not sufficient. That's what you should have solved. You should have done it as political and ideological. And yet you didn't do anything. Proof that Adonis Georgiadis took you and told you properly. And not anything else, but he said things I wanted to say, and he got me ahead of me. We have a plan first and we have a plan for the first time. You want a change? There you are, everywhere you are. Say them. We have a company and a skilled man in charge of taking it and taking it down. And we have - and this is very important and should not be omitted - a cleansed PPC, which has returned to positive results, has money in its funds, has a plan compatible with the state's plan for what needs to be done in the lignite areas, because PPC does not abandon electricity, and I also think it is doing very well. Electricity is the fuel of the future. How we can secure him is what we need. But it is another question of electricity, another issue of production. We gave - rightly given home - free of charge the coal so that the country can develop. That's right. We gave and got those lands. However, we condemned a huge area - not just dependent on lignite, it is not the subject - that is, an area that has scary potential and has been so many decades as forgotten. No one was coming through the area. If the Egnatia Street wasn't done, people wouldn't come by to see what this area is like. It would never be enough to see her how important she is, how beautiful she is, how loaded she is with abilities, opportunities and history heavy. You simply continued on the line 'Let it be better, it's all black'. I think, therefore, that the important thing we have to do now, and that is why it is important that this so-called 'greatering' effort - we have to find another name - is to highlight the region of western Macedonia, the Megalopolitan region, which had a similar fate, but also the areas on the islands, where it was the dirty oil station, in Crete, which remained on this dependency and burdened itself, as well as the rest of us. This effort will highlight the ability to make Greece a trademark, a bright example of what you can achieve when you get an area left over by people, by mistakes, unfortunately, party tactics and make it and show it to something else. As long as you go to the vineyards in the area to see how people's effort, the private initiative, managed to highlight this area, because for these reasons we visited it, beyond some other historians, who are very important as well. So we have given the fact that natural gas will be the fuel of the transition, with all adventures that we are going to pull and live now. I think and hope that the Prime Minister's talks with the President of Russia will be beneficial and that what was done in 1980 will be repeated, and then the effort has been criticised, that is to say, to connect to gas. Gas is Russian in Europe. What can we do? I think that this will also enable us to achieve the plan you have put forward and serve, Minister, with your proposal here, which we are obviously voting in favour of. So let's see it positive and let's get the next generation involved. I cannot imagine the children of the people who worked for the lignite wanting to get back into the mines. Let's give them another chance. That is our duty, and that is what we will do. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u298	We also thank you for keeping time, Mr Papadimitriou. Mr. Konstantinos Blouchos from New Democracy, Draminos, is called in Stepma, and Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides, the other Kozanidis from New Democracy, is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister speaks pre-electionally and immediately after the elections on liberation and on the rectification of the dissolved PPC, broken up by the SYRIZA government, with no value on your days, not the largest company in Greece, not the same Greece. I was thinking of the political honesty of people like Mr. Georgiades and like Mr. Papathanassis, who, with the simplest Greek, with disarming arguments, without heavy philosophies, are using rationalism, without incomprehensible economic figures, explain what defoliation is, what investment in renewable energy is in the design of the transition, looking into the eyes of all those who are right to fight and feel uncertain about their future. You spoke of violent adaptation, ladies and gentlemen. When problems are neglected, when they are not properly and timelylyly reflexes, when we are not cultivating a fertile predisposition for years, when we are not looking for proper preparation for years, when we choose procrastination and repulsiveness in decision-making or lack of national strategic planning, then, yes, for some like you are violent. Who? The need to come face to face with the concern that is causing the size of such a project. This is a classic indicator of permanent left-handness. And I will borrow a phrase from Constantine Karamanlis, but with an absolute performance of your opposition practice: "In our place we have the habit of discussing a lot, so that we do not make decisions which imply responsibility." The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, committed to the national targeting, consistent with its choices, proceeds to push legislative with courage and braveness and assumes its responsibilities, its debt to the place. You hide yourself. ‘No to wind turbines’ was said by a special speaker “in NATURA areas, which prick the natural environment”. He is in favour of degreasing with active maintenance of lignite use until it is pleasing in the same program of climate restoration and non-privation of PPC and its facilities in western Macedonia. Confusion. How is the electricity produced? Not the wind turbines, not the lignite, not the hydrogen. Three no, three denials, barren conclusion. Mr Varoufakis, otherwise delightful, has always talked about 'newacidification' and 'green' laundry, speaking of 'newcollips' and 'newoas' - I would say - in the transition and 'newings' with Europeans. And I resurrect from the recent past objections against a particular investment that destroys the environment, rabies warfare, despite the profitable investment that offers jobs to hundreds of people in this region, while in the present question against defoliation, which, however, has moved to 54% in five-year-old SYRIZA. But, Mr. Cairides, you may have invoked the threatened climatic collapse and been ridiculed by the present. Here we are dealing with the SYRIZA water conduit, because it seems that its ideological energy reserves have been exhausted. I'm trying to unravel and discern the phases in which the government then handed over its work. The first was the phase of the disastrous negotiation, with the incredible display of amateurism and lightness. The third phase was the period of the last few months, where it was distinguished for the hasty overlegislation. Good or bad, it happened very quickly, under conditions of psychological panic. But your entire four years have taken place, which was distinguished by the automatic pilot of "as if it were." And PPC was diluted. And, of course, your Memorandum Obligations did not come out with any real development effort, only overtaxation and PPC in the victories that you condemned. And now? Now you're reversing reality. The Minister tells you three objective facts: The lignite plants and the government's decision to close do not affect today's energy price increases because they work. Lignite plants are economically inconsistent, so the economic logic of their closure is absolutely self-evident and necessary. Half of more and more lipotization has already been done on SYRIZA, but without any measures being taken, no organised effort to defend the socio-economic impacts on local society. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, and especially the Greater One in many cases, the most skepticist of Mr.Mitsotakis finds that with such consistent words and works of the opposing parties, with such adoption of irrationalism and the concealment of the truth, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis clearly covers an undeniable need: and the privilege of the initiative, and the advantage of effective and credible political power. They are the foundations and the establishment of a national vision, because this is the case, a vision of thousands of citizens, who, yes, feel concerned, but with one thing that we are now making great decisions, difficult, but useful to our country and our fellow citizens. And this has a great signature, Mr Famele: Mitsotakis. You should stop doing both the apostles and the prophets, the risky destructive or the left - hand mourners. And, of course, the country, gentlemen of Ellas, and problems cannot wait for the KINAL - PASOK procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, now, Mr President, any horses, or illogically or even fertilely, if you wish, are tolerated for the management of the pandemic. But also, because I share the indignation of the Minister of Health today, we have resorted to an incredible 'Methology' - forgive me the unworthy term or neology - which has flooded public dialogue. I am disappointed by the fact, regardless of anyone's motives. We do not honestly understand how bad it is and how much it is that of our fellow citizens. And I don't understand what was said about closed ICUs and VIPs. It is incomprehensible for me to accept that they can be treated as health professionals. At some point they have to get some limits on some things. But let me come back to it at the moment. Mr President, I ask for your tolerance. Green energy is a one-way road, and it is certainly not something that arises from zero nor is it happening quickly. It is a process that aims at strategic investment in key sectors by country, so that there is a reduction in the energy footprint as a whole. Clearly, it's not without any problems, but that's why there's the coordinate state to give solutions where it needs to be. The problem is to you, who are not one voice, one logic, at least one of points of view. And on the basis of everything I have heard, I wonder whether any management model can be a priori and in advance denounced as ineffective? The distortions of the administration, which, despite the reforms, still exist, should not be circumvented? Austerity, genericity, permanent denomination, what does it mean, apart from deregulation of responsibilities? Is a fair transition from lignite to green energy exclusively conditions and conditions of overcompensation? And if inconsistencies are assumed in a long-term design, is bet not always flexibility and adaptability? And if we are troubled by the model of your alleged multi-archy, why should multi-participation not concern us in shaping terms and conditions on a complex and so specific issue? Paradoxicals, ladies and gentlemen. In terms of retardation, there is no recognition of the manifest importance and the urgent necessity and the threat of energy slippage, unless they choose fertile strategies. The climate crisis is a huge wound to the planet, and there is no time to stay on board. This is not a natural biological process and there is no luxury of infinite time, which is an identifiable feature of your processes. The disproportionate size of the problem requires even greater and better ideas, strategies and tactics and so we have announced, by banning oil engines in new cars, much earlier than other countries, by subsidising electric cars and others. The argument by a colleague for energy prices today is what is called 'composition error', i.e. by discerning the transient energy growth today on a microeconomic scale, you think that in the future it will remain the same, so at macroeconomic level it will remain at nightmare levels nowadays. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis is transient. Secondly, it's not only Greek, it's global. And thirdly, climate change is in itself a macroeconomic threat that requires our proper preparation, especially because we have this crisis today. The one that comes is a huge dimension and doesn't pick up micro-political tactics. It is impossible to talk about such a serious issue with such unspeakable arguments. And do not rely on the complexity and complexity of the matter to take advantage of, like gas replacement. Yeah, it's a move that right now is better, based on the existing circumstances. And all RES is in the right direction. But that requires new infrastructure and an improvement in existing infrastructure, which has many decades to do in this country. It is Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government that has actively started these structural changes. If you want to be with the right part of the story, the opportunity is here. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u300	Be well, Mr. Bluehoe. Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy is called in Stepma and Emmanuel Konsolas is also being prepared by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are being renounced by the Qualified Opposition. He was accuseing us until yesterday because we were supposed to have no plan. We are being renounced today that she does not like the plan we have tabled. It also accuses us of having been late in these two years and a month since the Prime Minister of the country from the UN step set the timetable for the transition and not for liberation, which has indeed been running for fifteen years. But, Mr. Femmelle, have you submitted a plan of governance? Have you filed a master plan? Have you submitted any territorial plans better than what we've submitted? Have you submitted specific investment incentives for the area better than the ones submitted by the Deputy Minister present, to choose those? From this alone the fact seems to be investing in a sterile opposition, which eventually turns you boomerang. So coal, the treasure. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the lignite was a wish and a curse for us. He gave jobs, lived generations, studied children, brought in the know-how area, helped upgrade, improve our standard of living. On the other hand, it caused environmental degradation, created reassurance in the local society, encouraged the restless and creative citizen of the country, the local and refugee population, with strong business and commercial instincts, with labour and households. Ladies and gentlemen, lignite has not only changed the productive model of western Macedonia, but also the culture and the relief of the country. Minister, you showed some pictures of your location. Lakes, fertile fields, villages destroyed. Thirty years ago in the photo you showed, there was my village, Klitos Kozanis, and he was relocated. To date, since the inadequacy of the governments over time, of the blockade and bureaucracy, this village still does not have a cemetery, as other villages have basic, fundamental shortcomings in their infrastructure. Live societies have been rooted out and in place huge mines have been created. But because today we have to say things by their name, speaking the language of truth, the place has been - and not today - first in unemployment and last in competitiveness and extroversion. I have the evidence from ELSTAT. In 2019, the first quarter was not ruled by New Democracy, Mr. Famele. The first quarter of 2019 is already the first Western Macedonia to unemployment at the time. Genoa - PPC Complaint on 8-2019 was not governed by the New Democracy at the time: "In the air a thousand five hundred jobs", ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response. Somebody's gonna say, but, well, didn't you see the end? Oh, no. But that is what governments are responsible for. When a few years ago, the construction of a lignite plant of 1,2 billion euro was decided, when the “small” PPC was sold to private individuals, which in the portfolio had inside and lignite units, when SYRIZA promised a ligniteation horizon of 15 and 20 years and discussed with Chinese for the construction of a new lignite plant and the signatures of PPC fell with Chinese CMEC in 2016, this was your ligniteation. Do you know what it was? When in 2019 you voted for the sale of four lignite stations to individuals. Why did you give them to private people? So you can turn them off? No, because you didn't know. You stepped on two boats. You wanted to close your eye on local communities. So, in these circumstances, with this data, the resident in the region believed that the end of the coal was coming fast? So it's not just that we gave our guts for the electricity and industrialisation of the country. There was no honest state attitude and an early warning, an update, a programme for the preparation of the tsunami to be caused by the climate crisis. And let it be the only periphery that does not rain from the sea. And the greatest responsibility for this lies with the Tsipras government, because during her period, Mrs Perka, the non-competitive domestic lignite was clearly seen, but Mr Tsipras preferred to fill with PPC deficits, rather than make responsible decisions. And they might want some today to hide the truth. The honourable Member said earlier that after her election the new government boldly presented its programme. No, the exact fact is, he did it before the election. SYRIZA's rapporteur dared to refer to the presence of current Prime Minister in Florina in May 2019. So I read what Mr. Mitsotakis said at the time. You'll hear it all, word-selection. "We will support PPC. We agree on the need to save the largest enterprise in the country, which is depreciated.’ That's what he said. "The post-lining era will not come from one moment to the next, because the lignite remains the fuel that supports the country's energy production,...."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Comrade, I... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u303	Mrs. Perka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u304	"...but it will be a sin, in fact, not to be able to claim, as many European countries do, resources that will help move an entire region to a new energy model." The Prime Minister spoke a month before the elections. "Here we have the networks, here we have the technical staff." Listen to an honest attitude. "My dream would be the largest installation of photovoltaic in Greece to take place in the areas of PPC. Where we used to make lignite, now to take clean energy and thus give new jobs to people who may feel that their future is being threatened. So we are here to support societies in this transition." That's what he said. Where and when did he say it? A month, in western Macedonia, before the elections. He gave a decade horizon in 2019 for 2028 and applied what he said. So who was telling the truth and who was lying? Did Mitsotakis or Tsipras, when he disinvested, give four lignite units, or when his recent visit to Kosani said that the government had resulted in sudden death of lignite units? Really, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, did Mr. Mitsotakis close to this day? Mr. Famelle, Mrs. Perka, did Mitsotakis close a PPC unit?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u305	The Ammonium.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u306	No, the amphetino is closed. Mrs. Perka, I'm talking to evidence. ‘The European Union shall definitively close the Amydino, 15 February 2018. With a unilateral extension, he was working by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u307	Please don't have a dialogue. And don't you, Mr. Constantinidis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u308	This Regulation shall enter into force on the ‘Titles of ending for Ammonium by PPC’. We weren't ruling, Mr. Famelle and Mrs. Perka. Did you, however, have any provision for those who were working in these units, whether they were PPC workers, whether they were contractors or eight-months, for the impairment suffered by lignite production during your term of office? Let me remind you: 55% on your day. You received the lignite activity in 2014 at 22,000 GWh. You delivered it in 2019 at 10,400. Did you do anything about that loss? But you want to tell us something? When do you think the lignite plants should be shut down?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u309	Yesterday!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u310	Well done, Mrs. Perka. It's an honorable thing to do. That's your position, that you want to close yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u311	With a plan. How about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u312	So the government says in 2023. You say yesterday. Do you know why you're doing this? That's what the former Prime Minister, your Chief, did on his visit. Because you know that the units are injurious. Because you know that they stay out of the system because of the cost. Why do you know that PPC... [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't laugh. It's serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u313	You're not serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u314	Because you know that PPC, you confessed to it in the Committee, Mrs Perka, is obliged by competition to sell to its competitors below costs. Is that true or false, Mrs. Perka?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u315	Please, Mr Constantinidis, do not engage in dialogue, do not cause. Say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u316	You know what Mr Tsipras said on 29 July 2020? 'I wish we could finish immediately'. But if we agree on the time of rehab from lignite, then what do we disagree with? The time the preparation should have started. That is what we tell you, you should have prepared the country and the regions for what is going to happen, but you did not. You know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, mainly in western Macedonia, what have the Members of your party voted for in the recent climate law? They voted to accelerate carbon decompliment by lignite. That's what they voted on. Other things you say in Europe and other things you say in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u317	Does the Minister agree with what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u318	Do you disagree, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u319	Close, Mr. Constantinidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u320	Is the theater of irrationality going on a long time in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Femmelle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u322	They voted against climate law, why did they want higher targets? Yes or no? Answer me, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u323	Close, Mr. Constantinidis, and don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u324	But close to everything else, ladies and gentlemen, especially those from the region, you are involved in this whole case and Akrini, in which for four and a half years it has been a settlement, which, while the state had committed itself to its relocation, did not do so to this day. In the Akrini for four and a half years you have not put a stone on this issue, but you have the courage today to come and leave the current government, and in your term PPC withdrew an expropriation that was necessary for the development of the relocation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u325	And close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u326	Last of all. Mrs Perka said that New Democracy allegedly reduced resources from the Green Fund for the region. "We had," he says, "we approve 6%, Hatzidakis did it 1% and Screkas came and did 4.5%." Mrs. Perka...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u327	Don't cause. Leave her alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u328	6% of yours was more or less in absolute numbers than 4.5% of Mr. Screka? It was much less, Mrs. Perka. The 4.5% of Mr Skreka today corresponds to 50 million. Finally, you're talking about interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Constantinidis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u330	Is there a greater interest in the competitor than buying less electricity from PPC and resale it to citizens, to individuals, to consumers? Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you all this to understand that you are making a very big mistake and that this policy is against the interests of our country and our country. Abandon this attitude, then, and write into the government’s effort to raise, win the lost time of all previous years and put forward positive proposals. We are here to claim their fulfillment by a responsible government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u331	Thank you very much, Mr Constantinidis. Twice a year you talked, you abused. You're from the area, of course. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, I am necessarily taking my teratology as a parliamentary representative, although the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and to us personally - I mean to the rapporteur but also to the rapporteur - is also going to use my position as a parliamentary representative, because the Minister must also clarify, if he talks at the end, something that has literally confused us. We understand the anxiety of the New Democracy MPs in the lignite regions. But we do not sympathize with them because they have created the deadlocks towards society, in which they have to be apologised and judged. That is why they have this tension and this absurdity many times in what they say. But, from their position, because they're trying to drop everything at SYRIZA, a question arises. They blame us for closing lignite units because of SYRIZA, or why don't lignite units close? Because we hear strange things. And for one thing they blame us, and for the other they blame us. So does the New Democracy Parliamentary Group ultimately agree with the frustration or not? Because we see Members standing against, says, SYRIZA, because it closed the lignite plants and calls for extensions and amendments in our hands. We don't make this impression game Mr. Georgiadis did, we want to help our country seriously. It is not a serious government, but we must stay serious. We are then blamed for why our European Parliamentary Group wants more demanding objectives in Europe. So let's make it clear so you know what our position is. The government of SYRIZA - I have tabled them, you were not here, you are not reading, you are okay, you are, but in any case - has asked the House in writing, we have signed it with Mrs Perka and other Members, who made it very early in 2019, and we wrote you what we did to Councils of Ministers, what we created or forced to do in 2017 and 2018, how the World Bank came here, what exactly did we do with the National Energy and Climate Plan, the Fair Transfer Fund and the commitment of Alexis Tsipras to the Council in June 2019 on climate neutrality. Let me remind you that the New Democracy, until then opposition, had not been placed on climate neutrality and Mr Mitsotakis, I think, arrived at the exhibition, after the elections, to say so, had not said so. But he told Florinna about PPC and we have it written in the press releases. But now we have to say something very specific. In the 2019 report Alexis Tsipras asked about liberation and said: Even tomorrow we agree with liberation, on three conditions. The first condition is energy security in the country. Do you have it in a way, like, proof? Oh, no. On the contrary. You bind us to imported fuel. Secondly, the cost of energy for production, for households, for energy poverty. Have you done it? Oh, no. And thirdly, the fair transition of the lignite regions. Have you succeeded? Oh, no. Three and a half thousand unemployment posts are in the area. So you cannot blame SYRIZA for opening up in a difficult memorial period the bankruptcy of the country that you have created, the way to the issue of climate policy. In 2016, the Paris Agreement came to this plenary and was approved by a SYRIZA government. But you need to see your own responsibilities. We are clear about the environmental climate trace. And yes, we in the European Parliament called for a much more demanding programme for 2030 and for the Fit for 55. And we asked for 60% and 65%. We don't have a problem with our green identity. The question is how the New Democracy can use defoliation as a motto to write some communication benefits for Mr Mitsotakis, destroy the lignite regions and leave them completely unprotected and citizens, and at the same time, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to make agreements with private gas companies and commit electricity generation for decades to a fossil, imported and expensive fuel. That's why we blame you. Game you do with the frustration communication, hypocritical and you deprive Greece of the right to be competitive and green. Because you're not going to take this off schedule. The IPTO is now asking you to put delusional units in order to be adequate. This is Greece's real problem. That's why we're saying you're the country's problem. Why, in order to defend something that does not come out of the region - and it is your fault that it does not come out, we could all turn back on becoming lignite quickly, so you dynamite it yourself - they come out and blame us and why we are demanding and why we have lignite. So what are we? In the end, you will tell us that we are to blame because Mr Mitsotakis went without his ministers knowing about it to the UN and said something he had no plan. Because the announcement of frustration of 2019 was an initiative of communication, for which SYRIZA was not the fault. You know, SYRIZA isn't the problem in Greece. The problem is the inhabitants of the lignite regions. It's not their fault, Mr. Papathanasis. And they have the problem today. And for them, we have this anxiety. So let this absurdity be blamed for all of SYRIZA. SYRIZA is in Opposition two years and a few months. You're the government. Can you prove a new job? Can you prove a new investment? Have you reached the point with resources that we left to you in the Fund and prepared FEK with the Ministerial Decision of the Grant Sectors to declare it after two years? Is it possible to have 60 million people frozen in the Fund for two years and say it's because of SYRIZA? You couldn't even do that. Don't you understand our anxiety? So here, I think there is an issue. So what does New Democracy think? Working or not on lignite? You're confusing us. It's not gonna be a timeline. The bad news, however, is that the country won't come out with you in trouble. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u333	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u334	That is why we are putting all the issues clearly and vigorously. Can we do defoliation even tomorrow? We're here. Do you have the guts? You don't have them because you're hypocrites, you play theatre in the House. That's the problem with the region. They pay the theatre you play. Wake up at last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. Felle. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. He's a hypocrite who talks and doesn't mean what he's saying. We, both throughout the committee and in today's debate, have demonstrated with what we have done for two years today, so that we can, with a coherent plan, move to the new era. Let me remind Mr Famelos that during today's debate and during the committees we have tabled and can very easily get on the sdam.gr website to see everything we say today. So a hypocrite is the one who has nothing to show. So show us what you have done, present us with the plans for the fair development transition programme, the one which four and a half years during your governance, you did not even see at all. Show us the territorial plans, the interim programme that you have developed to support these areas and the new programme that you have envisioned. So I'm returning the characterization. You're hypocrites. Because what you're saying doesn't mean. You are obviously overwhelmed by the Government of New Democracy, because the New Democracy Government is doing what it says is doing. We have proved that today, with this bill, we are setting the implementation mechanism for everything that we have planned. So the interim programme is running. There is a plan for the next 7 billion programme that we presented and analysed, and I told you to keep notes. And here we will be, so you can tell us the next day if we've achieved what we've targeted. So I assure you, we're not hypocrites, you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u337	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Emmanuel Konsolas from New Democracy to Step. Under the Rules of Procedure, we are addressing the Bureau, not to colleagues or to ministers, so that there is no dialogue. To prepare Mrs Poulo from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many years in the holidays, many years, Minister, for your celebration. To all those who celebrated in Greece. Minister, I would like to express my satisfaction at an additional reason. Because today, with the bill, you gave Greek society the opportunity to move on to the environmental consciousness that we all aim to have. And that's what you've done. And I say this with great vigilance and with respect to you and my colleagues, because we are all talking about sustainable development, we are all talking in and out of Parliament about the possibility of developing energy reserves in sustainable reserves and from this point of view, and I can only assure you that, yes, this bill is currently being discussed throughout the country. And for one more reason. If we have set as a central objective the adoption of environmental awareness through environmental policies, that is what you have achieved. Because let me say - and I address myself very much to Mr Famelos and to the Civic Opposition - that, in search of information from the minutes of the House of previous years on the subjects of this very aiming of the bill, I have never seen a draft law ever discussed at the National Delegation, a proposal of government that has a start, middle and end, that is targeted, that there is content in the implementation of these objectives and objectives and, above all, that there is a strategic plan for their implementation with specific and measurable policies. I would therefore like to say that from the outset we all understand that this debate is extremely topical in Greek society. To express my satisfaction to Mr Cairides too, because I think that the issues raised by many colleagues from the opposition have been properly answered and analysed in committee and in plenary. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] One fact is, ladies and gentlemen. Do we want to rehabilitate from the use of lignite and oil? That's what the Minister whispered me to the Step. It's not just the lignite we're talking about today. Do you know what's going on in the small islands? How much energy does this transportation cost and the use of oil for the energy adequacy that the islands need, especially for the tourist season? I imagine that you are aware of this, and we need to make this clear in our debate today. It is therefore true that there is an ambitious goal over the years for rehab, but unfortunately you are not apologizing, ladies and gentlemen. We have an obligation of our public accountability to the citizens, to say really how this flagship objective now has this project that Mr Papathanases and his colleagues, the National Energy and Climate Plan, has set as a key objective the decommissioning of this energy production from lignite and oil. And the bill that the Greek Parliament is being asked to vote on today, that is, we include planning, including measures for a fair development transition. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill essentially - let me say it - is a master plan. A strategic sustainable development plan for lignite regions, but also for areas where energy production depends on the use of oil in the direction of creating and strengthening a new sustainable model. And it concerns regions, as previous colleagues have said - for the region of Western Macedonia, the municipalities of Megalopolis, Tripoli, Gortynia, West Macedonia and the municipalities of Ekalia, Messinia, which depend on mining for lignite. But listen to me once again: it is also about the South Aegean region and all the municipalities of the southern, eastern and northern Aegean, ladies and gentlemen. Because the Aegean depends on the use of oil for the production of electricity and you know the problems suffered by their islands and municipalities by this use. A fair development transition is, therefore, linked together with important objectives and let me also point out them, thereby giving answers to specific colleagues from the Vice-President. First target. The bill ensures employment and the creation of new jobs in the regions concerned. Second target. It also compensates for the impact of deprivation on economic and social fabric in the regions concerned. Third target. It ensures the energy self-sufficiency of the country and regions concerned. In other words, it has a local, over-local, but also a national objective. The Special Department of Fair Development will undertake this central planning and planning of policies for lignite areas, so they will not be fragmentary policies. I would like to invite you to see these policies, which in the past many governments in the country have submitted here to the National Representation. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, this problem is being dealt with completely. And that is the necessary and important element in order to have a coordinating tool and mechanism for all the actors involved, but also to have a speed in implementing policies and actions. The establishment of the company "METAVATION S.A." takes over the project on the one hand the restoration of the areas committed to lignite extraction, on the other hand the attraction of investment projects and support for self-government in the implementation of development projects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Three territorial transition plans have been submitted to the European Commission. Plans for the West Macedonia Region, plans in the Megalopoli region and plans for the Aegean Islands and Crete and, Mr President, because of the islands' representation, give me two more minutes. These plans describe the transition process, the justification for the selection of the eligible territories, the documentation of the needs of economic diversification, the acquisition of new skills and the environmental rehabilitation needed for these projects that we are talking about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what do we all see from this debate? It is a necessary procedure for policies, actions and investments in these regions to be financed. Minister, I would like to express for one reason my satisfaction with your face, but also with your ministry's policy. Because you were the driving force, so that the European Commission can integrate the Aegean islands into the regions that will be supported by the European Fair Transition Funds. If, for some colleagues, this parameter does not say anything important, I confess to you as an islander, that it is a maximum objective, not only political, but also social, for the development of the regions. In the Dodecanese, according to studies to draw up the territorial plan, there are estimates that the potential benefit from shifting to sustainable tourism and green energy will amount to EUR 43.8 million added value, as well as the creation of a thousand hundred and sixty jobs annually. The inclusion of the “Greco Island” initiative by the Ministry of the Environment in the territorial plan enables small islands to develop ecological tourism and the cyclical economy. Create hybrid power stations, support cyclical agriculture. To develop new digital infrastructure, create electricity-mobile infrastructure, bicycles, finance desalination and waste-management projects, and also finance operational proposals and projects on these islands, with a reference to innovation, digital transformation, reducing energy costs in installations in new, green forms of energy, and strengthening the agri-food sector. There are also increased investment incentives for lignite areas. Minister, I believe that your new development plan in the law that you are including and proposals that we have heard here from you and from other colleagues, I imagine you will also consider the proposals that we discussed together with the Ministry and I have tabled and which relate firstly to increasing the aid and grant rates for the islands of the South Aegean Region, by revising the regional aid map or by removing the aid intensity, secondly, by increasing the aid ceiling for small enterprises employing up to EUR 50 million in ten million per investment project, and finally by integrating tourist enterprises under a grant of up to 100% of the investment projects as an aid scheme. Mr President, I would like to thank you for your tolerance, but at the same time I would like to say that digital transformation, the energy transition, but also the green economy have the future as a reference point, and I would like, despite the good intentions of the Officerial Vice-Population and Anti-Population, to invite them to a full-fledged next day that is the vote on this bill. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u339	Thank you. Mrs Panagiou Poulo is called in Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Get Mrs. Tyloridou prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and we'll close with Mr. Burnus. Mrs. Pulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u340	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the field of energy is another ideal field of deregulation and divestment, a real "eldorado" for the private interests it serves with moving devotion. You have lifted your sleeves, gentlemen of the government, and within less than two and a half years you have been able to privatise, i.e. sell out the most important public energy operators in the country, from the DEPA of Infrastructure and the Board of Directors of ELPE to the networks of the TEDO and, of course, PPC itself. And, of course, after so much work, the awards and the ancestors came. First, the New Democracy Government throughout Europe, but only where for the sake of the country it should be last. In December Greece was again at the top of Europe in terms of the wholesale price of electricity, as it was in August. This first, however, Mr Ministers, has the effect of plunging Greek society into tolerance. Households, small and medium-sized enterprises and even industries are narrowing down the rising cost of energy. The numbers are relentless. Small and medium-sized enterprises, the focus, the hotels, the ovens, the farmers pay an additional EUR 1 000 to 1,500 for electricity each month, while the industry is charged with an increase of EUR 150 million in low-voltage and medium-voltage electricity per month, but also with an increase in production costs of between 20% and 40%. With such a projection in production costs, no one wonders that households face an unprecedented wave of appreciations in all basic consumer products, which a simple visit to the neighborhood supermarket has become a nightmare for citizens. In this context, however, the New Democracy colleagues congratulate each other on their great work. Nor does anyone wonder that suppliers found an opportunity to speculate in 2020, in the middle of a pandemic, selling four times over the wholesale price of electricity, since no one controls them, while private PPC now sends one after another "split" bills to households. In this context, therefore, the suffocating framework that you have created, Mr Ministers, is now coming to present us with a plan for the so-called green transition to energy. Let us look carefully at this, ladies and gentlemen. With the bill we are discussing today, the Mitsotakis Government is once again setting up a fancy communication scene on which it places the bright inscriptions of liberation and fair growth transition. But what do we find behind this stage of deception? We find its first and greatest lie, which is of course about the very defoliation, which is supposed to lead Greece to the era of green energy. But what she's saying is true? No, of course not. Mr Ministers, degreasement, as you plan it, does not mean carbonisation, does not mean gradual decommissioning of the country from fossil fuels. You want to abandon a domestic fossil fuel, lignite, not to adopt a sustainable mix of renewable energy sources as you should, but an imported fossil fuel, natural gas, which will fuel private production units, which will cost the economy at a great cost and commit the country for many years. With your responsibility, the country has been moving away from the green road opened by the SYRIZA Government - and as much as you do not want to hear it, I will repeat it - already in 2015, with Alexis Tsipras' commitment to climate neutrality at the European Union Summit and, of course, since 2016 with the first climate law that incorporated the Paris Agreement on Climate Change into national law. Let us now come to Articles 2 to 15 of this article, the proposed model of government of exculpation that includes the Special Department of Justice of Development at the Ministry of Development and the "METAVICATION S.A.", for which you have even needed two and a half years of preparation. But that makes sense, since you have not even come to an end in the time horizon of defoliation. You started with the limit of the transition to 2028, go to 2023, then again to 2025 and again to 2028. You have therefore taken two and a half years for a scheme that ultimately does not meet any European and international standards. It does not comply with the regulation on the Fair Transfer Fund, the regulation on the common provisions of the Funds, the European Commission's toolbox on governance of the transition, or the directives of the World Bank. Two and a half years for a model of extremely complex, gray zones, in your welcoming method, with full omission of the Ministry of the Environment, with many overlapping of responsibilities, with parallel structures in the Ministry of Development and the "METAVASIS S.A.", with superpowers without control, with an all-aware multi-relationship between the Minister, the coordinator, the commander, the CEO, the advisor, and the advisor. Two and a half years for a structure that excludes civil society, which is once again challenging the players of self-government and of the energy communities, of course, which all eliminates the regional dimension of transmission. With your excellent model you create three and a half thousand unemployed jobs in lignite areas, in western Macedonia and Megalopolis, without a plan for their work rehabilitation. And yet you do not even give them representation in the new structure, precisely because you do not want their voice to be heard and socially controlled. At the same time, of course, you did not fail to provide for at least seventy-eight seats in the special service and an undetermined number of managers in the company, without clear recruitment criteria, but with provisions for golden bonuses and special wages as you did at PPC. We are sure that the blue Golden Boys will be found very soon to cover these positions. So you do not forget these, but you have forgotten the creation of the appropriate mechanisms for institutional and social control of the whole structure. You do not establish an autonomous Fairway Observatory, nor clear control procedures in “METAVIA S.A.” by the National Transparency Authority, the Coordinating and Government Committee, not even the Parliament. Nearly all of you have pointed out in the hearing these shortcomings and distortions, as well as the fact that there is still a solution to the problem of the restoration and development of the territories in the lignite areas, while the ongoing loose ends in the spatial planning prolong the anguish of local societies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a minute. I'm asking for your tolerance, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the energy transition planned by the Mitsotakis Government is neither green nor developmental. It entangles the Greek society and the economy in a distorted model, on the one hand, with the completely unrealistic and inefficient development of renewable energy sources and, on the other hand, with defoliation, which does not relieve us of fossil fuels. He managed to create local movements across the country, instead of completing the special spatial planning and setting specifications and criteria, attempts their uncontrolled and environmentally destructive facilities in NATURA areas, in virgin forests, in archaeological sites, in natural well areas, in areas of mild tourist alternative tourism, everywhere, uncontrolled, where the private interests he represents are served. In this context is the example of the disaster that has caused and continues to cause in Boeotia in terms of the RES, having no protection status and also gas dependence, since Boeotia covers six gas units and the seventh, which is now being prepared, 32% of the domestic total production, i.e. about two and a half thousand megawatts. What kind of energy sustainable mix are we talking about? For what principle of proportionality? Ladies and gentlemen, a real and fair green transition, with sufficient energy supply, with transparency, with the participation of society and the protection of vulnerable consumers, escapes the political choice of the Mitsotakis Government. It is, however, a strategic objective of the next progressive government, which will be called on for the second time to alleviate the disastrous effects of the neoliberal poplar. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u341	Be well. You haven't asked for it many times. The Minister has the floor, Mr Papathanasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, listening to Mrs Pulou, I am going back to hypocrisy and bilingualism. But is it possible in this party that you do not agree? When IPTO sold, Mrs. Pulou in front of you was the Deputy Minister who signed the signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u343	We interrupted the sale of IPTO...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u344	So we started...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u345	Please, he didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u346	You're very concerned that we interrupted the sale of the majority because you're liars!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Femmelle, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u348	Because we stopped selling the majority of IPTO. You are so sad! It's too much of a bother to you! You mind because Greece has the majority of IPTO.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Famelle, please, don't mess it up now at the end. Stop, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u350	No, I won't stop! They're not ashamed to lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u351	Please! The man didn't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u352	Don't have any pluralism in this party...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u353	What about us? You, the MPs, are asking for an extension...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u354	You don't have the floor, Mrs. Perka. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u355	They ask for an extension of the lignite plant to your MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u356	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u357	Here he blames us for shutting down the units.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u358	Please! The reason for this is that Mrs Olympia Tyloridou from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, hypocrisy, misinformation and slander are characteristic of the public word of the New Democracy and we are returning to you the designation. We have been tired since this morning of hearing from the New Democracy colleagues that SYRIZA in this debate, at this critical moment, has not tabled any proposal, you have heard nothing from us, we have not taken part in any consultation. When this is heard by some who do not know, we can say that it is due to ignorance. But when it is heard by Members of the New Democracy Parliament in western Macedonia with whom we participated together, it is a slander and misinformation. Whenever we've been called, we've been involved, but we're not here as your top-secret applause. We pointed out the mistakes, the shortcomings, and we tabled concrete proposals. If we are not pleasant to you, this is something that is not about us or the local community. I'm explaining. June 2020. First meeting, with Mr. Musuroulis at the Gounas Exhibition Center in Kastoria. From what they have heard, I have pointed out that we are leading to an unjust transition and I have made specific comments and proposals. I have asked, for example, for this transitional period not to continue regression in the area and for SYRIZA to be designed for the next day, at least by referring to my regional unit in Kastoria, where we started another development model, not on paper, but in practice. For example, I have asked that the Management Body of Protected Areas of Western Macedonia, based in Kastoria, should not be abolished, which was an important tool for the promotion of the region, for the promotion of local products, for its promotion as a tourist attraction to a different productive and development model. You abolished it. New university departments to be able to connect to production and give another perspective. You've done away with it. Integration of irrigation projects into the Rural Development Programme by the government of SYRIZA. You froze them. Twenty-four-hour operation of the Natural Rehabilitation Center in the Argos. It was said at this meeting that this was not related to the post-ligninary era. After three, just months, you presented to the master plan as a flagship project the Creation of a Natural Rehabilitation Center in Western Macedonia by PPP, because for you health is a commodity. Airport railway connection Kastoria with Pogredec which gave an extroversion to the region of Western Macedonia bordering Balkan countries for the development of trade, transport, research and education. You stopped it and started a debate on a zero basis. On the one hand you will take it as a rail link with Ptolemais, the other with Veria, the third with Kalambaka, the fourth you will pass it through the Kleisoura tunnel - when it's over - and the fifth of the Kalambaka tunnels you dream about. Local officials of the New Democracy, in front of Mr. Musuroulis, said to me and I quote: "The plan will be for us. We are government and you will not tell us what we are going to do." So who is acting today? You have dismantled everything, and this is where Members come in with political courage today, to say that we refused to contribute to forming. I tabled a specific proposal to all operators on 19 October 2020 and with a press release. You don't care. I participated together with the other colleagues in western Macedonia, Mrs Perka and Mrs Vetta on all the regional councils we were invited to. Tragic situations. On 26 November 2020 we were invited to the first meeting of the Regional Council to hold the first debate in order to table proposals on the master plan. At the time of the meeting we find that a report is coming out of the Ministry of Energy which says that the government committee has already approved the master plan the day before, just a day. In my question to Mr. Mussourouli about this impatience, I did not get an answer. There is, Minister, the relevant video you can find on the internet and look for it. I should like to stress that the draft adopted by the government committee on 25 November was also approved by the Regional Director of Western Macedonia, who was a member of the Steering Committee of the SAD and was hypocritically calling on us, with Mr Mousouroulis one day later, to combine the master plan that the government had already approved. You have ridiculed us, the members of the regional council and the entire people of Western Macedonia. In our constant speeches, as parliamentarians, but also our party's respective area, for the injustices that existed, we did not receive an answer. In particular, to exclude Kastoria and Grevenes, which had adverse effects on lignite activity over the years, and we also told the committee, Mr Musuroulis said that there was no exclusion. And a few days later he said: 'yes, they are excluded, but we will see how this is to be compensated for by the region's ECP. On November 26, 2020, a press release by the Ministry of Energy announces that you are planning a 107 million programme to support employment. Firstly, it does not include all Western Macedonia. Secondly, it was not even for Kozani and Florina that it would be for the unemployed in western Macedonia. And thirdly, it planned a business of companies that could make a branch or an EIA in western Macedonia and hired and subsidised for the accommodation and relocation of unemployed people from anywhere in the world and from German, even, companies as Mr Mitsotakis said in the newspaper 'BILD' that they would benefit from liberation. A recent OAS programme concerns all operations in western Macedonia, but not all the unemployed in the region. It forces businesses from Kastoria and Grevena to fire people to get unemployed from Florinna and Kozani who are part of this program. You are moving the problem created in two regional units, Castoria and Grevenna, which have the highest unemployment rate in the European Union, instead of creating new jobs. And you come here today, the government with a lot of political courage to move our fingers to us and to feed vaguely for the future that you will help us. We inform you that the citizens of western Macedonia are not indigenous to feed us mirrors. You are potentially creating from PPC’s wider turnover twenty - five to thirty thousand unemployed. You are talking about five to eight thousand potential jobs, but they will end after the installation of pharaonic photovoltaic parks. You're not saying anything about the primary sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tyloridou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u361	I would like to end, Mr President, because I represent an area which is very affected by this policy of government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u362	Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u363	You say nothing about where the mines will be attributed after their restoration, how you will show up the PDOs and what products, how you will use the water supply horizon, how you will reduce the cost of energy on farms, how you will lead to new techniques and how you will of course connect all this to the University of Western Macedonia that you have deceived from the first moment. You don't have any land policy. You have no demographic renewal policy. You have no policy of modernisation. You don't have a serious policy. You don't care about society. You are "closed in the doors" and you are today legislating an administrative structure to find work for technocrats and Golden Boys. And you move our finger when you hear neither the MPs in the region nor the institutions nor the local authorities nor the people of western Macedonia. You spoke only with a hundred families who will take the lion’s share of the exculpation funds. This has been recorded in the consciousness of the people of western Macedonia and they know the responsible. The responsible has a name and it's your government. It's your party, it's your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tyloridou. Mr Ioannis Burns has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. Although coming from an island area that has never been interconnected to this day with the network of mainland Greece, in my generation since we remember ourselves, we know that energy, the light comes to the majority of the country from the large lignite plants of PPC in western Macedonia and Megalopolis. Whole areas of the country were identified with this industry. The inhabitants gave their lives for her literally many times and paid the consequences of lignite on their health and the environment. To have work and not to follow the fate of the Greek province, i.e. migration, they agreed to live and make families in an environment of very serious environmental degradation. Now they are in danger of staying only with pollution and abandoned mines. They're worth more than us. They deserve respect and serious work, without surprises and selfish designs like those described before me by Olympia Florido. It was worth more consultation than a week at first. They deserved a model of administration and management of the green transition and the liberation that will include them. Obviously we are in line with the European objectives of climate neutrality. After all, it was our government that established the first National Fair Transfer Fund in 2018. Illegalisation, however, is not a game of public relations. Tens of thousands of people and communities at risk are involved. We cannot go back on the dates of final liberation according to Mr Mitsotakis' communication priorities. Today he wants to appear with green sensations, tomorrow that he cares about jobs, the day after tomorrow about cheap energy, so he can put the lignite plants forward, of course always matched by the interests of natural gas that will replace lignite and the real green transition with RES we see. Of course, the replacement of a fossil fuel with another is not green and it is not carbonisation. The result, of course, is the most expensive energy in Europe, in a country where households and businesses have already been thrown out of the austerity and bankruptcy that your resignation has brought. My colleague Pete Perka pointed out in her suggestion that Greece was in the ninth place in the allocation of funds from the European Fair Transfer Fund behind Bulgaria or Romania, although Greece has regions that depend entirely on lignite and already with high unemployment. And you cannot hide the inadequate funding by adding the funds from the NRP and the Regional Operational Programme which would, anyway, go to the region to 'don't talk, so much we give you'. Only 300 million are planned for deprivation of billions of resources from the Recovery and Resilience Fund. With your plan you will be diagnosing from Athens, away from the area, with decisions of tens of directors, governors and managers who will determine the fates of the lignite regions. Complete absence of engaging local actors in the governance model, but many overlaps of responsibilities because your goal is to trade for positions, for Golden Boys and not to concentrate responsibility and accountability, with consequences of course also for absorption, because the overlap of responsibilities and associated intrigues cause delays. Why does the local society not participate in the board and the general meeting of the "METAIS S.A."? Should it not be in Ptolemais, should the seat of the "METAIS S.A." to ensure the standard and informal social control of the company and the effective involvement of local bodies, for example, with permanent regional committees, structures integrating local authorities and bodies in local society? And the study of the World Bank predicted participation of local bodies, and these are the recommendations of the committee and international organizations. It is a standard international practice of accountability and effectiveness. It ensures that the effort will not be manipulated by interests and by power systems that draw legalisation away from the place where the transition is concerned. It is not even planned for people to work in the new body from the area they know and live with the consequences. For you no chance goes lost for customer transaction and favorable "days". With the same logic, energy municipalities and regions are excluded from being party to the programming contracts referred to in Article 17 between Ministries, "METAVIA S.A." and PPC, that is to say, local society has a say in the contracts for specific urban projects in the intervention areas. And it doesn't seem to be innocent of the business blockade at all. Neither is climate sustainability ensured and the sustainable cost of district heating for the inhabitants of western Macedonia while entering energy precarious times. In short, you let Evia burn, you leave Epirus, the eastern Aegean, Thrace, but you will make a rapid degree. There are twenty-five thousand unemployed in western Macedonia, a thousand six hundred in Megalopoli and you are targeting eight thousand jobs. No strategic and development plan has been seen for the lignite regions, not even a brave 'EXOCONOMO' or financing of energy communities that are indeed good European practice. Local society is missing. You are intended for beneficiaries of the funds who will discipline each transaction that will be ready for them from Athens. We must commit ourselves to every job lost by liberation. And not be tempted that we'll be declared champions at all. In the privatizations of the energy industry, the unemployment of the outermost regions and at the same time the exact energy. Neither fair nor development is the transition you are making. You go to unemployment, unjust and arbitrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr Burnus, and respect for the time. And now we're going to the rapporteurs. I will begin first by Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni, from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u367	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to be very brief and respect the time. The government with this bill creates a social hole in western Macedonia and the wider area of Megalopolis. It wants liberation, which is self-evident in the face of climate collapse, but the desertification it brings is not self-evident. But it is convenient for the government to serve certain businesses and entrepreneurs. I'll be clear. Three things that need to be done. One: Rehabilitation of the territories. That means that all the workers working in lignite mines will have a job. They will not be unemployed, they will not be left without income, they will not be left with loans running. Two: What is he doing with the lignite workers? The units must be converted into thermal storage units. This allows these jobs to be maintained. Three: With a program from the Recovery Fund, "Explore House" for all households in western Macedonia and the Greater Megalopolis. With a parallel installation of photovoltaics on the roofs, households could become self-producers, and their incomes would be strengthened rather than reduced. We could have the mobilisation of plumbers, painters, electricians, aluminaades and all professions, energy savings and renovation of these houses. An economic boom in the region, a growth that will go to small businesses and self-employed people. The government's not moving on with this. It doesn't give time, in the decade that land restoration would take us to design the new development model in the region, and it doesn't come with any plans. Now, Mera25 is tabling two amendments. I am a defence witness tomorrow at the ONEX trial against the citizens who defend the environment there. We are tabling the amendment on slaps, strategic actions and complaints against citizens defending the environment. We are tabling an amendment to reduce VAT on the islands at the earliest memorandum. And I want to make a reference to Mr. Georgiadis' personal assault. He said I got up and left the room when he said that I was against natural gas, because I defend, he says, the nuclears. I mean, not only did I leave the Chamber, it was completely false. He's a liar, a liar, a liar! I didn't leave the room. I intervened during his speech, said to him that it is false what he says, and I asked the Bureau to speak immediately with his speech and then from the Step of his House, at the first opportunity I had. I am against the nuclears, and I am fighting - and the President and my colleagues know - against the Akull nuclear power station. Mr. Georgiadis, the Mitsotakis government, if a businessman comes to him and tells him, I want to do nuclear, he'll do and say yes. That's who you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Delis, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with the amendments first. For Amendment No 1164 concerning the OAS, we want to state from here that, with our vote, we will of course not stand in the way of supporting other seasonal workers. However, we cannot fail to note that the vast majority of the unemployed remain outside of the allowance. If we think that based on the official OAED figures, only one in the eleven unemployed is subsidised by the Greek state for the period of their unemployment. Our position, of course, is well-known, based on the minimum wage of EUR 751 - and the reintroduction of collective agreements - 80% of that, which is EUR 600, is the allowance for every unemployed person. I shall now proceed to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Health, under the general number 1165. Of course we support and are in favour of paying the amount laid down in the amendment for health workers, even though this is a minimum return to the pandemic. However, we cannot fail to note that we are amazed that this allowance is not provided for workers in the welfare field, who are also working in particularly difficult conditions, as are the workers of private workshops, on the issue of pandemic. In relation to the certificates, the JRC's view is well known and made public. We have a negative position on these certificates, which are of course also used for other uses, with regard to the working future of workers, and we are talking about redundancies and so on. In relation to the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment, which we are voting against, it is quite obvious that in such a draft law that the government spoke about environmental protection, there is a provision in this amendment, which makes it easier to install photovoltaics by expanding the space in which they can be installed within forest areas. In relation to the bill, I think some basic conclusions are drawn. The first is that our appreciation is confirmed, and in the debate that preceded, that this account of the so-called fair transition is not about the interests of the workers or the people. It is probably about sharing the pie between business groups. And from this pie, of course, PPC S.A. takes its share of the lion, ensures the land and resources for its own investments in the RES, with the endless parks of PV power stations and, of course, with its exemption not only in the extreme, where the only thing we have to do lately is to "give" the inhabitants of this village of a photovoltaic park and save several million euros. The rest of the territory now left, what PPC will not take, with the responsibility of the state and all the committees provided for in the bill, will share with other business groups to invest, as they say, and open new jobs. Yes, sir. Only when these new jobs are opened, those that are not going to be - not many, on the basis of what we see, so far nothing has been done - workers and the people will see terrible employment relationships, low wages. They'll see poverty. They will see impoverishment and unemployment. In any case, the quality of life for the region as a whole will be degraded, with the projects that are being promoted - quite quickly - in the case of the incineration of waste - with the solutions proposed for district heating - which will surely cost the cost of this heating for the workers, the popular households - and of the unemployment which we have said is spreading over the area. In view of all this, we are now repeating at the end of the debate that we are voting against the bill, horizontally and vertically.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Now Mr Arvanitides has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u371	Thank you very much, Mr President. Obviously, today in the whole debate we have to understand and understand those who have been put by New Democracy colleagues that we are not talking about liberation. We have solved these from the government's programming statements, we have discussed them at the ESRB, we have discussed them unlimitedly in two years in this process. And we are not, of course, discussing the climate crisis or the 'climate collapse', in your kind words, Mr Cairides. We will discuss these in the climate law. We are discussing a bill on how to manage, with what structures, the effort to bring the region up and we are discussing what is going to happen with the earth. These are the settings and nothing more. The Prime Minister, then, started at the beginning of his term of office by setting an arbitrary goal. Is he building a green housing in a policy that is the next steps? Gas jobs, a choice we thought this would solve the transition to the country. Two years later, collapse. And the second thing the RIS has decided is with constant blockades to the RES investors and, in particular, the many, small RES investors - when we said here that the national economy also needs too many small projects and they were ready - lasting changes in the permits, they sent these people's efforts to invest in the bells. This pro-development policy of the New Democracy. What for? Electrical space that was not enough because we do not have networks for many to fit large investments. That is the real truth and whoever wants to talk about it. What have we been doing so long? The lignite plants were unconscious, we shut them down, but in the summer with the collapse of the energy we are driving to reopen them, no one can say when and who will work. And at Ptolemais 5, we're constantly indicting or asking - sorry we're doing this too - from the government to tell us what he's planning to do. Natural gas? Waste? What? So we sit down and wonder what is what you want to do. So energy costs are coming. It's blowing them all into the air. I am one of those who predict that for many more years we will see lignite burning, despite all the assurances or objectives that the government has. In the bill, then, we manage resources without local society. Someone has to answer why. He didn't answer. The second thing we do is settle the earth, the clean parts of PPC. Which PPC? 34% in public now. Why didn't you do it five months ago? Isn't that a gift to the people who entered the share capital on other terms and now they're getting a bonus? How many bonuses have you given PPC to tell us here that you saved her? Remember what? Of course, you did well to support her, but don't give up. It's easy when you give in the well-known state capitalist way, I rescue something by paying a lot. What nice things. Innocence and what PPC has to do with it, which we release, to many. So, let's see who's gonna pay? These, then, matters that reasonably arise as questions to someone who wants to make good criticism, one must answer them. Why these choices? And we denounce you or at least say here publicly that we understand that you are doing business for the few and promises and crumbs to many. You can come and tell us: These will go to many in these measures. Clear things. They will cooperate with PPC - to see who will even cooperate in the large photovoltaics - and see what the public will have. These are open issues. There, however, you will invoke market rules, strategic investors, goodwill in PPC. How many times have we heard of all this? So let us be serious, or at least say that, we will do, take responsibility and do not come here to resign to us that we do not understand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to take a little time - I am one of them, anyway, who are not being abused - to talk a little about the amendments. Amendment by general number 1163. It is reasonable that, at the last minute, as always, we come to regulate matters that, otherwise, the state has not been able to regulate. Amendment No 1164 is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Instead of changing the OAED organisation, it was assumed that this would be a whole thing rather than a fascinating method, again the same procedure, which was a scorching process. We've been dealing with issues lately. Both of these issues will be voted on, but we have to say a few words. Amendment number 1165. The first article pays the nursing, administrative and other staff serving in the hospitals of the ERC, etc. Benefit, financial aid. Exclude the invaders. We must stop the donation policy, Minister, and the demands of health must be heard. A comprehensive review of wage policy in the health sector is needed. Do it. With regard to the exclusion of the inconveniences, we consider that it is an unjust and disproportionate measure. He divides, punishes people and does not bring results. Furthermore, according to the WTO, the allowance and staff serving in CSRs should be included and it would also be reasonable to involve and include the staff of the TMGs, health regions. In Article 4, of course, you are reducing the validity of the certificate to half. On what recommendation? The science? And why was it for six months, and now it's for three? I say this because these revolts are making sense of lack of trust. Evacuate the limits of persuasiveness in the world. You constantly change what you say. If anyone has been looking through the statements of the last two years on pandemic, I think he will understand that this whole thing cannot stand any criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u372	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u373	Two amendments. Not a minute, Mr President. We shall vote on Amendment No 1166 on energy. For the amendment of a general number 1167 on the Metropolitan Pole of the Greek and Agios Cosmas what to say. How many times we change how many things. When we start no one tells us. How many special provisions do you need? The Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, Mr. Skertsos, on the occasion of Mr. Mitsotakis' finest Greek mansion, calculated that until then eighteen special laws were needed, twenty-three ministerial decisions, fifty-two administrative acts to start the work. Tell us how many special provisions you said you would start the project and the bulldozers in Greek in a week. Let us be serious, Minister. I understand that you do everything and you try, but not every time at the deadlocks you come to give up on us. Improve, try, raise the rhythms and achieve results. From intentions in this country, the citizens are full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u374	Mrs. Perka has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, I think I am entitled to speak a little longer and because I am the rapporteur for the bill and many days, very briefly, very confusingly, I have participated in the committees, but also because I come from and represent the people of Florina who have honoured me. So I start because today really - I will say it with a popular expression - you mad at us. But really. And I'm starting. Firstly, did Mr Khiridis say: 'Is the climate crisis classic' or 'we should not all agree on the climate crisis'? Now, listen up. It's the challenge of the 21st century. If we put it out of politics, we should say that it does not matter how we move, what the business model is, what the priority is in natural disasters, what is happening with climate refugees. It's political. It is politically differentiating, and I told you in the committees too. There is a policy of diversification in the global political scene in how we understand and face the climate crisis. We don't abolish the class struggle, unfortunately. I will liken this transformation called the 'green transition' to the Industrial Revolution. If we say the Industrial Revolution was out of politics, we're making a huge mistake. Then the political cities were formed in the world's political thought: Marx, Adam Smith, Ricardo from the Industrial Revolution. Now are we just going to say that the green transition is just going to happen and we're all together? We're not all together. That is why, Minister, we are not voting for the bill, because it goes exactly to this model that has brought us here, because the deculturalisation of climate disaster and the way in which production, model, neoliberalism brought us into this situation. The depopulation, therefore, of climate disaster is responsible for where we are today. I think that is clear, not to mention examples. That's enough. It is a political matter, then. So the question is not whether we have a climate crisis and whether we want defoliation. And yesterday, Mr Constantinidis, we wanted to. That's what Alexis Tsipras said. It's how, how, who stays behind, how the new production model becomes, whether it's two or three major investments, or whether it's the local societies and all that we've analysed all these days in the committees. That's the risk. So let's go to this bill and, above all, make a point. I'm disappointed for the second time today. So uninformed are you and don't you hear from us? What are you comparing? The Minister told us that there was no conversation, no plan, etc. The debate on defoliation with the Fair Transfer Fund began in 2019 in the European Union. In 2021 it became the Fair Transition Fund. Did SYRIZA have to think in 2016, 2017, 2018? You want to tell us that you did the fund? I'll answer what he did anyway. We've been through this, but I'll repeat it if you'll inspire it. You compare the fund, the first national fair transfer fund - and this is symbolic - which had 60 million, addressed to specific areas, which the SYRIZA government did when it had a horizon of liberation for 15 years. That was the targets then. That's the ones we were following. Now, of course, we agree with more ambitious ones. We in Europe are fighting 65% instead of 55%, and you in Europe are struggling to save coal and gas. That's what you're fighting for. We're learning. That's what's going on. And you come to the country and make gas units. And I was very disappointed by the New Democracy MPs in western Macedonia. They have very low ambitions. I say I want an innovation centre. I want to go out and say it's a state of the art. Europe laughs. Natural gas in homes which are not financed by the European funds, so from the national resources missing from elsewhere. Really? One Member told us: "Continuity of lignite", the other accused us of shutting down the lignite. You're going to drive us crazy. You're really mad at us. Decide. Clearly. How many times do we have to say it? We're on the green transition. We recognised the climate crisis and, indeed, we charge it to the neoliberal model of production, trafficking, distribution, etc. This depopulation has brought us here. And now we go to the next day: it's very heavy remodeling and, Minister, you're really hot potato and you've got it too late. Two and a half years the Prime Minister made an announcement, he didn't even negotiate. I don't want to talk about the seeds again. I've talked to you and talked to you before. Say 15 billion. If you have that kind of money, give the unemployed some money. People are dying. It's sudden death for the region. When will you know? Will you at least freeze the debts of people who can't pay and take their home? It's sudden death.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u376	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u377	No, I'm not finishing it, Mr. President. Excuse me. We said. I have too many reasons. In other words, so many were mentioned, "Speak the units" and "Why did you sell them, since you are not." Well, you don't know the anti-rost case. Do you know her the anti- trust case since the complaint was made in 2003? This was neither done with a memorandum nor with anything, because PPC had a privileged relationship with lignites and the market had to be balanced and in 2008 a complaint was made and was challenged in 2018. Aren't you ashamed? It's worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u378	Today isn't that the case?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u379	You guys took care of it in a previous bill. If you're undetected. I can justify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u380	No dialogue, Mr. Constantinidis. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u381	Mr. President, excuse me. Twelve minutes Mr Constantinidis spoke, because he is from Kosani. I'll talk to you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u382	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u383	The "little" PPC you made it. But I understand - and this is tragic for the country, not for us, we laugh - that it is all the fault of SYRIZA in the country that the memorials that imposed ones came, that the economy was destroyed, etc. We don't go forward like that. We're not serving the place. Can you understand that? There was a Fukuyama who knew what he said? He made a book at a time when he said that history ended in 1992 and there is no class struggle and there is no problem or wars, we are done. Good. And then there was a meeting, and we decided we had a climate crisis and he went his book and it all went. Minister, the Coordinating Committee meetings are not consultation. I'm watching them all. And when they were late to post something, we made an intervention. So, for the RESIDUs, the consultation has been over since June. We asked a question, and now a few days ago November they were posted. It's not a consultation. We asked that they be presented to the Committee on Production and Trade. We are talking today about the defoliation that we are actually discussing the model of liberation, and it did not come to Parliament. The chairman of the committee told us a statement to come. We want to help. We want to help the place. We want to help the regions. Consultation is also not a questionnaire given by the regional authorities to anyone they want and completed. I saw the dates. I've watched it all. Nor is it a consultation for the citizen to enter a site that is uploaded of all this - I am going in - to tell his opinion. This is not the consultation or involvement of society. You said we would participate in the monitoring committees. This is compulsory under the common provisions of the Funds. What are you telling us? It's compulsory. You said that the involvement of local government is being strengthened because a PPP official will be involved in the CID. Really? Energy municipalities do not even participate in the Steering Committee. The reactions of local society, of course, are treated with MAs. But let me say a little about the Observatory. You made it an autonomous department, you took it from here, you took it from there to public administration. IOBE had made a full presentation with organograms, responsibilities, etc. Haven't you seen them? Mr. Mousouroulis participated in the conferences. They all agreed. Local bodies were talking about an independent body, etc. That's not too small either. I'm impressed by an Observatory watching and they've all been conferences, they've all agreed. You said that the OTA staff would be strengthened because you hired the "Transition S.A." to help the OTAs. Get employees to the Ottas. He's got addresses. You said that there was a valuation report for our territories. There's no way for now. So, we legislate and we don't know what's there? What is the value of the land? What is the cost of rehabilitation? White paper. In other words, you are asking us today - say that we want to vote, you who will vote - a white check. Where will it be? Athens. This is where the cone is. And I want to say the last thing about state aid. We've been through this in detail, but I want to say that. You're telling us that a lot of state aid is being given to western Macedonia, business, etc. What's the truth, Minister? That this is due to the fact that due to the ten-year economic crisis, which obviously was caused by SYRIZA, Mr. Constantinidis, who entered the memorandum?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u384	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u385	Did you manage to bring the country to the memorials in this country? GDP per head in the region decreased below the EU average. Thus, all regions of the country will have State aid quite high. Europe has changed for all its regions. What's the result? The lignite areas have 10% on aid. That's it, it's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u386	And please hang up, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u387	Please, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u388	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u389	Mr Georgiadis admitted that we were low in the allocation of resources, but, he says, we are looking at the overall picture of money that would go to the region anyway, PPP, sectorally. That's what we count, that's fine. He admitted he was missing time, but it was SYRIZA's fault. SYRIZA made the mistake of this country ruling her for four and a half years. That was the mistake. That's how the country was destroyed. That's how all the bad things happened. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I have sent you some videos, because the Minister showed us some pictures of the lignite mines of Vivia and Achlada. It's interesting to see them. The monoculture of lignite, which was paid very expensively by western Macedonia and Megalopolis, does not support it. No, we do not support it because the disaster is now visible. But he wants another model of production. He wants to get involved in society. It wants a co-formulation, another policy, which unfortunately you cannot do, and it seems from this bill. You did not have the courage to put in these bodies that will run the transition from representatives of the municipalities and regions that are your political party. I mean, where was SYRIZA's? It's terrible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u390	Mrs. Perka, do not abuse my kindness. Twenty minutes you spoke to your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u391	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying at least that you are making the moves right. You have sent the territorial plans to the European Union, to the committee, which is inconsistent with this bill you bring. Have you seen that? They don't function, they have nothing to do with it, they have differences. And so we have lost resources for inert capital. The country went for the Recovery Fund and put new gas projects and said inert chapters Europe. And tell the lignite regions that in a few years' time they will be going through the same shock, again transformation because you are promoting natural gas projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, too. If you don't want to respect me, respect the institution, respect the regulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u393	Mr President, Mr Constantinidis spoke for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u394	But Mr Constantinidis spoke once. You spoke 20 minutes in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u395	Yeah, but I'm a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u396	Yes, you are rapporteur, but there are times too. Mr Dimitrios Ciridis has the floor, a special speaker from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, I will be honest with you. I don't mind overcoming time when something substantial has to be said. What bothers me is the repetition of themselves and the aphasia shown by some of our interlocutors in these four days that we are discussing the bill, I will come back to that. Let me respond to two or three points very quickly to the rapporteur for major opposition. As far as the memorials are concerned, only one sentence. This is a difficult debate. I will contrast the fact that half the SYRIZA executives come from the party that signed the Memorandum in 2010. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that SYRIZA signed a third memorandum which included both the first and the second. I will say this: Where was SYRIZA in the financial derailment before 2010? Was it the force to pull his derailment or acceleration? When the old people gave one of them, did SYRIZA say we shouldn't give it or give five? SYRIZA wanted the country's bankruptcy not in 2010, but in 2005, in 2000 before it happened. So he's not innocent of blood just because some of them hadn't ruled. Many of them had ruled and had responsibilities. But also those who hadn't ruled by 2015 do they not have responsibilities with what they said? It's just the governments? Does it not belong to the political system as a whole, to the journalists, to the non-political, to all those who led us in 2010? So if we are to have this conversation, we are actually going to do it, we are going to do it in depth without simplifications and facilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u398	We've all had it together!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u399	From there on as far as the transition is concerned, it is obviously a matter of policy. Obviously no one denies politics and I first. But this more is questioning the scientific data on climate collapse. Because here we have heard madness from various political aspects. And agree on neoliberalism. Where did he see neoliberalism, this candy on the last day? In Europe, to remind half of European countries' GDP is being redistributed by the state. About 50% is State participation through state budgets and insurance funds, as is the case in our country, half. Europe has the largest social cost in the world, as much as the rest of the world together. The five hundred million Europeans spend on social protection and solidarity as much as the rest of humanity together. Is it possible to discuss neoliberalism in this Europe with a state intervention huge, which has increased even more at a pandemic and with our own government of 43 billion? Mercy in this lazy thing! Tebels and plucking spiritual, lack of arguments, constant stirring of melted candy. And let's agree on something else. Bad, neoliberalism, as the opposition tells us, but even worse state planning, so that we don't get confused here, and on the issue of the environment. Because state planning has made it unheard of to have neither environmental protection nor prosperity. In other words, poverty and a bad environment. The Soviet Union's environmental crimes are well known. Lakes dried whole, disappeared, like Arali in the middle of Siberia. They're familiar with this. Not to mention whole regions, which have been infected so far and are not inhabited, not to mention Chernobyl. So, here's what all this is about. That's not the point. The issue of the political, major one, to which all the political forces must be placed - and today these are recorded for the history of the future and it is important - is whether we can combine prosperity with the transition. The transition is not enough. Being all poor and living in candles is the easy one. The point is to maintain our standard of living and increase it if possible, while protecting the environment. To have an environmentally friendly capitalist prosperity. We believe that this is possible by using markets, by using smart state intervention and by using technology. There are some fundamentalists who think it's impossible. There are them. There are some who deny the facts and the scientific facts. We accept scientific data, we regard data, we do not question science, which tells us that the temperature is rising and it is too dangerous and Greece will be affected more than the other European countries. But we believe that with a smart combination of markets, technology and state intervention we can move forward and ensure prosperity and prosperity, better prosperity. And that is of course the policy, our political proposal, which we have clearly tabled, and which we shall be judged on. I do not hide from you that I am surprised by the dialogue which has largely preceded. It does not concern all colleagues, but many of them, who how do they mean this dialogue? Will they come here for four days, at the first sitting, at the third sitting, at the fourth meeting of the Commission and here in plenary and say the same thing? The same stuff? Parallel monologues without listening to the answers? I made an effort, and look at it and the Minutes, I did different speeches. I have adapted to what has been said in response. You took the same chip and repeated it to me three times. Not just that. You got the information notes, so we can be honest now - such lazy and lazy - of your rapporteurs and repeat them all in ten times! The same and the same without any contribution to dialogue. Why do you come here and go and beggle why there is no consultation, why do you not have a dialogue, break your clothes, and how do you mean that dialogue? Should we listen to the same things without listening to the interlocutor? Who are you talking to? Over or through history, do you have the illusion of any of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u400	All right, slow down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, I will not close. I have to say, excuse me. I don't think it's psychiatric disorder. I think it is lazy, that you have no arguments, and instead of coming here to make a connection with the chatter and to answer, to understand what the other one tells you to repeat the same thing. And you tell us that there was no consultation. Excuse me, but Mrs. Tyloridou from Kastoria, who told us she had a lot of conversations with Mr. Mousouroulis, how much consultation did she do? He confesses. She didn't like the answers, but there were talks, she reveals, a latent language tells the truth. Well, that's the way to Mrs. Tyloridou. Did we hear that lignite is clean? But, seriously in the Greek Parliament in 2021 are these said about the most polluting of fossil fuels? Are we making fun of local communities in their faces? Neither natural gas is clean, even oil, even more fuel oil, even carbon, even more lignite, even more Greek lignite. That's the scientific data, so we don't get fooled. Is it wealth? Three hundred billion people have told us. And then the leader of your party came to repeat it to us, when the use of lignite damages PPC every year half a billion and when we went to give this wealth, no buyer was found to get it? But don't you hear? We told you at the first meeting, you repeated it again at the third. We have told you on the third, you have reiterated it again in the fourth. We told you in the fourth and you came here and told us in plenary. And then your chief told us. Mercy! Is there, he says, carbon capture technology? But don't you hear what I told you? That in these large scales there is no such technology today that can bind the carbon released by burning lignite in Ptolemais, Heart, Megalopolis. There isn't. And when he's in a dead end, your leader - another party - comes to remind us of his past. Let's just go and forget it, and it won't leave us. To break up, he says, with the European Union. That's the solution. He reminded us in 2015. The break. Remind us, instead of serious talk, to go a little further into our debate, to say that the system of invoicing of polluting rights is problematic. Now, let's take the conversation a little in depth, not to mention conveniences. For, instead, Mr President, we only invoice consumption, with the result that the Greeks pays, that PPC pays pollution rights, but when we import a product from Turkey or from outside the European Union which produces pollutants, it does not incorporate it into the price when imported into the European Union. So there is unfair competition between European products produced having incorporated into the energy price that have used pollutants, while outside Europe the products coming are cheaper and there is a problem. That is the essential problem we need to discuss here seriously, if we know what happens to us. It'll increase, he says, this year's lignite production. The Minister said so too. Of course, have you not understood that there is a problem in the gas market and it has suddenly become more economical for a few weeks, for a few months? We'll see how long this is. Why? But when you have 16% growth in the second quarter and 13% growth in the third quarter, you have an increase in energy demand and this is happening in the rest of Europe. And natural gas isn't enough. And there's been a series of other things. Obviously, when you have this explosive development, you also have an energy crisis. It is the aftermath that we have to resolve, but that does not mean that the lignite suddenly became profitable. And we'll rely, he says, on natural gas. But didn't you read the strategic plan, which provides for 4.5 GWh in excess of RES by 2030 and 30% of electricity generation to reach 70%? You're in favour of RES. Really? Then why are you always behind any protest about RES? There is no testimony to which the local SYRIZA does not exist behind. Mr Arseni, you mentioned the Minister, but he is not here to answer you and I will not try to answer you for him. I will only tell you that because I was present. You spoke of the British solution, of following the British.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u402	I didn't just say about Britain. I have said all the examples worldwide.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u403	I listened to you and understood to follow Britain and how Britain does it. In any case, Britain has gas and even at a double price from Greece, because it is an island and has a supply problem, it has abolished coal and even much faster than we do and brings the nuclears back. This is Britain. That's where the nuclears were referring to, to know what's going on with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u404	The European Union...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u405	Of course, some countries in the European Union, like France - you know that - bring back nuclear power and open up nuclear power.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u406	And Germany...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u407	The Germans don't. That's why the Germans suck the gas and it's not enough up here, and his price's up. There are no easy solutions and there are no fairy tales here. There are difficult equations and balances here. And you're telling us about sudden, and now we're changing. But, did you not hear that in the summer of 2021 40% targeting 2030 reductions in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 went to 55%? One night. The European Union decided in the summer to increase the target from 40% to 55%. Isn't this 15% a scary change to which we of course have to react? And if the target for liberation in 2028 was ambitious, does it have to be even more ambitious if from 40% we have to go to 55%? Because lignite - we talked about it and go back - is one-third of the greenhouse emissions in our country. Without him, without liberation, there's no way we can catch the target.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u408	Hang up sometime, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u409	We are told by Mrs Perkas: 'We are in favour of RES'. And there are, in fact, those on the surface who are in favour of the RES, but I told you again that there is no protest in any local society against wind turbines, photovoltaics, any RES that is not behind and that the local SYRIZA is not behind. You know that, too, because you have been critical and because what you said, these protests are not always justified, you know that you will pay it internally and that it is far overrun. And I have pointed out that it is too much, and I congratulated you on overcoming it. But from there, we must be honest that here we have two and three different SYRIZAs we have in the vaccines, as we have in the pandemic SYRIZA Xanthi and SYRIZA the faint from Sfakia. I asked you something and you had to answer it. Why did you not sign and issue the general regional planning plans for western Macedonia and the Peloponnese? I brought you evidence that Mr. Stathakis had them ready. Mr Stathakis signed the other regions. He did not sign the two specific regions, despite the fact that the Secretary-General, Irene Klamapacea, your Secretary-General, has brought them to him. And she didn't, because there were reactions to liberation and you didn't go ahead with it. And you're coming now and you're giving up because we didn't move on. Don't be fooled and in any case answer the questions, as I have tried to do. I am sitting here, keeping my notes, and I answered the first time and the second time and the fourth time, and I am not coming here to repeat the same tale of lazy and comfortable. I'm hanging up. I would like to thank and congratulate Mr Papathanassis on the very difficult work he has done all this time, and him and his colleagues, and for the cooperation we have had in our personal capacity. I feel like I got a new friend, really, all this way. And, of course, I would like to thank the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, who is not with us today, but has always been the support of the valuable, and of course Mr Musuroulis - I have said so to the committee - who is a Brussels technocrat who knows from Europe. We should at least give that to him, because this is where everything has been questioned. It worked too hard. To thank Mr. Georges and all the other partners. I'm wrong for a lot of people. Let me say we'll be next to the residents. Western Macedonia has offered a great deal to industrialisation and great economic growth, to what you say to the Left 'French Years', to the stone years of enormous growth that we took Greece in 1950 Psoroccostanna and made it an equal member of Europe in 1980, in thirty years' time. I wish we had more of those stone years. We'll be right next to them, right next to them, in Megalopoli and in western Macedonia. And we have said this, that for us it is a flagrant strategic, decisive choice, such as joining Europe, as were the two-three major strategic choices that we have made and deserved. So is she. It is an identifiable issue for the New Democracy to protect the environment, defoliation in an intelligent way and exploiting all the opportunities that the market and technology and the European Union give us, but without contradictions, backwards, sound-forwards and with the ranger and with the police officer, as you insist on opposition. And when you come to move the finger for ecology, to have done the work at home, the homework we say in Greek, to have learned five things and to come more well-read, to make this dialogue that you are so much cut off on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u410	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u411	Thank you very much. You've been doing well so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u412	I can't help it. I can't help it. I can't say any more. I'll expose you internally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u413	Mrs Perka, both in the committee and here you have heard the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u414	Be well. Thank you, Mr President. And of course we are voting in favour of all this and we will be here again and again - the issue is not ending here today - to discuss it in the interests of both the inhabitants and the whole of our national economy and society. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u415	I recommend that Mr. Kaklamanis come in last. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment ‘Guarantee Development Transfer, regulation of more specific issues of deflation and other urgent provisions’ is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, thirty-one articles, five amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u416	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u417	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u418	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Governmental Development, the regulation of more specific issues of ligniteification and other urgent provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u420	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-09-S1-commons.u421	With the consent of the House at 21.55 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 10 December 2021, at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
