ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions of Friday 9 July 2021, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 912/1-7-2021 by MP, Eastern Attica, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Spirtzis, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: “A appeal by the Ministry of Civil Protection (PRO) against judgment 8144/2020 of the primary administrative court”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 911/29-6-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary of Serres, Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Not at the closure of the only bank of the Municipality of Amphipolis". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by SYRIZA's MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Photos commissions and funding overlaps are being concealed in the invitation to "Subscribe Biowaves, Recycling Awards and Transhipment Stations" of the program "ANITIS TRITS" and lead to a scandalous loss of public resources and a failure of recycling in Greece". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Preventing and suppressing money laundering and terrorist financing - Amendment of the n. Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering through criminal law and provisions on speeding up the administration of justice.’ The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 1 July 2021, to discuss the draft law, in principle, on articles and amendments. The debate will take place with a combination of physical presence and Members' participation through Webex teleconference services. In particular, with the presence of the rapporteurs, special speakers, the Parliamentary Representatives, as well as Members of Parliament, will participate in a six-member cycle, with one speaker from each Parliamentary Group and two-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-man-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-man-one-one-one-man-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-man-one-man-man-man-man-one-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-lemen. Those of the above Members who wish to participate by teleconferencing through the Webex platform. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the competent authority has drawn up a list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who will be put through a teleconference will speak as soon as the speakers' cycles are completed in a natural presence. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou Ypsilantis, has spoken for 15 minutes. I would ask all the speakers and Parliamentary Representatives to keep track of the time. Mr. Ypsilante, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief. However, given that the bill is quite technical and its analysis should be as detailed as possible, I will need a little more than the planned time. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, which is being voted on, concerns the improvement and rationalisation of the existing legislative framework, the fight against money laundering, through criminal law, by incorporating Directive 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering through Criminal Law. There is also a list of basic offences concerning money laundering, the remodeling of penalties and sanctions provided for and the alignment of the conditions and the process of freezing and confiscation of proceeds of money laundering by means of the penal code and No.4619/2019. The third chapter of the draft law also seeks to rationalise the distribution of the court matter between the administrative courts in order to speed up and improve the award of criminal justice. It is important that during the debate most parties in Parliament, despite all the reservations - which I believe the Ministry of Justice is facing and will be mentioned by the Minister - did not question the necessity of the draft law and the incorporation of the directive into our law, as well as the improvement and rationalisation of the existing legislative framework. After all, it is obvious that the European Union is interested in the greatest possible convergence of this legislation between Member States, but also in the search for ever greater cooperation between judicial authority, authorities, independent authorities and the other administrations and banks. Our country is adapting and strengthening its arsenal in an environment that requires ever more and more vigilance, since the practices of money laundering and the concentration of assets for terrorist purposes are increasing internationally, are changing rapidly and, of course, it is one of the most important and most important problems in European and international legal order. The structure of the bill: In the first chapter, Articles 1 and 2, the purpose and object of the bill, which, as mentioned, is to rationalise the existing legislative framework and, of course, from there and beyond to the subject of the chapter which is the rational distribution of the court material, as mentioned. The second Chapter, Articles 3 to 11, concerns the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing. Article 3 is updated and Article 1 of Law 4557/2018 is replaced and we need to make this clear. In essence, it is an amendment to this law, since it reflected the purpose as it applied in its adoption, namely by incorporating the previous Directive 2015/849. Two amendments have been made since then, one of which is the one being discussed. Article 4 shall be replaced by Article 2 of Law 4557/2018, as provided for in Article 3 of Directive 2018/1673. Paragraph 1 defines what acts constitute the money laundering of criminal acts, and this is the conversion, transfer of property in the knowledge that it originates from a criminal activity or from participation in such acts for the purpose of covering the illegal origin or assistance to any person involved. It is the hide or covert of truth and the acquisition, possession or use of property knowingly at the time of acquisition or the origin of possession. In paragraph 2, money laundering is subject to conditions and where the activities from which the property to be legalised is derived have taken place in the territory of another State, since they would be a basic offence if they were committed in Greece and were regarded as criminals, in accordance with the law of that State. An exception is subsequently added under Article 3(4) of the Directive relating to activities which are not required to be criminal, in accordance with the law of the State, to be regarded as having legalised the revenue obtained from them. In addition to the provisions of the Directive, this exception is added to Article 4 of Law 4557/2018 concerning offences of the law on the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage, as well as to Article 4 of that article on piracy for the protection of Greek shipping. The newly introduced paragraph 3 provides that Member States must ensure that legalisation is possible when it is established that the property originated from criminal activity without the need to haunt all the facts or all the circumstances relating to that criminal activity, including the identity of the perpetrator. There's a criticism here. See if there is any legislative improvement in the wording of the article. Article 5 lists the main offences, i.e. criminal activities from which property to be legalised. These criminal activities, as is the case with the current regime, were allocated to categories twenty-one compared with eighteen current legislation, the first of which included specific crimes, for example criminal activities, terrorist acts, bribery, etc., and the last case is more general and includes any other crime punishable by means of a custodial sentence of freedom from which property benefits arise. This is a provision that has also been criticised by its rigour. In other words, crimes were updated on the basis of the changes made by the Criminal Code. New offences such as bribery and bribery have been included, in accordance with Article 132 of Law 2725/1999, in compliance with our obligation to comply with the Council of Europe Convention. For reasons of legislative correctness, the list was added with more criminal offences to respond to the offences provided for in the Directive, such as cross-border VAT fraud, Article 23 of Law 4689/2020, and crimes for the criminal protection of the interests of the European Union Article 24 of Law 4689/2020. Finally, it has been foreseen in the list of basic offences and any other crime punishable by means of a custodial sentence of freedom, from which there is a benefit, to include criminal offences of special criminal laws scattered in the legislation that may be of enormous importance. This means that such crimes include any offence or offence which is not specifically provided for in the list of main offences referred to in Article 5 of the draft law and which, under specific conditions, may constitute a major offence of legality. Article 6 provides that changes shall be made to the criminal penalties imposed in the event of legalisation offences being committed. The most important of these are: firstly, the threatened custodial sentences and the financial penalties that are adapted to the regulations of the new Criminal Code. Secondly, the framework of the penalties threatened shall be systemed to provide for the basic form of the offence, paragraph 1 (a), the distinguished indents (b) and (c) and the prerogatives (d) and (f). Third, it is more effective and more systematicly regulated the criminal treatment of the offender of the self-determination and of the relevant perpetrator of the main offence, widened the jurisdiction of the Greek judicial and public prosecutors in order to occupy money laundering operations carried out by a foreign foreign person in cases where the offence of money laundering is for the benefit of a legal person or an entity having its establishment in Greece. In other words, this provision achieves an adequate differentiation of the basic offence from its distinguished variations, since the escalating increase in the penalty is followed by the differentiation in the penalty. The principle of proportionality is thus respected. Article 7 shall be replaced by the applicable provision of Article 40 of Law 4557/2018 to align the provisions on the confiscation of assets with the provisions of Article 68 of the new Criminal Code and to address the phenomenon of different provisions for similar criminal proceedings with the same subject matter and objective. This alignment is mainly achieved through: First, a specific justification for the knowledge of the third person in order to carry out the basic offence or offences of legalisation, a knowledge which is also a prerequisite for the confiscation of the person. Secondly, the provision that the penalty imposed where the confiscation property is not sufficient can be imposed and where the property belongs to a third party to which a confiscation cannot be imposed. And thirdly, the provision that in any case of confiscation the court decides whether the infringements which have been committed must be destroyed or whether they can be used in the public interest. Article 8 shall be updated in order to comply with Article 4 of Law 4557/2018. Article 9 rationalises the process of commitment and adapts its enforcement and the means of defence against it to the procedural requirements of the new Code of Criminal Procedure. In particular, the proposed arrangements shall serve the following objectives: Firstly, the principle is that the enforcement of the commitment should be made easier in the initial procedural stages to ensure the object of the undertaking, but its retention in the next stages requires an increased degree of suspicion in order to ensure that progress in the commitment process is in line with the requirements for progress in the criminal proceedings. Secondly, it seeks to safeguard the rights of the injured person by the main offence and the offence of money laundering from criminal activities and the well-founded third party or trader of the frozen asset. At the same time, the undertaking to open new bank accounts for the exclusive service of the living needs of the same and family, subject to the prior information of the Public Prosecutor or the Interrogator on the transactions carried out. Thirdly, it is foreseen that the data lawfully collected by the authority are elements of the established criminal case-file on the grounds of the economics of the proceedings and the avoidance of unnecessary preliminary investigations. The question of the duration of the commitment measures imposed by the order of the President of the authority shall be settled. Provisions are introduced on the fate of the undertaking in the course of the criminal proceedings in the new Code of Criminal Procedure. The procedure for the self-determination of the undertaking shall be simplified as a result of the expiry of the time limits of the order by the Advocate-General's credentials. There is thus legal certainty and harmonisation of regulations relating to similar procedures with similar objects. Article 10 shall add categories of threatd administrative penalties to legal persons in order to ensure full effectiveness, proportionality and deterrence of penalties. Article 11 adapts the President's ability to order the freezing of the assets of persons controlled where there are reasonable grounds for suspecting the offences of money laundering in the procedure referred to in paragraph 7 of Article 42 of Law 4557/2018. In the third chapter is Articles 12 to 16 of the draft law. The issues of a more rational distribution of the court matter between the administrative courts are regulated with a view to speeding up the administration of justice, as well as facilitating citizens in the search for judicial protection. In particular, Article 12 lays down the power to hear and determine the appeals based on the administrative court of the place where the institution, which ultimately signes the contested act, is to be determined. Article 13 deals with issues relating to the territorial competence of administrative courts in tax disputes, so that the system becomes more effective and operational. Article 14 shall be defined as a court of a Member State in respect of arrest cases and detentions on the hands of a third party exclusively by the court in the place where the debtor is domiciled. Furthermore, Article 15 provides that the claim concerning the limitation of the right to charge or charge may be made in the context of an opposition for the first time if it has not been proposed and decided by another court with res judicata. Article 16 then increases the organisational positions of the administrative judges and, in particular, by three Presidents of the year and six of the forums with a view to assisting the judicial function of administrative justice. In Article 4 of Chapter IV, ‘Transitional provisions’, which are Articles 17 and 18 by means of the transitional provision in Article 17, prevents a self-justified lifting of the commitment under the new arrangement referred to in paragraph 9 of Article 42 of Law 4557/2018 in cases where, at the time of entry into force of this Law, a period of five years has already been completed since the imposition of the commitment measure or, in any event, a longer period of more than three years. In these cases, it is foreseen that the self-evident lifting of the obligation will occur only after two years have elapsed since the entry into force of the law without the irrevocable referral to the audience. In this way, the necessary time shall be allowed for the judicial authorities to complete the task of interrogating before referral of the case to the audience. Article 18 introduces a transitional provision providing for the transfer of the pending cases referred to in Articles 12 and 13 of this Regulation which has not been discussed in the competent court and the court concerned. The fifth chapter includes Article 19 providing for the repealed provisions, in particular Article 25 of Law No4689/2020 which provided that the offences referred to in Articles 23 and 24 of this Part and the offences referred to in Articles 159, 159a, 235, 236, 237, 237b, 375, 386a, 386b, 386b, 390b and 155 next of Law No 2960/2001 when they are directed against the European Union's financial interests or related to those interests are essential offences within the meaning of Article 4 of Law 4557/18. Finally, the last Article and the sixth Chapter shall determine the entry into force of this legislation, which shall be published in the Official Journal of the Government. With these considerations, we are saying that we are voting in favour of the bill that we are discussing, with which there is clearly an improvement in the regime for protecting against illegal dirty money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Alexandros Aylonite, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask you to give me two, three minutes in advance because it is a little complicated. Minister, you have tabled an amendment today introducing the financial aid of EUR 150 to children from the age of eighteen to twenty-five as an incentive to be vaccinated. Other issues relating to the supply by owners of the health stores of this device, this electronic device, to check the entry of certificates, of course, are also dealt with in this amendment. It will be placed on it, I am sure, Mr Ragus, our parliamentary representative. The misery of government's energy, however, to pay 150 euros for young people to be vaccinated in my view and my party, is a vulnerability for our culture, our moral and social values and the insult of society itself. If the government wants to create such citizens, then these citizens have nothing to do with Greece that we all want and we all love. The Greeks I know are not paid to protect themselves, their family and Greek society. I am saying this to be well with myself and with my party and the values that this empowers. I also asked you to tell me what you are going to do with the lawyers' requests. I asked you why you are not interfering with the misery and falseness of the officials of your government and your party towards the former Minister of Justice, Mr Paradise and the connection between your release officers and the crimes committed in relapse these days. I'm still waiting for your answer. It's an important matter for us. I said never to talk again. It could end the whole thing with a simple answer from you. But the day before yesterday, Minister, you have insulted us. I'll explain why you've deceived us. You used to serve us, telling us that - I read from the Minutes - 'We have a preference, a perseverance only with the crimes of the 'white collar'. In other crimes involving murders, rapes, such violations against human beings do not actually show the same interest." That's a big insult to me, really big insult. You even claimed that our interests were intended and aimed only at combating economic crimes. Is that possible? Is it possible to ask for a consensus from us when you invoke us in such a way? We, SYRIZA's executives, me being a lawyer and I see many in the Chamber who are lawyers, a life we protect these values, the human values of our society's moral pyramid. As much as you are trying to harm the ideological and moral pyramid of the Left will not succeed. You know the Left has the protection of human values in her DNA. What right are you, then, insulting us, the morals and honest ones who, with the courage of the majority, institutionalize the impunity of the bankers, the impunity of those who manage the pandemic, the impunity of those who manage the insurance contributions of the hardship people? Where did that sound in another civilized state? Minister, let's go to the address. Four meetings were held on the draft law of your Ministry, and I think we analysed our positions in detail on its provisions. I think we have developed in the big picture, but we have also specified in the article what SYRIZA did in the days of his administration. The coordinated legislative effort has taken the credit of European experts for the level of monitoring of Community practices with the effectiveness indicated, I am talking about No 4557/18. SYRIZA as a government has completed the most difficult evaluation process by FATF, for those who do not know about the international financial action group on money laundering issues after which the country joined a very few countries' club, at least ten were those countries that enjoy this high regime to deal with black money laundering. After all, your government recognized it. I would, however, like to introduce you again to my party's documented position on this draft law to express some more extensive thoughts about what we are discussing today. The Greek justice, which is served by a supreme office of the relevant Minister, has been severely affected by the pandemic. The delays in the administration of justice are obviously a pathogen that SYRIZA tried to heal over his days. He did quite good positive actions. And that is why she accepts unjust and vulgar criticism from your party and the former Minister of State, Mr. Paraskevi, who, with scientific and legal rationality, attempted to breathe into our penitentiary system in order to dismantle prisons. Politics, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling party, is a gift when it is done with sincerity, courage and boldness and SYRIZA officials have shown that they have broadly ruled on the front against petty-spirited political destiny, made decades of leaps in order to overcome anachronistic logic, took risk of pushing our society on a more progressive path, pursued policies adopted in the modern world, such as what we are asking today, and we amend it to No 4557/18. That's all you're accusing us of. After the pandemic your government will find in front of it thousands of cases that have been deferred due to COVID that will have to be managed by judges. How ready are you for this? Let the lawyers in the Chamber also ask themselves. Of course, it is not only the judges who are responsible for the delays, there are other issues such as the bad infrastructure and the shortcomings of judges, etc. Is that why you have something to tell us, Minister? Hold what I'll tell you. The crisis cannot be used to justify inadequacies in judicial systems, much more so to undermine their standards or violate legal guarantees. Such a health crisis can be repeated, which I despair. Judicial systems must be prepared. As far as your lawyers are concerned, I explained it to the committees. Even international investigations show a significant decline in the law. Lawyer's hurting. Turn your ministry's gaze into the legal world. If one were to try to identify any positive aspects of the pandemic in Greek justice, it could not stand primarily on the fact that the public dialogue on legal technology and electronic justice now takes place on a different, more practical and possibly bold basis. SYRIZA, with the works relating to electronic justice in 2015-2019, set the beginning in the digital era of justice. And you must do everything possible in this area. And I do not see there being a strategic project involving electronic justice. All of this, of course, within a framework of correlation, the association of e-government, but also with the live of the hearing, which unfortunately hurts the administration of justice here. In the draft law, you put forward the rationalisation of the existing legislative framework. Is that really what you're doing? Let's say things with their name. The general attitude of the New Democracy in relation to laundry is related to the change you made in the transposition of Directive 843 with Law 4734/2020, when you amended Article 4(l)(r) of Law 4557/2018, concerning the so-called ‘basic crimes’, of which only the dirty money that may then be ‘split’ can come from. This change artificially exempted from the provisions on money laundering a series of felonies, such as fraud, embezzlement or stirred football matches. I told you the other day. Immediately after, "on account of your crime" - in introductory terms, the two words - have pushed for the vote under Article 27 of Law 4736/2020, which introduced a so-called interpretative correction of the exclusion of felons made by Law 4734/2020, confronting the alleged error. In Criminal Law, however, everything he writes does not state out, and so a definitive window of opportunity was given for favorable regulation concerning many criminals or high-crime criminals in economic crime. What SYRIZA kept as an eye daughter, that is, the level of protection against money laundering, you did not protect it, in our view. You looked elsewhere to tighten up the spirit of the law and elsewhere to manage it with mildness. Money laundering is no exception to this treaty. The directive we are debating today and we incorporate it into the law, as I have told you, is complementary to the directive 849 incorporated by the law of SYRIZA, No 4557. Its main guidelines are to facilitate cross-border cooperation and to ensure that certain money laundering operations can be punished wherever they are executed, regardless of whether they are foreseen as criminal offences in the country of execution. The directive does not provide for the rationalisation of penalties. All provided for is the upper limit of the penalty shall be at least four years. This means that the imprisonment of a maximum of four years, i.e. five years, and the imprisonment of a maximum of 15 years, has met the requirements of the directive in relation to the strictness of the penalties. More serious criminal behaviour is chosen in the directive to be dealt with through the provision of aggravating cases and not self-determination crimes with their own heavier penalties. The Directive provides for stricter penalties only in relation to acts arising from public service operators. That is why we say that the government chooses falsely to place the rationalisation of sentences and 'under the table' to promote the execution of milder sentences or impunity in some cases. Minister, I have to say that the directive includes the fact that the Member States must ensure that competent staff are available, specific training, resource allocation and the up-to-date technological opportunity to deal with such crimes. However, the Government with Law No 4637/2019 did not strengthen the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority by criminal activities, the so-called ‘Black Money Laundering Authority’, but took care to make it difficult in its work, providing for an exceptional maximum period of time in which the freezing of assets from criminal activities could be maintained, without regard to the inadequacies in staffing and infrastructure at the beginning and whether it could meet these limitations. So, "cooked a bird", "flyed" too many suspects controlled by the prosecution authorities, and even many who had been referred to justice. I will refer to the changes promoted in Article 2 of Law 4557/2018, where the use of the financial sector by placing it or trafficking through it of proceeds from criminal activities is the only case that is completely eliminated by the law. Mr. Castanides is gone, but I'm going to report to what he said the other day. He told the committee that the nature of the criminal act on the use of the financial system as a permanent crime should not be eliminated, so that there is comfort in research and also in the allocation of responsibilities, speaking of a legal slip. Mr Kastanides is right that the use of the financial system as a form of rinsing is a way of committing crime in a lasting way, while the other ways of washing, e.g. the conversion of property, are taking place instantly and, consequently, the abolition of the case (d) paragraph 2 of Article 2 of Law 4557/2018 is at stake as long as necessary. I'm guessing in your location you'll take it into consideration. In any case, the case of the abolition of the use of our financial system is on the basis of the existence of complex financial products or deposits made through parent companies and in particular through offshore companies. In other words, practices that really can hide the illegal source of enrichment. I wonder if FATF has come to know this change since when we were assessed as a country in 2018-2019, this provision was in existence. So I ask you. Would it not be possible to retreat from it, with a risk of degrading the country's international image? The report of the draft law considered it unnecessary, as it is considered to be domestic originality which is already covered by cases (a) and (b) of Article 2(1) of Law 4557/2018. I'm referring to the laws, because you're the author of the bill. Of course, those who are watching us find it difficult to follow these provisions, but I must say it. The peculiarity of the provision was not legal, but material. The Government had to adapt the provision to these needs and maintain it as a specialisation of the other ways of committing the crime and not completely eliminate it. With its choice, there is expected to be an interpretative inconvenience and remember it, since there will be a need for pending cases to try to make the new provisions subject to the new provisions. This will happen taking into account all the factors described above, giving a second chance to those who have already come before justice under the repealed provision. And any failure to subdue will ultimately mean the total collapse of the relevant criminal prosecutions. And here we are. In Law 4557/2018, the creation and participation in a criminal organisation or group - a gang for money laundering were already foreseen as a parallel to money laundering operations and were punished accordingly. The criminal offense will be founded through Article 187 of the Criminal Code, but it will not apply to the distinguished case of crime. Currently included types of behaviour, such as incitement to money laundering, not included in the concept of moral automation, or counselling. However, the argument that the act of participation will not be recorded earlier than the basic criminal act does not, in my view, have any anti-criminal value. Here I would like to refer to paragraph 2 of Article 2 of Law 4557/2018 determining money laundering from legalised property in another state. A proper provision is introduced that acts establishing a basic offence in Greece are not required to be criminal in accordance with foreign state law. However, it is limited to some of the main crimes, rather than including crimes such as extortion and fraud, but also cross-border VAT fraud. I say this for those who know exactly what is happening to this particular issue. On the other hand, the provision of paragraph 3 is particularly problematic as the Government has accepted, without any adaptation and rational analysis, the provision of the directive. The structure of money laundering, as has already been seen, is an articulate, i.e. there is a need for a basic crime from which money laundering comes. Money laundering is what is called a 'dependent crime'. The wording of the directive seems to be contradictory. Instead of safely describing the conditions under which such a conviction could be imposed, the Government has adopted inadequacies as a guiding rule. Mr President, this is all for the moment and thank you for giving me the extra three minutes. In my dentistry I shall be on the rules and we shall give you an absolute explanation of our position in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Alonite. The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mrs Constantina Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of dirty money laundering or otherwise money laundering from criminal activities since 1980 has been internationally employing legislative, judicial, police and financial authorities. The glaring of this phenomenon has led to the awakening of regulatory bodies, when it is realised that the leaders of serious, serious crime have exploited the globalization of the economy, so that with particular technical and complex methods they can appear as legally possessing the revenues of their criminal activity. This, in its essence, aims to decouple the dirty money from the criminal source and to roam it into legality, with the ultimate aim of in any way harmless management of it. At international level, the United Nations Organisation on 20 December 1988 ratified in Vienna the Convention on the Combating of Illicit Movement of Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. The Convention entered into force on 11 November 1990 and has so far been signed by eight eighty-seven States. Subsequently, the international treatment of dirty money was followed up by the G7 team of seven largest economies in Paris in July 1989. At that time, the Financial Action Team, Financial Action Task Force or FATF, based in Paris, was set up to develop, promote policies and initiatives to tackle dirty money laundering. Although FATF is an informal transnational body, the notorious recommendations it has adopted and its revision serve as a legislative compass. The FATF in its annual reports separates the countries according to their degree of harmonisation with its recommendations. Those countries that are judged to be inadequate are undergoing a financial embargo, and the operation of their trade and financial system will suffer short-circuit. At European Union level, it is true that efforts to combat money laundering are constantly intensified and, of course, the funding of terrorism, which is part of this as well. Since 2018, the European Union has implemented stricter rules on combating money laundering. These rules make it more difficult to hide illegal funds through virtual companies and to tighten controls on high-risk third countries. The role of financial supervision authorities is also strengthened and access and exchange of information improved. In December 2019, the Council set strategic priorities with a view to further strengthening the European Union’s anti-money laundering framework. In May 2020, the European Commission followed an action plan setting out the measures to be taken in the next 12 months with a view to the effective implementation, supervision and coordination of European Union rules in this area. Over time the European Union has developed a strong, very strong regulatory framework. However, the rules need to be continually adapted to address the risks and constant developments from technological innovation, for example virtual currencies, from the increasingly unification of financial flows in the internal market, from the globalised nature of terrorist organisations, from the invention, if you like, of criminals in the exploitation of gaps or weaknesses of the system. With regard to today's debate on the incorporation of Directive (EU) 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering through Criminal Law, once again, as I pointed out to all the committees - Minister, I would like to say this from the Step by Parliament - I would like to stress that, on the basis of Article 13, this directive adopted in October 2018 should have been transposed into Greek law by December 2020. However, as I have said in all the previous speeches, unfortunately, the long tradition has continued, which wants European directives to be incorporated with a very long delay, and Greece has been exposed to its European obligations, which unfortunately appeared clearly in 2018, when our country was referred to the European Court of Justice for the failure to implement, not to incorporate European Union rules on money laundering. I stress this fact, as the incorporation of European directives with such a delay has led to the creation of a legal framework from the strictest in Europe, as it leads to an unconditional and strict acceptance of rules, without respect for the principle of proportionality, without many times being equitable and, above all, without being, I would say, appropriate prevention measures, but only repression. The legislation on laundry must be strict. It must be very strict, Minister. The offence is very serious and is constantly changing. It has taken new forms and because of technology it manages to always be one step ahead of the legislative and repressive mechanisms. However, legislation must be treated with the necessary seriousness and preparation, which unfortunately has not happened to date. Greece, precisely because of its specific nature, could have developed important know-how on research, on analysis, on cases of washing-out related incidents. We as the Change Movement - we stress it in any such case, particularly integrating European directives - are looking for the full implementation of European directives in the right way and are in favour of any initiative which defends the legal, political and economic basis, but also the values of the European Union. However, this process of incorporation of laws must be stopped in an unsatisfactory and unlike the general rules of the Greek legal system. As I said at the outset at the first meeting of our committee, such issues relating to the responsibility and seriousness of the Greek state as a Member State and especially of such gravity, cannot be and must in no way be a matter of political controversy, of party conflict on micro-party terms. The same has been said by colleagues in the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. And it seemed, I think, during their placement, that all of us were present at all our meetings. I am very pleased to hear you say that at yesterday's sitting, you said that, and the majority took note of what was said as a point of order and, above all, I would say to you - by the relevant bodies, who, I think, fully justified and fully legally substantiated, made specific technical comments on the draft, with a view to making the final text sounder and more complete. As an example, I will mention the observation of the representative of the Greek Bar Association, who said that there is no over-compensation of the person's assets and that we have harmonisation of this provision with Article 262 of the Criminal Code, so that the commitment is automatically lifted, unless a final decision of a criminal court is taken to a degree, within five years of the adoption of the provision. Of course, I shall mention in my speech and in the remark, which I think is very right for my colleague Mr Kastanidis not to abolish the case; Article 2 of the Law 4557 on the use of the financial system, because, in the case of Law 4557, the use of the financial system is a constant crime, whereas cases (a) and (b) proposed in Article 5 are an instant crime. I think it is very reasonable and I invite you to accept it, Minister. The European Directive is therefore necessary to be incorporated. Even late it is absolutely necessary to integrate. The offence that is trying to fight is of paramount importance and is linked to all serious forms of crime, such as organised crime, such as drug trafficking, terrorism, corruption, which every state worldwide and every Member State of the Union must try best to combat and deal fully with. For all these reasons the Change Movement is voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulos. The floor is now given by the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to begin by asking you this: we are already in the four amendments. Is there any intention of further follow-up? We're worried because in summer bills there's a lot of legislative ostrich usually.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u10	Not from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u11	If we have not lost the count, it is the sixth European directive, which comes to be incorporated, to modernise legislation on the prevention and treatment of money laundering. When we discussed the previous directive, we were then discussing the fact that there will be a seventh - and we do not know what is still next - of the so-called money laundering and, of course, the financing of terrorism. It did not even take time to speed up the accession of the Ministry of Finance at the time, the Government of New Democracy brought in the previous, with similar content, a directive, by Law No.4734/2020, which amended the law of SYRIZA of 2018, which also incorporated a previous European directive. However, the control of illegal money trails is always in deep darkness. How many times has this legislation been modernised and amended in recent years? What are the results of these measures that all governments have taken so far? As part of the construction of the well-known reactive area of freedom, security and justice, measures such as confiscation of the property were taken in the fight against money laundering from other criminal activities and the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority was established. Over the years to deal with the phenomenon has been active in a number of transnational bodies, transnational cooperation of prosecution authorities has been strengthened with the interconnection of systems for monitoring and exchange of information. Why, then, do all these efforts not address the problem? Why are any legislative measures to be adopted before the ink drys, in practice insufficient to combat the black money routes? Because such phenomena are fuelled precisely by the operation of the capitalist system itself, the legality of the other functions. It is a birth - the nobleness of unrelenting competition between monopolistic groups, the free movement of capital, the hunter for the maximum percentage of profit. That is why not only can they be fought, but they can't even be controlled, because they grow within everything that you all consider to be a legitimate functioning of the capitalist system. When this system, for example, considers the operation of offshore companies, the tax havens not only in third countries, as you call them, countries, but also within the European Union, are not the largest European banks that have been involved in black money laundering cases at times? Is there a dark place where you can't control their routes? The creation of any control mechanisms can sometimes take on the surface of certain cases of corruption, of course, in the context of the competition of businesses, but even if you wanted to do so, it cannot combat these phenomena because the root that gives rise to it remains intact, because the free capitalist market, competitiveness and entrepreneurship in whose name you are all drinking water is dominated. That is why all such efforts to counter corruption and organised economic criminal activity are hypocritical and in any case ineffective and contradictory to its objective if its causes are not addressed. If the evil is not addressed at its root, then it will continue to be recycled and it will always be one step ahead of any control mechanisms. Finally, what is achieved or at least attempted is to "wash out" through the fancy titles and the glorious objectives of these various Euro-Union directives and the respective Greek legislations, precisely the function of the capitalist system, which in the end is not difficult to give a contention of legality to this corruption. The photographic legislation in favour of parts of capital, which are constantly expanding and not just in our country, is well known. The recent, for example, provocative immunity of bankers for maritime loans is only a small example of the rich experience that exists in all the countries of the European Union. It is also typical of the Ministry of Finance's amendment to the insurance contributions of workers to the media that this amendment also gives large media owners interest and surcharges on the fines imposed on them by the illegal retention of workers' insurance contributions. So even these other illegal acts of major business groups are coming and legalised in a series of regulations of all governments so far. This is not a new phenomenon. Is it true that there is a need to develop new inappropriate technological evasion methods when, for example, logistics and not just capital enjoys such large tax exemptions, even dressed in the cloak of constitutional law, which make every cover superfluous? These tax exemptions of billions allow them to finance many times serious and highly profitable criminal activities, such as drug trafficking, arms and others, namely those described as basic offences in the bill. We are, in fact, concerned about exactly what criteria you separate the source of revenue into legal and illegal activity. Is it or is it not legal to you the unsatisfactory profits made by shipowners on the shipowners' back in conjunction with all these legal exemptions, otherwise, that you've given them at times? It is well known that in your system there are no "since walls" separating business profits or revenues, as you say, in illegal and legal. Or have they not reached your own ears of various majestics who started their careers by smuggling which, in many cases, continue to do parallel with their legal activities? They are among them and a number of other business associates, and not just many times with ministers and governments, who at times learn that alongside their legitimate business they do so-called illegal. We have no illusion that the increased rate of profit promised by illegal economic activity will always be an additional incentive for such investments in a system that its only god has the overcompensation of profits for the few and the poverty for the many. But we call on every well-meaning man whether or not he is responsible for the rot of the capitalist system, which you are all defending, for the blooming of all kinds of profitable criminal activity. There is no need for much thought to realize that drug trafficking, corruption and bribery to alter the results of sports matches in a fully traded sport, human trafficking, political corruption and the other offences to which the bill refers are incubated, born and developed within the territory of the principles of your own system, a system based on the principles of competition, the principles of trade in every activity, every need for the only profit. In your bill you say that you will hit the illegal revenues from Macedonian, pornography against minors and other such unacceptable crimes. But who is responsible for making merchandise even the human body if not your system? You are talking about crimes for the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage at the same time, of course, when even culture has become a field of great profitability, so that we do not remember the show you set up with the stolen paintings that, of course, cannot hide these motives created for archaocapilia. The main cause of corruption lies in the very nature of capitalist businesses, in their vital need to pursue the cedar in every way. Source: corruption, therefore, is unrelenting competition, the need for capital for profitability. You know, the hates of millions don't only have political addressees, state mechanism officials, etc. They have and you are sending capitalist businesses, the big capital that produces these misery, the businesses that require profit, and the hatred and corruption are a valuable tool in their hands. That is why any attempts at transparency always contain windows so that the real interests are not affected. So if you really want to check the dark paths of money, why don't you all name the shares without exceptions, as the JRC has repeatedly proposed? Where you are being caught for transparency is when you're going to record the trade unions' registers. For business groups, however, you keep the veil of anonymity dense, the closed accounts in different countries, the blooming tax havens. Which is why whatever measures you take are nothing but a fig sheet, the make-up of the capitalist system. But there is another more serious aspect of the bill. The linking of this and all the control mechanisms created with this infamous subject of terrorism in which a number of reactionary directives of the European Union are put together. A concept that becomes elastic in the European Union's documentary documents, more typical of the latest wordings on the risk of popular protests, thus opening up very dangerous roads. Jointly New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement, you have shaped a nightmareic legal framework that can also be used against the working people's movement to curb popular freedoms, even criminalising the intention of committing or alleged purposes of financing terrorist acts, when such forms of European Union pluralism are typical of any form of radical thinking. In fact, the amendment of the wording in Article 5 of the bill extends the concept of criminal support for terrorism, since it separates and criminalises it as a separate case from the financing of terrorist organisations, i.e., it criminalises other forms of support as described in Articles 187 A and B of the Criminal Code. Could, for example, we wonder whether the material expression of solidarity from a union to the people of Palestine, characterised by your murderers allies of Israel as terrorists, or other people's movements thus baptized by the European Union, even lead to the dissolution of a legal person on the basis of the administrative sanctions introduced in Article 10 of the bill? In this way, the door remains wide open to join the term 'terrorism' and forms of struggle chosen by the organised labour movement with serious consequences for popular freedoms and rights through the continuous enlargement of these offences and the special investigational acts and methods which violate brutally fundamental procedural protection principles. So the regulations of this bill not only cannot touch the illegal activities and paths of black money as they are euphorised, how much more so the roots of these phenomena that they claim to be trying to fight, but in the way they are finally being implemented are only useful in order to serve other, confessed and non-existent European Union and all urban governments. They are, in other words, effective only for greater repression and restriction of popular rights and freedoms. What is being served is not, in fact, transparency, but the competitive interests that are multiplying within the European Union and not just. After all, these interests of capital are those that have sometimes dictated and financed, equipment, education and support from various terrorist organisations. So all these unacceptable phenomena, such as money laundering, which are inherent in the way the capitalist economy organises, do not receive corrections to such an economy that is organised on the basis of profit. They are eliminated only in a society where the wealth produced is social property and is protected by the labour force itself carried out by its own producers. On the basis of all this, therefore, we are voting against the bill and articles relating to the European directive in principle. Finally, with regard to the provisions relating to the second part of the bill, we consider it to be a fragmentary one and therefore insufficient attempt to regulate delays in administrative justice. Of course, it is possible to make it easier for the parties to transfer the finality of certain administrative cases from Athens to the courts in the region, but it is clear that any changes at that level cannot be planned on the sole basis of the flow of the cases or, of course, the unacceptable delays which, without exaggeration, in administrative proceedings can be dealt with by a minimal increase in organic positions and, indeed, at the highest levels in administrative justice. That is why we place ourselves with the presents in these articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Secretary, here again we are to talk to you in a similar bill. Black money is a modern epidemic, pandemic, whatever you want. It hits the whole world, of course in Greece, and the fight against the black economy is a key objective. Let us not fool ourselves, it is very difficult to control these circuits. He's very difficult for two reasons, we'll say. Firstly, the technologies used by these circuits are much higher - so it proves in practice - the technologies used by their prospective auditors. Secondly, these circuits generally have the main pillars of the economy, politics, information and police in all countries. Don't be foolish, there's corruption in everything we've said. We didn't say that all these pillars are dirty, under no circumstances, but there are some small pillars that help them. It is no coincidence that during the Lockdowns, for example in Greece, where the economy was destroyed, black money turned backwards. In other words, from March 2020, when Lock down started until this April, the cash in the market, according to the Bank of Greece, increased by 3 billion. We're talking about one - how to say it now - fertilizer, excellent fertilizer, say in the black economy. But how does it drop so much black money? Who's throwing it? The ways are many, but every time authorities try to find and catch one end and slowly start unfolding the bucket, the circuits discover new paths again disappear. In recent years, however, more and more - we need to see this - unemployed young people are targeted by criminals. Now see what's playing on the market outside, worldwide not just here. So unemployed young people from such criminals are being targeted for money laundering, and this is the relevant new fruit, say, our Greek mafia, who makes businessmen, does gold jobs, Minister. What's the aim of these circuits? Young people who have a hard time finding a job at the pandemic. So what are those criminals doing? They are asked to wash money through their bank accounts. According to the investigation of the British organisation ‘Cifas’ in 2020, there were at least seventeen thousand incidents with individuals aged twenty-thirty years who carried money from illegal activities through their accounts in order to have the washing machine concerned, laundering. The phenomenon over the last three years has increased by 27%. The trade union "UK FINANCE" reports that criminals approach black money dealers through social media and ads for supposedly job find, send them direct mail, direct e-mail. Those who are convinced give the criminals the details of the bank accounts, account deposits are made, they carry them back elsewhere, and they keep a small share of pay. So here's a nice laundry that's playing and we have to do it. These are the new forms. So these transactions make it much more difficult for law enforcement forces to map this course of money, which may come from this money - we do not know where - from drug trafficking, human trafficking and terrorism, from anywhere. Obviously, then, the tentacles of these criminals have arrived in our country too, let us not be fooled. I said this because you know that the very difficult battle to combat black money trafficking does not allow us to waste whatever powers or whatever weapon we have in the arsenal - heavy weapons, control mechanisms - the country. Instead of throwing them into battle to fight and fight these big and important, we destroy them in chasing the Greeks, if they're standing or sitting in a sanitary store, if they wear the mask down or above the nose, if they wear the mask in the park, etc., and it's a principle of transparency. Millions of euros are being fined by hunting the Greeks on whether they wear the mask well, wrongly, if they stay standing, if they are outside twelve and five or twelve more than five, and we have to throw them in the battle. Because as long as we send the police to such meaningless chores, the majestics, unfortunately, laugh at our mess. So when we talk about black money, we are talking about serious crime, about complex crime. We are talking about organised crime with tentacles within and outside borders, which constantly finds new mechanisms, as I told you. We are now coming here, with the incorporation of European directives to combat it. Will you tell me not to incorporate them? All right, let's incorporate them. Yes, the incorporation of these directives is compulsory for our country as a Member State of the European Union. The point is where that leads. I'll say, nowhere. We say it doesn't lead anywhere. No directive on its own will prevent black money from moving uncontrolledly, especially when our country is being exploited by various experts and by reason of geographical location. For example, it is only by chance that non-governmental organisations with action in Greece are involved in money laundering by the Greek authorities, Minister. At the request of the International Financial Action Group, the Greek authorities are investigating cases of money laundering by NGOs. At the heart of these surveys there are four or five large non-governmental organisations, active in feeding and housing all these illegally entering our country, etc. NGOs were supposed to control them as a country, you would control them as a government. Okay, it's not Ciara, the New Democracy government, about the world black money laundering circuits, don't go crazy. We will not blame you for that, but for the NGOs, who do what they want on Greek territory, for the responsibility of you as a government and for the SYRIZA who ruled this country. So let's not be fooled. You know very well that your bill does not make a special cut. With this bill you add, if you like, some new forms, etc., but we think there are signs that criminals are saying that they are "soft" or "soft" and that the penalties are finally being reduced. And now we're going to a question of punishment. Here we are against you. I have been listening to you for the last few days, Minister, because the bill of tightening up the sentences - your various interviews are in the law. We're really wondering why it had to take two years to get the New Democracy to move on to a strict sentence? We talked about it two years ago here in the House, in the committees. You remember that since then the Greek Solution has been telling you to tighten up the Criminal Code, to change what SYRIZA has brought, which was devastating. You have the ability to do it. You blamed it and you did well and we were there a month before the elections. But you and the first law-enforcement of the Criminal Code is a hammer, light! We've lost two years, that's what I mean. There should be no loopholes in the law for criminals, no criminals. And, of course, the penalties imposed must be really appreciated. But in this part you seem to be making discounts without moral barriers. What do we do? We connect everything to everyday life, to society, to what happens. What's going on in the last few days? Because nothing goes unnoticed. If you had moral barriers, you wouldn't have had them propaganda with a very blunt eye - I won't say undisturbed - the way vaccines people who mostly do black work on the Internet. It's fruit of the time. I'm talking about influencer, Minister. Do you know them? Influencer is the ones that affect public opinion. He's got the other one, ten, twenty, fifty thousand followers, and he's doing his part. He gets out of here, gets out of there, black is all of course. I can't say that you're paying them with anything, black, to get selfie out with the vaccine stuck on the arm or butterfly that she's taking the treatment. We dug them out of the bars of Mykonos these influencer or some Turkish production and put them in our patron to affect the world. Hey, everybody in the fight for justice! What can we do, Minister? And you have also put the black influencer into propaganda, because our young people have not bitten - you are bringing it into an amendment today - the 150 euros. Of the ninety-five thousand young people in our country eighteen to twenty-five, how many did they get? Twenty, thirty, forty thousand? And most of them for hawali, "a, to get 150 euros, to get the tickets to Patmos." The young man won't go to Patmos. Where's he going? Mykonos. 150 euros! And you bring the amendment today, to put the stamp on 'EUR 115, take, you guys, a pocket'. If we can get a piece of legislation to the amendment, we can buy them the second one, Minister. 150 euros and the second one ever won by the government. To convince them to be vaccinated. Children need jobs - to be serious - and not bribes, nor influencers from the black influencer. Seven hundred thousand Greeks have left. So, with 150 euros? And now it's the young people's fault again. Watch out. It was the young people at first, Mr President. "It is a source of dispersal of parties", "responsible" etc. After these children pulled too much, the Prime Minister said, to give them 150 euros. Now it's the young people that get Alimos to party at the beech bar, they dance. Again, young people are responsible for dispersal. Decide, are you with the young people? You're not with the young people? Who are you with? You've lost your ass. And I want to make it clear here, Mr President, something. Given that the Greeks we are talking about are very well, at least they are directly in the world, understandable, without wooden languages, political fans, etc. I want to make one more thing clear as a Greek solution for everyone to understand. The Greek Solution is not against vaccines. The Greek Solution is against the mandatory vaccinations. The first time we talked about it. We say everyone decides what they want. It applies to our party, it applies to our families, it applies everywhere. My daughter asked me, "What should I do?" Whatever you want to do. I'll tell you what you're gonna do? If you want to do it, do it. Whatever you want to do. And in our party, everyone can do whatever they want. That is what we said from the first moment, against compulsoryity. To use your micropoliticals and say what you want, do what you want. We are clear, the statement is in the Minutes, a hundred times the President has said so, a hundred times we have said so. So, in the compulsion that you blackmail and around you are trying to impose on the Greeks, that's where we are against you. The Greek Solution is the only one - we closed two years in the Greek Parliament yesterday - a patriotic party in the Greek Parliament that we do not agree with such reasonableness. We're done. You put little machines on today to check that someone else is vaccinated to go and have a drink or a spaghetti. These are terrible things. You've made businessmen and restaurant goons and porters about who's going in or not. You've lost the ball. And finally who decides? Mr. Syssis told us that the committee has never recommended that the mask be removed from the outside, but it is a government decision. And today I was in the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency, talking about the ERR, democracy and equality, and we have to appear on the channels two years later, but this gentleman was singing again - and said that the committee would decide today if the decision were to pass, Mr President, to ban the entry into closed areas of non-vaccinated animals. Oh, now that it's 'jiz', we're pulling it off of us. It's the committee's decision! Do you decide who decides, the committee or you? It's not a ball, people in your hands. I'm not going to the independent authorities again. Have you seen the statistics of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from criminal activities? It is not just by reducing controls in 2020, it has been zeroed in a few months' time. Specific information for the months of September, October, no case of money laundering was referred to the public prosecutors. Zero money was committed as suspects. But is that possible? Zero? Is that how the independent authorities work? We pay them gold! There are too many of them and they are burdening the state budget and so on. All you care about is cutting fines for the Transparency Authority to the Greeks who weren't wearing the mask properly. As far as the provisions of the bill are concerned, you will tell me: 'Well, okay, a European directive is. What are you gonna vote for? Yes, no, perhaps'? We don't trust you that you can work properly. That is why we do not give the power to move forward. We don't trust you, not personally, but as government you have proved you can't. We need immediate reinforcement of these provisions to speed up the administration of justice. I would like to point out that the courts in the country have great shortcomings. On the one hand, we have to speed up, and on the other hand we have to do so. So we need backup at all levels. Laws that remain on paper, because good legislation, we hope that it will not be left on paper, but that we see it actually applied, because who doesn't want black money to be smashed, who doesn't want the country to walk, who doesn't want all of this, but here we have a judiciary here from New Democracy. July is unbelievable. He must have eight ten bills. On the one hand, you say that you have strong legislative action, on the other hand, we are closing the House for a month. Don't hang her up for a month. We'll sit here and work if the country needs us. That's why we're getting paid for by the Greek people. We do not have to close down in August now a month and here we legislate like crazy, three bills every week. Our head's on fire. I want to close with a comment, Minister, because Mrs Keramea's bill really comes. We talked about it last time, we talked about it today. It is shameful that you close and merge two church schools in both Iannina and Thessaloniki. It's really embarrassing. The reactions are huge. We'll talk about it and when this bill comes. From us, Minister, 'yes' will not get it. We wish good luck, because if you succeed in this bill, the country will win, although we doubt it very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Ms Angeliki Adamopoulou, a special speaker in Mera25, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, according to estimates by EUROPOL and other bodies, the value of suspicious transactions within Europe is about 1.3%, with some 2.5% of its GDP, namely from just one Greek GDP to a sum of Greece, Hungary and Cyprus. And be careful, these estimates do not almost ever include the transactions related to the financing of terrorism, which are even more difficult to identify. The real picture, that is, is much worse. It is obvious that the European Union needs a stronger and more consistent framework of supervision to combat money laundering. Although the value of suspicious transactions within Europe is estimated at hundreds of billions of euros, the Union's model and approach to preventing and combating laundering and terrorist financing are seen to be fragmented. Its competent bodies are responsible for developing central and coordination policy, but operational management is largely carried out at national level. And this operational management depends basically on two factors. Firstly, the effectiveness of the services and infrastructures of each Member State, i.e. whether those responsible are doing their job in each country and, secondly, the will of the respective government. So just to say it, from whether the government really wants to activate these appropriate mechanisms or if it wants to do the wrong thing. Action at European Union level to combat money laundering and terrorist financing has serious weaknesses and the Union's surveillance framework is very little coordinated, with neither a consistent approach nor equal treatment. The European Commission, which develops policy, monitors the transposition of legislation into the Member States and conducts the risk analysis. It is faced with institutional and operationally serious shortcomings in the performance of these tasks. And that's because the legislation is complicated. Its application is slow and uneven. The risk assessment shall not indicate time changes. There is a geographical focus and it does not effectively prejudge the risks. To date, the Union has not even drawn up an autonomous list of high-risk third countries, namely countries that pose a threat to the internal market in terms of money laundering. Neither the committee has been able to present updated statistics on this issue, which makes it difficult to assess the money laundering and terrorist financing in the European Union itself. Who's saying all this? I don't say it either, Mera25. In other words, it's not even a particular person's or a scientist's opinion. These were said in their annual report by the auditors of the European Court of Auditors of the famous Court of Auditors of the European Union, which makes thorough evaluations of the performance of the Union's executive bodies and has full access to internal audits. What else happened? That the European Banking Authority, although it has and has used the power to investigate potential violations of Union law in this area, has, since 2010, seen only one infringement related to money laundering and terrorist financing, while no investigation has taken place at all on its own initiative. What else did the auditors find? Evidence that attempts to exert external pressure on members of the Board of Supervisors of the European Banking Authority at the same time as being under discussion following a violation of Union law. Listen to how raw they formulate it: 'It therefore appears that the high-level decisions of the European Banking Authority may have been influenced by national interests. Similar were our conclusions in the 2019 report on the stress tests of the European Banking Authority". One last point the auditors raised was taking into account the risk of money laundering in the prudential supervision of banks in the euro area. I am referring, in other words, to compliance with due diligence measures in suspicious transactions. They told us this paradox. That the European Central Bank, which is the direct supervisory mechanism and body of central and large banks since 2014, has actually started to exchange information with national supervisory authorities but continues to have neither the responsibility nor the power to investigate how this information is exploited by national supervisory authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, you see that messages coming from the central level are very pessimistic. I have also referred specifically to other surveys of institutions and serious analysts which I will not repeat, but which are worth the following. With one mouth, one voice, these studies say the same poem: that things are very loose, they are a lot of laser. That the procedures are going to hurt. The few cases that are normally identified usually occur in specific stages. We have poor supervisory mechanisms at European level. Unfair policies or other interventions are visible. Of course, it is the banks, both commercial and central. We therefore understand where the central problem is identified. We will now make a formal incorporation of a directive. We'll say we've transferred Union law, that we're improving ours. We will also make the relevant legislative remarks. We'll agree, we'll disagree. In the end these new provisions will be passed. On paper, therefore, this whole exercise is completed. Well, theoretically. The point is, what is going on in the battlefield? When, then, are we going to deal with all the problems I have put forward and say again that the most competent technocrats of the European Union itself are finding out? What, for our part, do we do as Greece individually but also as a member of the European Union? Are we going to continue to fortify behind the fact that the more than ten years of economic crisis has not allowed very large routing in our country - estimated? Do we know exactly how much this is? So should not such arguments be heard and we should not be talking about better supervision, better performance, where problems are identified? The delays and inactions concern specific control mechanisms, in particular procedural stages. All this is well known. So you know what the gaps are and where you need to focus inside. We will monitor closely, continue to insist on such initiatives, as will better deal with tax evasion, which is, moreover, closely linked to laundering. For the outside I will repeat, Minister, my encouragement to create a stable line towards the European Union on washing, because our performance in this area also affects the assessments of Greek banks and, more generally, our financial system. So the position of our country must be clear. More openness between Member States, more accountability, more transparency, more efficiency and efficiency from national authorities. And when the Europeans move our fingers, we find the courage to remind them that the problem is primarily European and that we will in no way accept the role of scapegoat when the guinea pigeons themselves are - and very much - the nest. I'm closing up with legal issues. In addition to the proposals that I have put forward in committee, I join with those that Mr Castagnides has brought. I would also like to pay particular attention to the remarks made by the Criminals Union, which I wholeheartedly welcome. First of all, the question referred to in Article 4, paragraph 3, where it provides that the evidence and circumstances of basic crime need not be detailed. But here there is almost a faithful copy of Article 3(3)(b) of the directive. There is a strong risk that this regulation will be misinterpreted in the courts, that the judges will have to judge that they do not need to deal in detail with basic crime, considering little - very given that it has been committed, even though this basic crime and its circumstances are elements of the objective nature of the legitimacy itself. Secondly, Article 6(1)(d) last paragraph, which you changed in the course, originally provided that if basic crime was punishable as a crime and legalisation was committed professionally, imprisoned and punished for up to five hundred daily units. You are now saying that there is imprisonment and a penalty of two thousand to ten thousand daily units. However, laundering is not meant to be punished more severely than basic crime, since we know that it is of a monitoring character. There is also a mistake: you choose the same sentence, five to fifteen years, for all acts of legitimisation that are carried out professionally, regardless of whether basic crime is punished to the extent of a crime or offence, and this is a direct violation of the principle of proportionality of the sentences of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. And I'm ending up with the issue of freezing assets in Article 9. You must also review here, because, with the possibility of imposing vague obligations, you are insulting the presumption of innocence and, at the same time, transfer to the defendant's back all the weaknesses and delays of the system that fails to complete the proceedings in reasonable time. I think it is a provision which will give rise to negative case-law from the Court of Justice in Strasbourg and which is why I would ask you to correct it in accordance with the comments made by the criminals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. After the end of the speeches of the rapporteurs and of the special speakers, we enter the first circle of speakers. Mr Angelos Tsigris has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos from SYRIZA. It goes without saying that Parliamentary Representatives can ask for the floor to speak, but at least two Members' seats must be precedented. Here you go, Mr. Cigri.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this legislation is a first-class opportunity to show as a political system that we can reach agreement on that. But why is this bill self-evident and why should we finally agree? Because, we are talking about organised crime and terrorism, two of the most serious threats facing the planet and not just a planet, but first and foremost, the European Union, and let me tell you more than all the states, the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union, our country at the most sensitive point, at the south-east corner of these extreme sensitive borders, where people and materials are being moved, illegally most of the time. Ladies and gentlemen, these two threats, organised crime and terrorism, are difficult to control, for the simple reason that they are above and beyond national governments and national borders. They don't have a homeland, they only have one faith, the illegal gain. How are we going to deal with these two difficultly controlled threats? By addressing the money laundering, their illegal revenues. What we are talking about in dealing with money laundering. But how can it be? We need to see exactly how it's done, because if we don't see how it's done, we'll never face it. The laundering of black money is first and foremost done by converting the illegal revenues of criminal organisations into another form, in order to remove them from the source of their origin. This is done by introducing these illegal revenues into the individual financial systems of the States, not everything where they can. This is done in two ways: either by breaking large amounts into smaller amounts and depositing in bank accounts or by buying financial products. Subsequently, a number of transactions are made in order to remove the amounts concerned from the source of their origin. Finally, it is attempting to integrate them into the field of legal economy. And how's that working out? Through investment in large business plans. Ladies and gentlemen, all the measurements of world public opinion say that we must tackle organised crime and terrorism, shield our society from these two threats. And that's what we do today. We have been reviewing our legislative arsenal for many years in order to be more effective, more direct in the prevention and repression of these two threats. This is how we become more effective in dealing with organised crime. We are becoming more effective in dealing with money laundering, but we are, in many cases, stopping the financing of terrorism both domestic and transnational. Improving and modernising our legislative arsenal, ladies and gentlemen, is essential as ever, because we must resist as a country and as an international community the modern threats and mutant forms of transnational organized crime. Ladies and gentlemen, crime and societies are changing with them. So we cannot deal with the 21st-century crime with the 20th-century retailers. As long as it runs, it thwarts, crime changes, too, to change the tools of dealing with it. But how does this legislation, ladies and gentlemen, do it, what we have in our hands and are called upon today to vote on it? Firstly, by updating the list of basic offences - other offences were and others we find and we need to be more up-to-date, more aware of the remodeling of the penalties provided for -, by aligning the conditions and procedures for confiscation and freezing of money laundering products, by the criminal code, by providing for sanctions, not only for persons but also for legal entities and for legal persons, by the immediate transposition of the recent Community directive, but also by the rational distribution of the judicial material to the various administrative courts and I would say by improving more generally the award of administrative justice. Ladies and gentlemen, give the basis of this which I shall report to you immediately. According to the United Nations Organization and the latest Secretary-General's report, every year the amount of the world's black money is between 2% and 5% of the world's gross national product. This is a global phenomenon. This is a state in a state where there are trillions of dollars or euros, as you wish, which is smashing consciences and threatening everyone. But this practice must be known, ladies and gentlemen, is more pronounced in the states that have a perforated financial system. That is where organized crime is intervening, and that is where it actually launders its illegal income. That is why we do not only need legislative initiatives by national states but also need supranational legislative efforts. And at European Union level, we must harmonise our Community law in order to be effective and not - which is, now, a risk of such criminal organisations coming into contact with the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are proving our firm will to provide an effective response to organised crime and terrorism. However, we do not do so with blesses, not with announcements of intent, nor with vague general condemnations of the phenomenon. We do it with legalization, with concrete measures, with suggestions. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to agree and to unite and vote for this bill together, but also for one more reason. Mr President, may I say to this House a saying of an old top European Union official who said that if we fail to deal with environmental damage and organised crime, unfortunately the 21st century will not end. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not a meteorologist and I cannot guarantee you necessary for climate change. However, as a forensicist I sign it: If the international community does not deal with it, and we also have a duty as a country to participate, organised crime and international terrorism, the 21st century will not have a good deal to do. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Cigri. The reason is now Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos from SYRIZA and immediately after Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a good time that I am succeeding in Step by the excellent colleague, Mr Tsigris, who has also set social parameters in the legislation under discussion, and that is where I shall begin. We are talking about combating money laundering. I have received the first shock, ladies and gentlemen, where the representative of the Bank of Greece said that, at the moment when we are talking about ratifying the directive, the European Union is already working on a new regulation that meets the current needs of combating money laundering. This is an indication of the dynamics of this industry, the revenues from illegal activities. and the reflexes that the legal order and organised society must show. But I would like the Radical Left coalition to raise a deeply political and many ideological issue. How is it possible to spread these endless amounts of black money through the banking system? We must be very clear and tell all tons that if there is no synergy between the banking system and the stock exchanges, it is not possible to implement this transformation of illegal income into legal revenues. Can we be across the banking system? Can we put insurance systems, control mechanisms, conflict with what is today the quintussy of neoliberalism, the worship of the irresponsible movement of capital? Are we ready to do this as a political system? And what political forces can come into confrontation with the uterus of these scandals, with the habitat in which this greenhouse of corruption endures? I say this unequivocally: we forces of the renewing radical left are intent, we are intent and capable of conflicting. The future of the conflict cannot be specified, but we must all agree that if there are no insurance margins in the banking system, in stock exchanges and in financial activity, there can be no effective, effective and effective response to the phenomenon. Why is this fight so important? Firstly, because it strengthens and highlights the importance of the rule of law, because a rule of law cannot close its eyes in gray areas of building activity, and even areas which have an extremely large economic footprint, so that they effectively cancel out any attempt by organised society to hit crime and also corrupt consciences. In other words, people's social consciousness is being destroyed in this way, and that is a parameter that we must take very seriously into account. Secondly, because institutional action is measurable. There's the organism that counts. There is a list in which countries are classified according to the extent to which this phenomenon of money laundering is being combated. We believe that Law 4557/2018, the SYRIZA government's law, was part of this effort to examine it by the FATF international financial action team. In the context of the national assessment process, an on-the-spot assessment was carried out in October and November 2018 and the final procedure in June 2019 in Orlando. The country's high degree of compliance with international standards has been recognised and has been regularly monitored as a limited number of countries have succeeded. Success was also recognised by the Government of New Democracy by a Communication from the Ministry of Finance on 3 September 2019, where he was forced to admit that success is primarily credited to the Government of SYRIZA. Today, then, there is a serious possibility that, following the country's successful examination in June 2019 by the FATF to prevent and suppress dirty money laundering, the country will re-enter adventures. The juncture and circumstances set out yesterday to discuss the staffing of the fight against money laundering. We said here in this Chamber - and I was the rapporteur at that time - and we had objected to the extension of the choice of people with pensionable judges who do not enjoy the presumption of independence like those who are active. The Minister brought two worthwhile people to committee yesterday, but in this process, with the Minister's choice, you understand that they have found our opposition. I have two legal remarks and I ask that we record them. Mr Kastanides is right to say that Case IV of Article 2 of Law 4557 must remain unmistakable because it is a constant crime and effectively strengthens the patronage against money laundering. Furthermore, Article 7(3) of the draft law talks about the confiscation which is being ordered, and when no prosecution has been committed on account of the death of the defendant or the prosecution has ceased on account of death or has been declared inadmissible. There is a very serious issue here, too. The person involved died, no criminal prosecution, no property is founded. How long will it be committed? Most of the legal issues are created, because he, as a heir, will accept to claim the lifting of the confiscation, joins his confiscation and personal property now, because he becomes united all. There are serious issues which we must not go beyond. I am closing with the Minister's request yesterday to close the debate on the reproach he has put to us SYRIZA Members that we are very interested in the crimes of the white collar. It's not true, Minister, what you charged us with. The Left's opposition to crime is total and we always look for the causes. White collar crimes, however, have one particular feature. White collar crimes develop in synergy with the institutions of society, whether they are the political elites or the banks. In this sense, then, the crimes of the white collar are attacking democracy and therefore a political force like SYRIZA has them at first sight, without abandoning the other crime, which is usually an individual activity that is part of a social reality and does not have the importance of the crimes of the white collar. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Xanthopoulou. The reason is now Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement and immediately after Mr. Kokalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u21	I am sorry, Mr President, I would like the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u22	Excuse me, Mrs. Liikali. Here, Minister, you have the floor to develop the amendment to extend postal contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment which the President has just mentioned. He's got three articles. The first article is an extension of the contract that exists for the reduced press invoice, which we cover and which the ELTAs serve. There's been a competition, the offer's been submitted. The contract will be signed by September in order to avoid gaps in the reduced press tariff. We are giving an extension on the same terms and conditions as the tender had been awarded, in April of '21 the competition had been completed, and in any case, on a constant basis, this had been done. Now we ran the competition, and by September it will be over by the Court of Auditors, so it will proceed. The second article is a legislative improvement of a legislative provision adopted in February 1921, and relates to the possibility of adjusting the EAEC to the debts incurred by the media for the seventeen two instalments with a minimum of EUR 100 and regulating some issues - this is, in particular, legislative change - the regulation of instalments arising after the implementation of the law in order to facilitate the media in particular. The third article, due to the pandemic, gives an extension to the board of the "Athens News Agency" until 31/10, so that the worker's representative can also be elected. It was also a request from the WTO. These are the provisions, they are at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u24	Is there any colleague who wants to ask a precise question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u26	Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u27	Minister, I would just like a clarification. General media or regional channels? So is it all television stations inside, or is it only about regional channels and sites? I would like to make it clear if you know that, in order to know whether or not we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u28	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u29	As he expressly says, they are regional content providers, that is, regional channels, radio stations and the magazine press, as well as internet businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u30	So, they're not the big channels?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u31	Oh, no. Not anyway. They're the little ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u32	But all the radios?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u33	Yeah, yeah, all the radios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u34	But not the channels?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u35	Not the channels. It's the regional channels. It's almost everything except national channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, because I think that and I have said it before from the Step of the House - not because you are Thessalonica, Minister - that you are credible as Minister and as a human being, we do not have the Prime Minister to ask him if they were finally pinched and pinned, we will ask you then. Did they bite the bait and the young people were pinned? Was the wave of the vaccination we talked about here in this Chamber last week? Or is the fourth wave of the pandemic going on in July? Because this debate on the ratification and incorporation of this directive is not taking place in a politically neutral year, but in a very important year when it comes to developments in the country and the issues that are, as we say, the first line. Apart from those who don't seem to be pinching, what surely concerns us in a second shot is the people of the focus - and this is because I had a meeting just the other day with them and indeed with Thessaly, Mr. Minister, which concerns you personally one who attracts your origin from there - and people simply said: But is it possible for us to play the thieves and policemen with the people who come to have fun, eat, assemble socially within the pandemic and with all that is lurking society? And if, in fact, I'm saying this, it's because I see the internet flooding two years and one day from the start of the country's governance by New Democracy. Two years and one day of triumphs, reformist sectors, successful economic policies, joyful gospels in social media! If anyone notices you in detail, then we have great reforms that have already changed the country, in which direction you did not tell us. What if the promises stayed promises? What if most of what you told us is written in your election program alone? Fortunately, of course, a promise didn't keep it and had to do with the ESS. Because I am one of those who remember Mr. Kikilias, the Minister of Health, when in January 1920 just before the beginning of the pandemic he visited Larissa and our regional hospital, and then he talked about PPP pilots and dubious partnerships for the city’s hospitals. Your government stirred, of course, after the calamity that hit our door and, of course, you showed from here, you showed from there, look into the private person, search your partner, search the honor of the days. You didn't find it. What did you find? ESS again, you found our ESS, the biggest final reform of the century, which PASOK did and his follow-up supported the Change Movement, to be here bright and lead you to our DNA and our political rankings, which of course I understand the difficulty, since the copy cannot easily follow the original. In any case, however, Minister, there is a government plan right now, and I see that while he's hiking the fourth wave of the pandemic and there's no pinching on those who had to bite, I'm afraid I can see that he starts and opens a debate at the moment about how to change the ESS and get rationalized. And this is a new story that you are opening up to the world, how exactly will hospitals become the very closest, scattered structures that cannot, in fact, provide good health benefits in the world, and how you will do it better, in the pandemic, uniting, shrinking and saying that you are supposed to be rationalizing. All of this is happening with uninvasive people. Why were they not convinced, why did the campaign not work and why is it being thrown to the question right now? You can't answer that. You said it was the young people's fault. Then you said it was the middle ages, then it was the ages of sixty, the under sixty, the over eighty, the under eighty. Did you finally decide where the ball stops? Is it everyone's fault? Is it the citizens' fault and none of you? You guys do everything right? Does it not go any further than your mind that is a common place to everyone now, that it was a hasty opening of the activities and “shooting the masks out”, because now you are rethinking to put the masks back on, why didn’t you convince anyone, but why did you get out and be “emptied” by the Committee of Infectiouss and told you that “we never said “fly the masks out”? We'll put them back in the next few days. So serious policies you have in the communication of the pandemic. And that is where we really need serious policies. Because when, my Minister, the other one comes and tells you that "with what I heard about AstraZeneca" - who collected it as if it were garbage under the carpet - "I am not inoculated, because I'm afraid", then a few things you have to answer to him. Even when the scientific view does not come out and the government does not boldly come forward and you hide behind many and keep a balance of terror. However, you do not speak clearly about the mandatory vaccinations. Clean! Political responsibility must be assumed by the ruler, not hide behind the Civic Opposition, behind us, which, anyway, apart from our good morning, has been in everything, we have told it a long time ago. With regard to the debate that is taking place today and always with regard to the two years and one day, you will bring, my Minister, a bill which is once again linked to the current situation, because it is once again linked to the development areas of the country. The citizen will always think in the back of his mind that 'here we are talking about clarifying effectively, we are talking about a punishing regime in respect of laundry'. Of course I do. Of course he's consenting. But in what truly developmental environment, when businesses, loans, guarantees, small and medium-sized enterprises are located in the wall? When the world of private sector work made it a rubber world, with flexible so-called 21st century operations, but referring to the Middle Ages? Then how can anyone really care about the fines legal, as we say, and about the finest letter? Don't you really see, now that we've drawn two parallel streets of pink and blue admission and narrative when SYRIZA's standards and experimental schools are abolished with a general equation from below, and you're responding with the cutting off of the importers in PI and incredibly discriminatory policies in favour of private colleges? SYRIZA cut off, you do nothing for the three hundred forty - six thousand fellow citizens who are still waiting for the pension. SYRIZA appointed posters, you have already exceeded the number of retired people since the first year of governance. We don't. You will say that "this is the opposition, the Change Movement, he's here to oppose us". My Minister, you know me personally as to whether I have an opposition or not. The MEP tells you, George Kyrchos, who wrote self-evidently states that "in the air again the design of the state of staff". Why are you only talking about positive scenarios while you do not consider the negative data at all? You got into the glass, made a sound room. You like to tell you and you like to hear what you want to hear, you have no contact with the real world outside, but you haven't thought that this is a glass that slowly ends oxygen. And politically history has shown that when the oxygen ends, the big ones start. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me a few seconds to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u38	You're welcome, Mrs. Litikoli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u39	I will make a reference to this bill, because our rapporteurs, our experienced parliamentary representative and former Minister of State, Mr Kastanides, have said so. My colleagues have referred to the points he has made. They'll find us in complete agreement. I think they are also concerned with the staff of your ministry, Minister. The fact that we have delayed the incorporation of European legislation and we are even punished for this, I do not have to say that it is a disease now occupied by the Greek legislative system and must be stopped. Put in a row, one class. You can do that, and I think we should be concerned about this last time. As regards, Minister, the legislation on laundry, it has to be strict and even stronger with modern data. And it needs to be thought about your Ministry seriously and Article 9(9) of the draft law “the commitment is automatically withdrawn if there is no irrevocable referral to the audience within five years of the imposition of the measure”, which unduly deviates from the applicable Article 262(4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Technical theme. However, I read everything that exists and the association of criminalists and the various conclusions on this article. It is wrong, we must correct this, we must see and correct it, because it is paradoxical and unorthodox. After all, these debates in Parliament give us not only consensus on ratification - which will exist in ratification of the bill - but also the possibility of launching a fruitful debate on the real importance of the country that exists outside this Chamber. And the country boasts. Do you hear me? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u40	The next speaker is Andreas Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Vassilis Kokalis from SYRIZA. I repeat that the parliamentary representatives can speak slowly. Mr. Nicolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, justice as a key pillar of the democratic culture contributes not only to ensuring its proper functioning but also to social peace and to the security of citizens. The security of citizens against all forms of criminal activity is a priority for the New Democracy Government as a precondition for the exercise of the constitutional freedoms of citizens. To this end, it takes a series of legislative initiatives, such as today's, but also constantly strengthens the Greek Police. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the topics of this draft law, to address the successes that the Greek Police have seen in recent years. I am referring not only to the detection of atrocious crime in the Sweet Waters but also to other criminal acts of organised crime, assumptions that have taken place throughout the last decade, but also to the detection of theft and the recovery of top works of art with huge economic value but also with huge symbolism for the Greek people. But I must also mention the arrest of the fugitive deputy chief of the Golden Dawn criminal organisation and former MP Christos Papapas. This is an arrest that has nothing to do with the operational adequacy of the Greek Police, but it is particularly important because it closed a cycle that injured the country. With the arrest of Christos Pappas by ELAS, the chapter of the criminal organization "Golden Dawn" was closed. Especially in a country like Greece that paid a heavy blood tax to Nazism and Fascism the definitive end of such totalitarian ideologies is a step forward for the Hellenic Republic, a step for a fairer and more democratic society. Once again, the Civic Opposition, which in a petty and misery attempted to exploit some criminal activities and draw political arguments by cancelling the enormous effort of the Greek Police, is being disproved. Activities which, unfortunately, have happened to a greater extent in the past, as the official statistics show, and unfortunately also happen today. Let, at least, the Civic Opportunism congratulate the Greek Police and the Ministry's political leadership on these successes, in the same way that it has so far been making miserable and hard criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to combat crime must be lasting and undoubtedly not only about the repression but also about the prevention and the existence of the appropriate legislative framework, which will not only work punishing but also deterrently. In this context, the draft law we are called upon to discuss and vote on today, incorporating into Greek legislation the relevant European Parliament directive on combating money laundering. The relevant legislation shall be modernised, updated and rationalised in order to align it with recent legislative and legal developments at national and European level and to allow for more effective and faster cross-border cooperation between the competent authorities. A clear and fair legal framework is created to deal with the perpetrators of criminal money laundering offences imposing proportionate and dissuasive penalties and making clear conditions for freezing and confiscation of property directly or indirectly from criminal activity. It is not only criminal activities from which the property to be legalised, but crimes based on changes in the Criminal Code, including new offences, are also listed. The distribution of criminal activities is carried out in categories, of which the first twenty comprises specific crimes such as criminal organisation, terrorist acts, bribery and others, while the latter is more general and includes any other crime punishable by means of custodial freedom from which there is a property advantage, which means that such crimes include any offence or offence which is not specifically provided for in the list of basic offences referred to in Article 5 of the draft law, and under specific conditions may constitute the main offence of legalisation. At the same time, the penalties provided for are reshapes so that they are fair, proportionate and dissuasive, and a modern framework is established for the confiscation and freezing of the criminal product in line with those provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, with due regard for the adequate protection of the rights of injured persons and third parties. In this way, a solid grid of criminal dealing with the perpetrators of money laundering is being formed, which adequately covers all the essential and procedural issues connected with this crime. This ensures the transparency of institutions, the proper and fair treatment of offenders and, at the same time, the confidence of citizens in the proper administration of justice is stimulated. The provisions governing the distribution of judicial material between the administrative courts are important, since statistically speaking, there is an unequal distribution, resulting in serious malfunctions and a serious delay in the administration of justice. A more rational distribution of cases is taking place between the administrative courts, while the organic positions of the judges of the ordinary administrative courts have increased since 1 September 2021. These forecasts contribute substantially to speeding up administrative justice and making it easier for citizens to seek judicial protection. This draft law is therefore an important step for Greek justice, as it strengthens the confidence of society in the institution, works in favour of the social system and is part of the Government's reform programme which has not only been abandoned in the unforeseen pandemic crisis but is strengthened at a rapid rate. The government has invested in this upward trend, which is perceived by the introduction of justice into the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and by modernising it along with the modernisation of public administration and the strengthening of transparency in all manifestations of state function, which have as their final recipient the citizen. This draft law comes to contribute to the development of justice and its adaptation to the current needs in the interests of all citizens. I therefore urge you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you too, Mr Nicolakopoulou, for keeping time. Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis from SYRIZA is now being asked to speak, and immediately after the speech Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, money laundering, money laundering is one of the laws which has been subject to strong disagreements in practice. It is a law, since 1995 the first law, which has faced many difficulties from its performers. In my view, these difficulties were due to the wrong legislative interventions, some of which were unsuccessful legislative interventions. What is money laundering, money laundering from criminal activity? In accordance with the European treaties, which started in 1995 and continue, according to the directives that we are obliged to incorporate, it is a criminal activity described as a perpetrator or perpetrators who are mainly critical offences, and these perpetrators are involved in an organised group which is intended to add yet another responsibility to the strengthening of intrusion - that is the most important - for controlling the economy and power, whether the economy is national or the power is local. In what way? By attempting to make the property arising from a specific criminal activity legal, investing in legal sectors of the economy. Law 3691/2008 came, and by this law any criminal act that had a financial result could also be money laundering, could also be black money laundering. Ladies and gentlemen, this paradox is happening. Our country, unfortunately, at the limits of international legalisation, unconscious and unable to conceive the true version of money laundering, has widened the basis of the crime, has created a criminal matter so that it can tell the European institutions aloud, look at how many convictions we have for money laundering. But is that really what the legislator wants? It is no coincidence that the most critical problems faced by the law were whether the perpetrator of the main crime could be the same as the perpetrator of the aftermath, the next offense. What's the legal good? Have you ever wondered, at least the lawyers offended by these two offences? Is it the same or is it different? All this has been dealt with by case law. It is a pity that it is not taken into account important and rich case-law, at least as paving the way for the relevant legislation. We have, on the one hand, basic crimes, of which at least the interpreter of the law can draw on some important things, and in the case of KA, any criminal act threatened with deprivation of freedom and, therefore, all offences which have economic consequences. [[At this point the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This has led to crimes escaping together with criminal offences as accompanying offences the offence of money laundering from criminal activity. The purpose of the European treaties, which we incorporate, seems to me to be not. Let me give you an example, Minister: Small and medium-sized businessman owes tax from not paying VAT - the offence of not paying debts to the State has therefore been committed - and at the same time donating his son a motorcycle. Would it or not be considered to be money laundering from criminal activity if the main offence, which is standardised in the law, has been committed? It is noteworthy here to say that in 1998 the Strasbourg Convention was ratified. In this contract, Minister - and correct me, I do not know the follow-up - our country retained a reservation under Article 6. What did that reservation say? That I, as a country, consider these crimes to be fundamental, and that is described in the original law of 1995 in Article 1. This reservation was notified to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and became applicable to national law. I do not know if this reservation has been lifted. Why am I saying that? If the list of offences, Minister, increases or decreases, we will in fact have a change of this reservation. A problem is the case for the offences referred to in paragraph 1, a conviction without the identification of the offenders. Minister, a basic principle of criminal law is violated, the presumption of innocence. Not with cuffs. At least take serious account of the case law of the Supreme Courts, that the time and face of the perpetrator should be specified in the case of the previous criminal activity. Minister, you've forgotten their lawyers. And not just have you forgotten them, but the government's behaviour towards the law enforcement body, the first scientific association in our country, is totally derogatory and insulting. Apart from the gross allowance of 600 euros, nothing more. There are very few lawyers who have joined the repayable advance. Why such disgraceful behavior for lawyers? And to remind you the lawyers closed the courts on a state order. So, by object, because of the quarantine, they couldn't work. And a reminder: What about the energy degradation of Judge Larissa? It's been two years since your announcements in Larissa. Where is this work located? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u44	New Democracy's colleague, Evros Anastasios Pschakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, thank you very much. You respond, to a large extent, as far as the love you have for Evros and rightly the Hebrews appreciate you and love you. Ladies and gentlemen, they were completed two years ago by the winning election process of 2019, when the New Democracy, our great sidelines, and our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis, received a clear mandate to get the country out of the revelation, two years that were marked by critical situations that the New Democracy Government successfully faced, restoring the confidence of the citizens and the international image of the country. At the forefront of the pandemic, in this undisturbed war, with the opponent unknown, there is considerable room for improving the rate of vaccination among the citizens. That's what concerns us all. The "freedom" operation has been designed and implemented by offering the maximum tool for returning to normality, the vaccine against COVID -19. I appreciate, Mr President-in-Office, that the protagonists, who can enjoy the reservation and the possibility of fear of those fellow citizens who have not yet come to the vaccination centres, are the medical community, the family doctor, the working doctor, the service doctor, the outdoor doctor. These are trusted persons, they are the opinion guides on the matter. Their guidance, world information, trust that has been built with their patients can make a major contribution to getting out of the pandemic. Now on the bill. This draft law reflects, Minister, the effort of the current government and your Ministry to make the legal system of the country shielded and effective. It strengthens the legal arsenal of the Greek judge and better organises the weaknesses of the administrative organisation of courts and law enforcement authorities in order to address organised international crime, a matter of major importance that concerns Greek society, European and global over time. Our country, however, belongs to the great European family and is in line with European rules. We are responding to the developments that have taken place in the case-law in recent years at national and European level by incorporating the Union directive, which seeks to reshape and strengthen the existing institutional framework for combating money laundering. We are updating the list of basic offences related to the money laundering of such activities, which are constantly evolving and which affect the credibility of countries, erod society and raise issues of corruption and black money from illegal activities, while, at the same time, reforming the framework of penalties and sanctions in order to bring about alignment with the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Adequately, cross-border, inter-industrial and inter-service cooperation is ensured, with a view to the efficiency of the State, more rapid and respecting the procedural guarantees in order to achieve everything. Characteristics, the list is enriched with more criminal acts such as cross-border VAT fraud, which we see in the remote region of Evros and crimes for the criminal protection of the European Union's interests. Taking into account that the nature of the offences has strong cross-border assessment and terminology, the possibility that the public prosecutors and judicial authorities can legally assess the Member State - and on the basis of the Criminal Code and the penal legislation - our offences committed abroad and affecting the interests of the Member State - are very important. It is now clearly predicted that any other crimes punishable by means of a custodial sentence, from which there is a benefit, that is, felonies and offences if necessary, are included in the list of basic offences. Therefore, in no case will it be either smaller, but no lighter, as Czechoslovakia is claiming. This legislative initiative therefore solves major issues, major issues among states, ensuring the necessary transparency and purity. I consider it absolutely essential that this draft law should also be framed by an institutional framework, Minister, for the use of encryption, both at Europe and at international level. It's a one-way road. It is known to the competent authorities that organised crime often consciously chooses electronic currencies as an alternative to the banking system as a means of money laundering from criminal activities. The blurred and uncontrolled landscape of encryption is ideally offered for the laundering of illegal revenues, as the conversion and redemption routes remain unclear. At the same time, in the context of the control of the origin of revenues and the execution of binding, confiscation of assets by the State would contribute effectively to a complete and up-to-date Capacity Register. A database, including movable assets, is needed in order to check their source of origin, but also to be bound when the law so decides. It is high time, because now we have the state's transformation into digital, and that is a very useful tool for what I said before. It is understandable and clear that attracting liquidity is a vital objective for each bank, but this objective should not be an alibi to the implementation of the directives relating to the origin of the deposits. Citizens and bank managers should comply with the rules relating to the transfer of funds and sufficient documentation of such origin. I think it is time to create the whole environment of absolute confidence and cooperation at these two levels. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government has already taken important steps to make the country a transparent and operational rule of law. In fact, with the presence of two excellent scientists, the Minister and the State Secretary, a new Code of Judiciary was passed, and from what you said, Minister, in the context of parliamentary control, changes to the Criminal Code in order to prevent crime and to shield the Greek society. This is also part of this draft law, which I am voting for. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u46	Mr. George Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. The directive to be incorporated, ladies and gentlemen, specialises in provisions of primary Union law, in particular Article 83(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This article lays down minimum rules for the definition of criminal offences and penalties in the areas of particularly serious crime with a cross-border dimension, as is money laundering. Both primary and secondary Union law fall within the area of freedom, security and justice of Articles 67 et seq. of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is an area which primarily combines or rather aims to achieve two fundamental objectives. On the one hand, the possibility for all citizens of the Member States of the European Union to move freely on its territory, without being subject to internal border controls. On the other hand, to address the serious risks arising from this freedom and the other risks guaranteed by the law of the European Union. Therefore, and in accordance with the fundamental principle of subsidiarity, both the Union and the national legislature are required to ensure that the risks posed by crimes with a strong cross-border dimension are dealt with as much as possible in the field of substantive criminal law. The statistics from EUROJUST's annual report for 2020 were made available to us days ago. The new cases of Eurojust in the area of money laundering are five hundred and ninety-five, while those which have been pending since previous years amount to eight hundred sixty-five, a total of one thousand four hundred cases. These cases take the second place, after cases of misappropriation and fraud. The initiatives to combat this type of crime therefore have not only a topical nature but also an urgent one. In principle, we are voting in favour of the incorporation of the EU directives into the Greek legal order, how rather directives such as this, which equip the national legal classes with the necessary institutional tools to combat complex criminal activities, such as money laundering. But that's not good enough. The Greek state must enrich the institutional grid of mechanisms, services and controls of all those responsible for this particularly demanding task, and in this regard I would say the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Crime. In the context of its responsibilities, the Authority must pursue enhanced cooperation with other relevant authorities in the Member States in parallel with judicial and police cooperation. It would be a good job to create a pan-European umbrella agency with the participation of EUROJUST, EUROPOL, OLAF and other authorities, all of which, in coordination, will combat the various aspects of cross-border crime. On the specific issues of the bill, the presentation of the positions of the Change Movement by the special buyer, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, was detailed. Let me have an indicative accent. First of all, it is in the right direction to codify and update the main offences for which money laundering is also provided for in Article 5 of the draft law, without prejudice, of course, to the operations carried out in the financial sector. The State Secretary responsible has committed himself to the committee to take into account the comments made by us, particularly by Mr Harris Kastanidis, and we hope that the case will be reintroduced; Article 10 of Law 4557. You should also see, Minister, with particular attention to whether the case and Article 5 of the bill corresponds or not to the regulatory field of the directive to be incorporated. In the positive direction, the provision of prior knowledge of the third party for the freezing of his property in Article 7, which must be specifically justified in the judgment. I agree with the remark contained in the Memorandum of the Greek Criminal Association concerning the disproportionate nature of the indefinite commitment of the defendant's movable and immovable property. As both its chairman and the representative of the assembly of lawyers have told us, today on the basis of Article 262(4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the adverse consequences of such a commitment are automatically lifted after five years if no final judgment of a criminal court has been given at first instance. As the restriction of the defendant's property here provides, it is considered disproportionate and likely to give rise to problems, in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights and the first Additional Protocol. I would like to finish by commenting on the outbreak of pandemic and vaccination. There is no right unlimited in our law. Each right is receptive to restriction. Vaccination is mandatory. Another question is that one cannot be forced to be vaccinated by physical violence. This is torture. However, unfavourable consequences for the refusal to be vaccinated are provided and I believe that, at least in those areas where professional or public officials are active, particularly in the health sector, which are in contact with the public. I think we no longer have the luxury of tolerateing the various'sprayed' and conspiracy conspiracies. The state should act responsibly. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u48	We will stop the flow of colleagues because he asked for his speech to be made by the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will only make a brief reference to the bill, since our colleagues in the committees and in the House have analysed it in every detail. In general, however, there is no doubt that money laundering is something that Greece has never dealt with properly, with criminals almost always getting away from the harmful provisions of this framework. Most of the current amendments - in particular many of the provisions introduced for the first time - are largely positive, since they cover significant legislative gaps and indeed, in the right way. However, a number of new provisions are adopted, which generally reduce the scope of the sanctions imposed on criminals, which legalise money laundering, whereas most importantly they abolish the specific burdening provisions for scholars and members of terrorist organisations. Unfortunately, similar favourable regulations are introduced to professional illegal people and to members of criminal organisations. This intensifies our country's problem with the mistreatment of the execution of sentences, with various charities, which ultimately lead criminals outside prisons, in their homes, let alone when the bill is in many parts of the vague, while the most important thing in preventing and suppressing criminal acts is the strictness of sentences and not the reductions in the time of imprisonment we have seen in many articles. In this regard, when the potential criminals are convinced that, if they commit a serious criminal offence, they will forever remain in prison, infraction will be greatly reduced, something that has not happened despite the systematic adoption of European directives. However, at a recent hearing, a high-ranking judge, who happened to meet, when he was asked about life imprisonment in the event of a serious crime, he replied that he did not agree, because the criminal has no hope of his future, which is not positive for the penitentiary in his view that prisons should have. We were therefore asked what kind of confiscation one might expect from a serial killer or guilty of other serious crimes, especially when it recurs, in other words, when it repeats it, which may be explained by the Minister who has found it appropriate to reduce penalties. Finally, as far as the whole of the bill is concerned, the European Directive on the fight against money laundering is incorporated into Greek legislation, but it does not specify how to combat it, so as to allow for more effective and faster cross-border cooperation between the competent authorities of the European States. On the other hand, when the strongest economy on our continent, Germany, is considered to be the one with the largest black money market in Europe, it is difficult to understand the meaning of such Community directives, noting that according to a valid German newspaper - which we will present in the Minutes, all together - the volume of money laundering in the country exceeds EUR 100 billion annually, without financial transactions. Germany is also at the top of Europe as regards fraud, reminding the Diesel Gate, which only Greece dared not seek compensation. It is also in the eighth place worldwide as a tax haven, as we will testify in the Minutes, as among the champions of tax evasion. Although the extent of money laundering in the country is enormous, the risk of criminals being discovered is very little, mainly because of legislation, such as tax confidentiality for lawyers and notaries, as well as the lack of public administration. In particular, all the federal states of the country together, of the eighty million people, employed up to recently only fifty auditors of black money, fewer, that is, from one to one million inhabitants. Lucky? Of course not, since Germany thus indirectly facilitates the inflows of black money from abroad, which is invested and consumed within it, thereby making significant use of GDP, investment, consumption and, of course, public revenues. How can we compete with her? I would remind you here that the constant delays in Germany in adopting European laws on money laundering have led to the European Union being accused twice as an offender. In 2014, Germany was in danger of being registered as a high-risk country with regard to the financing of international terrorism, while Mr. Soyble had refused to launch a business register in which to record their real owners. The laundering of black money in Germany, however, which is considered the "eldorado" of this illegality through the purchase of real estate, according to a German article, which we will present in the Minutes, is the easiest thing on the planet, since it is responsible for the controls that local labour inspectorates are also involved in cases such as dog bits. For example, in Bavaria, no property broker was controlled from 2010 to 2013, while in Berlin, where property prices have increased sharply, excessively, with registered two and a half thousand brokers, controls are negligible. Anyone who now wants to launder black money, through the real estate market in Germany, should simply find a notary who will accept a cash bag, which was not until recently banned by at least German legislation, when in countries such as Greece you are not allowed to pay more than EUR 500 in cash. The Italian mafia, therefore, particularly appreciates Germany, using restaurants for money laundering from drugs, in particular, for the benefit of the country itself, since it receives extra tax revenues, having the potential to borrow money from other countries, to which such transactions are prohibited. How, then, can other countries compete with it? We also recall that the international Transparency International, known as the Berlin-based Transparency International, is an organization established by the world's largest corrupts, namely by all the multinational companies in the world, including too many Germans, for example our well-known 'SIEMENS'. In this regard, as the French writer De Bree, who investigated the organization, had quite rightly written, this is precisely the same thing as entrusting a fox to be supervised by an ornitharchy, which also applies to Germany, as far as the Eurozone is concerned. We must note, however, that Germany, which has actually imposed on us the catastrophic memorials, the PSI, as well as the delivery of Macedonia's name against the extension of EUR 95 billion for after 2032 through the troika of the interior that serves it in the New Democracy, the Change Movement and SYRIZA, are not our friends at all, but, on the contrary, loyal friends of Turkey, as has been established by the last European sessions. As our friend Professor of International Law Hephaestos now writes, whose article we will present in the Minutes, hoping that the government will read it after Turkey's new review threats, its continuing aggressive moves and serial illegality, many are said about wicked negotiations, dialogues, etc., while the ambiguity of maritime zones honors no state that wants to be strategically and diplomatically serious and reliable, especially when Turkish officials are literally poorly against us, legally and politically. The only notorious negotiation can only be one minute's duration to state by Greece that all it accepts is an agreement to appeal to an international court to demarcate the continent. No debate can be held at all and no one has the right to debate the unilateral sovereign rights of Greece, namely the gyalitis zone. Any preamble, which will even contain one more word, prejudges the decision of the International Court of Justice. It is dangerous, that is, if and when there is the appeal which Turkey certainly seeks. That's her target. In the face of the rape of the international order and international law by Turkey, the only legitimate, legitimate and legitimate path is depositing to the UN coordinates. So if Turkey does not accept the unconditional appeal, Greece is reasonable in time to legislate, as well as to defend the sovereignty of the state, as foreseen by the provisions of international law. Finally, he said that we should pay particular attention to the Cyprus issue. Furthermore, it would be a great mistake to move Greece along the lines of some mysterious Berlin agreement or other behind-the-spot backgrounds, really hoping that none of this would happen. I will close with the very serious issue of water, which the government has recently gone through, an amendment that goes through its sale, stressing that it is the oil of the future, while global wars are taking place, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. We have analysed the issue dozens of times and it is extremely serious. If water is sold, such as, unfortunately, electricity and natural gas networks, our energy, that is, IPTO, DEDDIE, PPC and DESFA, except that the price will be increased vertically, Greece will no longer have a national status, which also applies to PPC, which the government is gradually converting into an import and wholesale company by a producer. In particular, in the previous briefing by PPC President, where he did not reply to a series of questions, it was heard that the company is better to import energy rather than produce, since the price he buys is considerably lower. Have we really learned nothing from the destruction caused by our industry, which results in today's downfall? So will we change our productive model, which depends largely on its energy and its costs? Garshoni of Europe, will we stay? Can we never learn from our mistakes, as it seems, from the 41 billion that the government has wasted on loan, for example indebtedly compensated even the 'FRAPORT' for its possible profits with EUR 177 million? What the Germans are gonna do? However, we hope that the government will not be blamed for what its predecessor did in 2004-2009 - for its failures, such as the pandemic, for the huge twin deficits and twin debts that accumulated in just two years' time, instead of mismanagement with uncontrolled locks, which destroyed both our health and our economy. Development, of course, will be about 4.5% of GDP, as predicted about two months ago, due to the sale and bankruptcy of an abortion law, since the change in ownership is increasing investment, while when 10 is reduced to 5, then the rise to 6 means growth of 20%, but a growth that will not benefit Greeks at all, but the domestic elite, especially the new owners of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u50	Mr Anna - Mani Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the risks associated with money laundering are undoubtedly one of the most serious threats to the economy of the Member States of the European Union, but also to the security of its citizens. So today, the Legislation of the Ministry of Justice is incorporating the Community directive on combating money laundering, through the Criminal Law, an important piece of legislation, adding another weapon to the patronage of judges and prosecution authorities, in their efforts to deal with organised crime and the most money laundering known to all of us. The proposed provisions introduce three main sections. Firstly, updating the list of basic offences; secondly, revising the penalty framework; and thirdly, redefining the conditions and procedures for the freezing and confiscation of crime products. First of all, Article 5 extends the main offences, as these are added against the Union's financial interests and cross-border VAT fraud, which are explicitly provided for in the directive, but are also incorporating new ones, such as bribery and bribery, to alter the result of a sporting struggle. And very importantly, it is also the regulation, according to which a major offence is any other crime, punishable by means of a custodial sentence, from which it can benefit, which aims to include all relevant offences, even if these are not explicitly described in the law. Then, in accordance with Article 6, the framework of the penalties provided for shall be adapted to the Criminal Code, but shall also be systematic, so that it includes, not only the basic form of the legalisation offence, but also the distinct cases. It should be noted that the new framework of penalties, as the President of the Association of Greek Criminals has officially pointed out, is both rational and proportionate and in line with the provisions of the Criminal Code. The proportionate escalation of penalties, on the one hand, takes over and corresponds to the merits of the respective infringements and, on the other, is in line with the penalties under the Criminal Code. Further incorporation, the obligation to impose the measure of confiscation and freezing of property, which is a product of crime and to adapt the relevant provisions to the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Finally, the provisions concerning administrative justice, which increase the number of judges and facilitate citizens, are also particularly important, as a number of cases will now be dealt with in their place of residence. The speed of justice is thus achieved as a whole. Thus, in the tax matters a competent court is the residence of the person in question. In addition, the sole jurisdiction of the court of the place of residence of the citizen is laid down in the case of seizures on the hands of credit institutions and not in the case of the court of residence, as it has so far been. At this point I would like, Minister, to propose that you look at the possibility of providing, in the same way, for the jurisdiction of the court of the place of residence of the citizen and the acts of the Treasury - it is the customs control unit of the Ministry of Development - which are avenged in Athens, because this is where the authority is based. Many cases are referred by administrative courts of the region to the administrative courts of Athens, resulting in a great delay, which often falls to the detriment of the citizens. In fact, most of these are related to the operation of shops. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, two years had been completed since the Greek people trusted the wheel of our country with the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. At this time the government, despite the unprecedented conditions of the global pandemic, managed, on the one hand, to keep our country up and, on the other, to regain its lost credibility, while building strong strategic alliances. Above all, she managed to remain faithful to her basic commitment to the Greek people for reforms that will take our place forward. The national recovery and resilience plan 'Greece 2.0' has already been launched, one of the first projects approved by the European Commission, a historic opportunity for our country which should not be lost. An important part of the reforms takes over the important work of the Ministry of Justice. They really deserve congratulations to the Ministry's leadership, Minister Kostas Tsiras and all his partners. Within two years, major conquests were carried out. I shall mention a few very brief points. Increase the number of Judges. Reform of codes. New Code of Judiciary. New procedure at the Court of Auditors. There are changes in the Code of Civil Procedure in the Criminal Code and in the Code of Judiciary and Judiciary Officers. The construction of seven new judges has already been launched, while our judges are equipped with logistics and digital media. At this point I would also personally like to thank the Minister for his prompt response and the significant strengthening of the Caterina Court with logistics, machinery and other digital tools. More importantly, the digitisation, which has taken place in Greek justice, is the most important conquest. Electronic deposit and service of documents. Electronic judicial decision-making. An electronic version of a series of judicial certificates, now issued directly, quickly, without suffering and costing at the latest, the single certificate of legal solvency, in which twenty-five whole certificates were incorporated into just one. All this is an entire digital revolution for the benefit of judges, lawyers, judges but mainly for the benefit of Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, with the power that the Greek people trust, will continue its reform work in the field of justice, as in every area of public administration. With a plan, determination, hard work and always saying the truth to our fellow citizens, we will overcome any difficulties, ensuring all Greeks and all Greeks, but above all to our children, a better tomorrow, a hopeful future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u52	My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been almost two years since the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure were passed on to SYRIZA. And what we as a Parliamentary Group did not then hear from New Democracy, as well as from the Minister of Justice, Mr Michalis Kalogerou. That we were acquitted of rapists, that we'd take Golden Dawn softly, predicting reduced sentences for setting up a criminal organization. That we have moved forward without the necessary consultation. That we would favour the hoodmen, reducing the penalties imposed. Today's Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, indeed, referred to scandalous provisions and tolerance to those who delight the concept of asylum. Rather, for this reason - because some of the asylums are culminating in - it has then come to an end, because it obviously wanted to protect the concept and academic tradition of free movement of ideas in universities, as it is seen as self-evident from the nineteenth century and the University of Heidelberg. It is, of course, the same logic and tactical, which Mr Mitsotakis had implemented as Minister for Administrative Reform in public. Because there were problems of bureaucracy and distortions in its operation, instead of correcting them, he chose to lay off in one night thousands of workers. The very same rhetoric was repeated on the other points of the Criminal Code, as the New Democracy never really wanted to contribute to the essential after seventy years of change in the legislative framework, which was very much welcomed by the whole of the legal world. But it has given priority to micro-policy and micro-participatory purposes in order to gain micro-political and to cultivate a sense of generalised insecurity to the citizens, which it pays today. Rape has remained a felony with clear wording - in paragraph 5 of Article 336 - that anyone who attempts a sexual act without the consent of the sufferer is punished by imprisonment for up to 10 years. The penalties have been streamlined overall, as was called for in the special report by the Council of Europe on the penitentiary system in our country, but a tightening up of the penalty, which is actually being carried out, has been implemented through an increase of one third in two-fifths. Similarly, in the case of life imprisonment, the minimum time was from fifteen to sixteen. As the professor of the Law School of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Mr. Paul, has pointed out, it is not the hard thing to do with crime, but the one that can be implemented in time and efficiently. It is not the very high sentence by name, but it is finally evaporated, but the one imposed by legal rules and actually being carried out. But the New Democracy did not want it to be left today either. Nor should it be mentioned and commented on the issues, which were indeed of concern to citizens in the field of security. On the contrary, it turned to its official line the reproduction of false news, even on a subject such as that of the rise of the Golden Dawn at the time, for which it was fully responsible, even then giving a second chance, first leading the rally for the Prespecies Agreement. As for the issue of consultation, too, you are forgetting in recent years that during the process, which ended in 2019, the conditions for drawing up and voting the code were respected on the basis of objectivity and impartiality. By law, a special legislative committee was established with members of the country's leading lawyers, who were all representatives of judicial associations, legal schools and the plenary session of legal associations. Those legal scientists worked on draft respective committees, which were already working long before the 2015 elections. It is characteristic that the overall training of the new Criminal Code lasted for over ten years. On the other hand, what are we observing in today's legislation under discussion? An inseparable addition of members to the Special Legislative Committee in order to justify preconceived decisions of the Party hearing rather than of qualified scientists. An unconditional tradition and absolute subjection to the new quarantine sirens, as Ilias Anagnostopoulos, President of the Association of Greek Occupations and a member of the nomadic committee, has pointed out in the recent past. Newly fined, which, of course, does not apply to everyone, as this legislation reduces penalties and fines for money laundering. In response to Article 5 of Directive 2018/1673, which urges Member States of the European Union to take the necessary measures to ensure adequate punishment in an effective, proportionate and dissuasive manner, all offences of money laundering, as well as those of assistance and synergy, moral automobile and attempted money laundering. Neutralisation for the many, but not the few, who leave an indelible negative print in the public interest. For our part, as a SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, we call on you to harmonise your legislative initiatives with scientific findings, to stop working on science and to allow the exemplary experts to propose and implement, within the rule of law and respect for the independence of powers. Let us stop the micro-groups of New Democracy officials and its leadership in the back of Greek justice and consider how we will be able to adapt the legal framework to modern social needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. We continue with our colleague from New Democracy, Mr Athanasio Ljupi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with his current legislative initiative the Ministry of Justice aims to combat money laundering more effectively. The fight against organised crime is constant, it needs frequent adjustments and improvements and, of course, it is a battle, which is related to the economic aspect of criminal activity. Money laundering and dealing with this phenomenon are of particular importance for weakening illegal organisations and armoring the financial system. The current draft law also incorporates Directive 1673/2018 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Improvements are made in the existing legal framework, and cases involving money laundering are streamlined. The cases of synergy and moral automation in legalisation are no longer separate criminal acts and will therefore not be recorded earlier than the main act. The list of crimes is enriched, from which it may subsequently result in the laundering of black money. Corruption and corruption are being added as offense to alter the results of a sporting race, on the basis of the Council of Europe Convention on Manipulation of Sports events. There are also cross-border fraud crimes, mainly concerning VAT and crimes for the criminal protection of the European Union's interests. It is important to broaden crimes, from which money laundering can emerge, noting that any crime, which is now being punished for depriving one of his freedoms, is covered by the law. Penalties imposed in accordance with the European Directive and the new system of penalties under the Criminal Code are adapted to allow for the necessary escalation and classification in the enforcement of sanctions. Acknowledging the serious implications of any act of legitimisation, sanctions are provided for even illegal acts, which are foreign to the benefit of a legal person based in Greece. Confiscation of an asset is one of the following penalties, in the event of money laundering from criminal activities. The new arrangements may impose confiscation of property belonging to a third party, subject to specific conditions. The third should have known about the execution of the offences, but there should also be special reasons for this matter in the court. This ensures the public interest without circumventing the rights of third parties. In the event of a commitment and a ban on the sale of property, the undertaking shall be automatically withdrawn if there is no irrevocable referral to the audience within five years, an attempt not to limit an indefinitely and excessively the right to ownership of a defendant covered by the presumption of innocence. The consequences for the legal person benefiting from the laundering of black money or also of the crimes resulting in laundering are confirmed. As a result, in addition to the suspension of operation of the undertaking and the resolution of a legal person who is now in liquidation. As is reasonable, a legal person involved in such activities will no longer be able to undertake works and services, supplies and tenders of the public or legal persons in the public sector. The last chapter of the bill relates to the much-discussed and necessary acceleration in the administration of justice. The new provisions simplify the procedures of the courts and strengthen the human resources of the courts. The citizen who wants to resort to justice is facilitated, since in case a tax fine is imposed by an audit firm based in Athens and having jurisdiction outside Attica, the taxpayer appeals to a court of his residence rather than to Athens. Similarly, the citizen is being facilitated once again to have easier access to justice, since if we have confiscation on the hands of credit institutions it is the court of the debtor's place of residence. Finally, in a clear attempt to strengthen administrative justice at the level of judges, the organic positions of the administrative courts as from 1 September will be increased. The following shall be added three presidential posts for the year and six for the year. To sum up, the European Union's efforts to combat dirty money laundering have been intensified in recent years. This is a very serious extension of criminal activity, which affects healthy economic activity and at the same time refinances and strengthens terrorist and more general criminal groups. The fight against such phenomena requires cooperation between States, public prosecutors and judicial authorities and banking institutions. Worldwide in 2020, $10.4 billion was imposed on financial institutions in sanctions for violations of dirty money laundering legislation. A 80% increase compared with 2019. Given that zero tolerance against black money is an important indicator affecting investors, it is very important that the government's efforts to create a strict framework that is deterrent to ambitious economic criminals. Greece is a country governed by the rules of legality and this must be made clear at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Mr Ioannis - Michael Loverdos from New Democracy is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Today it is two years since the government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over. This is two years of the most difficult that this country has experienced, and not just the country, but humanity as a whole, which is faced with an unprecedented situation that we have never experienced before, among us who are still alive in this world. Never before in the last hundred years has there been such a great, threatening and difficult pandemic, and that is why it is fatal that many people have not understood or want to understand the consequences of such a catastrophic event. Today we're not talking about the pandemic. Today we are talking about a bill which contains two main things: the first is the harmonisation of legislation with what is in place in Europe in the fight against dirty money, money laundering, and the second is the facilitation to be done mainly in administrative courts on tax matters. The first is a difficult process, but it has begun to bear fruit. Especially since 2001, the truth is that many positive steps have been taken in the fight against dirty money. And the bill that we are voting on today is still getting stronger. As far as tax problems and tax matters are concerned, this draft law gives a positive impetus. You will tell me: 'What is the biggest problem for the citizen?' It is dealing with bureaucracy and what it often feels unfair, and it is, a suppression of a state of person. This is one of the biggest problems that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is trying to solve. Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself, contrary to what Mr Sarakiotis himself said earlier, has tried to do as Minister of Administrative Reform and what he is trying to do as Prime Minister is to limit bureaucracy, which is why we have taken a lot of steps towards the digitisation of the state, which is just the by-pass of bureaucracy, and to deal with what the citizen feels. He feels alone against an unloved and cruel state. We don't want a state like this. We want a state that is functional and effective for the benefit of the citizens. That is where all the efforts of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy are aimed. Are they all successful? They may not all be 100% successful. I will not tell you that this government is not making any mistakes. All people who create and bring reforms make mistakes. But this government is making reforms. Indeed, these two years in the middle of a pandemic succeeded and made important reforms and will proceed. If we succeed in getting out of the pandemic quickly and in time, it will do even more. But, bad lies, we live in times extremely difficult. You saw that the virus did not leave our country, nor the whole world, and the pandemic did not end. On the contrary, it is now clear to all of us that we are at risk with a fourth wave, which may not be so destructive in our lives, but will be in our economy. Greece is based on tourism. Greece is based on the focus. This is its main economic activity and these activities have suffered a great deterioration because of pandemic and we need them. This summer must be better than last year. In order for this to be achieved and for the economy to be saved and for us to have the development prospects that we must have as a country - because we are entitled - we must leave the pandemic, we must overcome the risk as far as possible. And what I would say and what is my dream is, instead of sitting here in the House and in the channels outside and fighting with announcements or voices about who made more mistakes in the management of the pandemic, we had to all be united right now as far as one thing is concerned: to get the virus out of Greece. To achieve this, we all need to be united as a fist. I dream of the moment that Mitsotakis, Tsipras, Fofi Gennimata, Koutsoubas, Baroufakis will all be on TV and they will go hand in hand to say to the world: "Get inoculate." Since you believe that only by vaccination the lives of our fellow citizens can be saved, and only by vaccination, we can get out of the pandemic and save the country from financial damage, do everyone together. Unfortunately, I don't see that. I have said on several occasions that there are too many issues. For the Criminal Code, which Mr Sarakiotis said earlier, we disagree as much as you like. It is a matter of political and ideological placement. About the issues that concern the economy to disagree as much as you want. For the pandemic, there's no disagreement. In addition to Mr Velopoulos who has his opinion on vaccinations, we all agree that vaccination should go ahead. Why don't we do it? Why do we have to fight each other about something we're all supposed to agree on, for what is self-evident? That only vaccinations save lives. Only with the good example of the country's leadership will it be able to move forward. However, I fear that we will have many problems in the near future, and I hope that no one wants this for sterile opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u60	We can hear you, Minister. You have the floor for three minutes to present your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment No 969, and specific No 79, comes with five provisions. The four of them have a direct connection with the treatment of the coronary. The two of them, the first and second, as the Government has announced, relate to a specific electronic application which will be in place so that the owners of the focus areas are basically involved, but also to any other anticipated, or their authorised officials, to be able to check the validity and authenticity of the vaccination certificates, attestations, attestations, attestations of illness, attestations of negative molecular or rapid test. This will be done so that there can be a control of the risk of spreading within these areas, precisely because the level of immunity at the moment in the general population is not yet where we would like, where the National Committee for Vaccines prejudges. With this application, it will very easily be possible in a very simple way and with absolute credibility, but at the same time with the protection of users' personal data, to simply check the validity of documents alone. We are in close cooperation with the Personal Data Protection Authority, both in terms of the arrangement that has now come before you and in terms of its technical implementation, so as to fully ensure the protection of personal data, as in any case there is no record that remains. The second article also concerns the announcement that there has been a few days ago in connection with an incentive to encourage the young people of eighteen to twenty-five years, so that we can create an additional mobility in the vaccination process. Describe the procedure whereby 150 euros, which have been notified, can be effectively registered with each of the beneficiaries. I note here that those who have been vaccinated so far are also beneficiaries and those who will be vaccinated by the end of the year, so that only certain activities, which are described, can be used. In paragraph 3 and 4, there are also two applications which help greatly to provide a remote service for our fellow citizens at this time. The first relates to an additional essential service in the implementation of intangible prescribing, which we are giving. I should like to say about the intangible prescribing, which has indeed been embraced by a large part of the population, as the citizens who are registered are two million and ten thousand to date when this particular application is about 16 months old. To date, there is the possibility of issuing intangible references, but also intangible recipes. I'd just like to give two numbers here. Currently 18.28% of recipes, which are being executed, are through the application of intangible prescribing, as well as in the referrals are 21.27%. We therefore add a third option to the medical certificate, which each doctor may issue in order to use in any public or private body required. For example, it is necessary to register someone in a gym or in a children's station or elsewhere it can be done remotely and is the third essential service, which is added to the application of intangible prescribing. Article 4 also allows an electronic application, which will be made available in a very short time, each of the citizens who has been enrolled in the intangible prescription to be able to see and promote where he wishes the file from the prescriptions, references or medical attestations he has issued. So he will be able to have them filed and then exploit them in any way he wishes from mobile devices either from his mobile phone or from any other application he can have in a mobile device. This, as you can see, is very important and we make it easier for every citizen to have an image of his situation. Of course, we have a program to create the individual medical records. This is something that will be late, it has a process that you understand has many stages, but when this is done, this specific application will be added to everyone's personal medical file. We're here and I'm staying here to answer any questions that arises. I want the House to know and the Greek people to know that at a very difficult time the Ministry was actually called upon to deal with very difficult issues, which have a single objective to facilitate the citizen in these difficult circumstances, to limit the need for his physical presence in public gums, to have a remote service wherever possible. Just now because we are in the final phase of this great effort to deal with the coronary by applying for the catering areas or any other associated areas judged by the National Committee for Vaccines that there must be additional surveillance and surveillance measures, there will be the possibility of this being done in a very simple way through implementation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u63	Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor. I'm not putting time, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Mr Georgioda, the amendment you have put forward is not yours, it is almost all the government, it signs the majority of the Ministers. I would like to ask you two questions, one less important and one, in our view, very important. The least important thing is to finance - I will not say now that we agree and disagree, I will say it in our position - of this measure that you have taken, which is unacceptable to us for the EUR 150 aid. The amendment states that this funding will come from EUR 50 million which will be charged to the information society. This EUR 50 million is a state budget or an ESDP together? That is the first question to answer both together. And the second very serious question, Mr Georgioda, is this. You are coming here today as a government and you are introducing something completely unprecedented at least at the level, which is the issue we are discussing, namely pandemic. What are you basically suggesting? You are suggesting that, from the vote and after this amendment, the audit function, Mr President, whether or not someone has a genuine certificate of vaccination will not be exercised by public officials, by state bodies, but will be exercised by the taxpayers of our country who owns or by workers in the catering sector. In other words, you are transferring this hard core of control work that concerns the state solely on the basis of the Constitution and the law to private individuals. Indeed, this role of control concerns, Mr Georgioda, a critical, sensitive person, because all health issues are sensitive personal data. In fact, this great issue that is a major priority for all of us, which is the issue of vaccination, and as we all know very well, we are giving together a very great fight to convince and that part of the Greek society that has so far not been convinced and vaccinated, trying to remove the suspicions, concerns and concerns that sometimes arise from irrational origins and are based on the wrong management of communication that various people may have done in the public debate. So you come here on the issue of vaccination, which concerns the management of extremely sensitive personal data, which is who has been vaccinated and who is not and who is not responsible for this now not the state official, but whoever private in our country has a coffee, a bar, a restaurant. Question, Mr Georgioda, Mr Chiara, to the Government of Mr Mitsotakis: Do you already have an opinion of the Personal Data Protection Authority, Mr Georgioda? Because if you have come to Parliament to recommend this amendment as a government - I repeat - as a whole after the announcement of Mr Mitsotakis himself without having to give your hands an opinion from the Personal Data Protection Authority, then not only what you are doing, Mr Georgiotta, leaves you extremely exposed politically, institutionally, but it is also criminal, because you are sending it to the Greek society, now that we need to shield it with confidence to come and that part of it which has not been vaccinated, to be vaccinated, the message of suspicion. Yes or no, Mr. Georgioda, do you have an opinion? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u65	Good. It's a clear question. Of course, because I and you are islanders, I travelled to the island, Mr Ragosi, was not a public minister who asked me to show him if I had been vaccinated, the horseman of the ship was. And you, if you go to Paros, the horseman of the boat will ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u66	There is a difference, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u67	What's the difference?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u68	The difference, Mr President, and Mr Pleis, between what you have said and what you are doing today is that there will be control over the public bodies. You'll go, you'll show the vaccination certificate and the sailor won't tell you "pass over or don't pass", but he'll check it out if it's genuine or not, which until today they can only do state organs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u69	I think that's the same thing, but we'll listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u70	No, it's not the same at all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u72	I'll give you the floor after the Minister. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor. The questions are two. Answer them, please, so that we can proceed with the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u73	I don't want to believe that Mr. Ragus does not understand what I mentioned. I think he's trying to create an impression. We must resolve this here, Mr Ragosi, to end for everyone, because in the end, at least we who are publicly drafted in favour of vaccinations and in favour of trying to deal with the coronary, really need to unite forces. To resolve the issues today. No verbal competence shall be exercised by the owner of the focus area. None! I said before, but I don't think it was understood. The only thing that controls with the specific electronic application that we are going to make is the validity, authenticity of the document which is presented or on the mobile phone. Not specified on the basis of this check if this concerns a certificate of vaccination or illness or a negative molecular or rapid test. There are three categories included in this certificate and what will be seen is that the certificate is valid, without the division of the categories, so that one can see and understand whether it is actually vaccinated or diseased or has the negative molecular test in the shops in which it is intended. The validity of the document alone and without even checking any other element is the one which will be confirmed by the implementation of this document and not categorised. That's the one. The second is that, as I told you, we are in close cooperation with the Privacy Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u74	I asked if you had an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u75	The opinion if there is to be, will exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u76	So you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u77	Listen a little, Mr. Ragossi. There is no obligation on every piece of legislation that comes here to have this certificate. But here I am glad to say that the Personal Data Protection Authority...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u78	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Ragosi, no one interrupted you when you were talking. I can't interrupt the Minister. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u80	We must all agree in this Chamber that there is an Independent Authority, the Personal Data Protection Authority, which is, of course, responsible for giving directions, giving instructions and imposing sanctions when it considers that the regulation is not being complied with. In very close cooperation on both the contents of the legislation and the technical application we are as a Ministry and there is the consensus - and that is why we are moving forward - on this legislation. So what I am telling you now is that there is agreement, cooperation and acceptance and approval - say whatever word you want - of our specific legislative initiative and of the technical implementation that it will follow. In any case, it shall be the protection authority that may assess, judge and intervene if necessary. It has not intervened, it will not intervene, because with its own cooperation and suggestions we have come up with this particular text. In relation to the money, let me say that from the State General Accounting Office, 50 million are coming to the Ministry of Digital Governance and will then be made available to the information society for the disposal that must be done to the beneficiaries of the young people eighteen to twenty-five years old. The General Accounting Office of the State is the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u81	Mr Ragossi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Previously I asked why I asked Mr Georgioda to ask him, thinking he had pause. So, Mr Georgioda, you just told us that you came here and put this amendment as a government without an opinion from the authority. The principle is no party organization in the New Democracy, Mr Georgioda. The principle does not operate in the place in agreement with the Government in the context of informal talks, nor does it give informal consultation, cooperation and approval to such amendments. The principle of what it does in writing answers in writing when questions are asked in writing. And the question, Mr Georgioda, which comes from what you said is this: Have you applied in writing to the Privacy Authority to be placed on this amendment? Take note, Mr President, of what comes up. If you have submitted in writing, which you cannot lie, because there are protocol numbers, then, Mr Georgioda, that will mean that you have submitted in writing, so what you said is literally for the basket of unusables. Secondly, and above all, without getting the reply of the Protection Authority you are bringing Parliament today to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u83	You repeat the same, Mr Ragosi. Mr Hetas has the floor to ask his question. No speech, question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Georgiod, I didn't understand anything. I don't understand. I'm sorry I don't understand, but you're gonna help me understand. At night when we're done here, Mr. Georganta, we're both going to have a drink or something. Just stuff. Have you made the vaccine, Mr. Georganta?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u86	Congratulations. I haven't done it. The reason I haven't done it is personal. Do you want to see you here? Because you've taken everything out here. Put us and a seal to move out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u87	You asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u88	Please, we're not having such a conversation here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u89	First question. Are we gonna sit down and have a drink at the store where we're going? Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Who's gonna check if the client's vaccinated if he's been through COVID? 'Cause you said before you said it would be checked. Then you say 'in agreement, and if you like it, it's also an appeal'. I'm sorry, are you lawfully begging for consultation? The law must apply. You said a moment ago that it is 'consensual and appeal'. Is the client obligated to show his paper, cell phone, anything else when he comes to a shop to eat, drink? Have you made this picture? Will four people go with their best man, who have not been vaccinated yet, do self-test? Do you understand what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u90	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u91	Is that how you answer the congressman? "Ares, lashes, pine cones"?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u92	The question became clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u93	Take a seat, Mr. President. "Ares, rags, pine cones" is what the government does, which has gone crazy in the world. Put a seal on me to be released, Mr. Georgioda. Mercy! And tell me about the drink at night...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Heta, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u95	To answer seriously, Mr President. He's a minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u96	I will say that you were not in when Mr Georgantas spoke, who explained that he would stay here and answer questions. As you said, 'Minister is to answer'. He said it before you said it. Mr Georgioda, you have the floor for three minutes and the subject of the amendment is closed here. The rest of the Members in their place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Heta, the attempt to reach agreement must be honest. If we were honest with each other the attempt to reach agreement, we would have also reached agreement on the need for vaccination. I put this aside because, unfortunately, your public positions are not helping. In relation to what you said and described, so that it can be understood in the world, after 15 July, Mr Heta, of course, and we can, after you have made this invitation, go to a store in a house, in a housed catering area. There you must have negative molecular or rapid test.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u98	Twenty euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u99	I have the confirmation of the vaccination that I made at the end of May and that the scientific community will say that it has been valid for several months. I made it for free. I was offered by the Greek state, like all the European Union, to the citizens. So I'll have this vaccination certificate, you get the negative molecular test. In control of the mixed store, it won't show what's got and what's wrong with each other. Just both of us with this valid document will be able to enter the store. Of course, you have chosen to need at specific periodic intervals to take the negative molecular test or rapid test to enable you to enter these spaces. We must, however, agree that public health must be protected. So where there is a risk of confusing each of us should be able to show that it has the conditions that are necessary to meet this urgent need for our country. That's your question. I think, Mr Ragosi, - and I will repeat - it has been understood that, with the recommendations of the Privacy Authority, we have reached the specific text and the technical intervention that will be followed. It was the responsibility and necessity we feel at the Ministry to do it because there is no personal data processing. We, however, wanted - and I think we should have done so, and we were right to do so - to have the directions that will be given from there and the remarks that have been given and we have a public debate right now which is understood by everyone and you understand what I mean. But to decide in this Chamber that it is the Privacy Authority that has responsibility on this matter. Of course, because the ministerial decisions will also be followed - implementation will not start tomorrow - we are here to see what is necessary, which we will have to see nothing because this provision is completely compatible with the regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u100	Mr Hatzigiannakis Miltiadis is called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers and State Secretarys, to understand well. You are telling us, Minister for Digital Governance, that the Personal Data Protection Authority has responsibility, you have worked with her to bring today's amendment - orally, because nothing else arises from what we have understood - and while she has responsibility, she does not give you, in writing, the validity of her own competence. What you said he had the power to do. Mr. Secretary, we either don't understand here or you don't read or something is happening and you just don't care. Does the question of the protection of personal data obviously concern the whole world and all of Europe and tell us that it is not going beyond the processing of personal data? Then what exactly will the application do? It will check whether it is genuine or not the private certificate to be presented to enter a shop. And you're telling us he doesn't do the controller. I'm telling you, he's judging it. I went into the store and judged this application for a fake. What does the storekeeper have to do? What does his employee have to do? Is he supposed to call the police for forgery? You, Mr Pluri, knowing the criminals very well. Could be the digital document forged. What's he gonna do? So, you don't control the shopkeepers? You ask them first if they want to? You asked them if they're financially up, how much staff should they hire? You've asked them, you just didn't like their answers. That's what's happened. And to end the story, because it is sensitive personal data, obviously, and we are, at least, in agreement and we say it every day in favour of protecting public health and in favour of vaccination. And we'll see what Mr. Loverdos said when he finished his speech, but you too, Mr. Undersecretary, if we all have to unite our powers, who works in this direction and who does not function and who sabotages it. Therefore, the shopkeepers, one of the worst-paid sectors of the Greek economy in the pandemic and as Mr. Loverdos quite rightly said in his speech from the most important pillars of the Greek economy, make them a control mechanism and load them and burdens on the government bodies. Of course, we know what the end will be. In the end, when you once again fail to manage and control vaccination and pandemic, it will be the bad shopkeepers, it will be the young people's fault. So you are loading them, and you have not ensured by the competent authority that there is genuine respect for personal data and legislation. In Germany, there is already a problem with a decision of the Supreme Constitutional Court setting a brake on how to process personal data in relation to vaccination. First of all, it says that who's vaccinated and who's not infected is personal data. That's what Germany's highest cancellation rate said. You think it's not personal. Because that's what you told us before. So let's see how he legislated, what the independent authority will say and what the courts will finally say. Because, unfortunately, that's what's happening. Now let's go see what you said before, who sabotages the homogeneity that has to exist. The Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, made a maximum of a blow, which drugizes the harmony that we need to show and which you are now coming and invoke on the part of the vaccination. Talk about sabotage sanitary. Who? To us, who from the first day of the pandemic, the first time we even made videos called "Some Home", where we meet, and where we stand, we're talking about vaccinations, we've been vaccinated almost all of us. And the moment you've done...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u102	You don't all speak for vaccination.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, after you put it, the only one who raised matters - and not one who used it as an example - because I will reply to that too - said very specific things about how the pandemic is treated and said so from October. And it's not just vaccines. Not only are pandemics treated with vaccines. That is what the World Health Organisation is saying now. And that's what Paul Paul Paulakis said. He said bring in monoclonals, invest in therapy. When we were talking about the patents, weren't you telling us about "beam trees" here? Now that Mr Biden has said so, you are not talking much about 'embolite trees' and about the lifting of patents. The president of America said so. When we said so, you invented 'embolite trees'. And that is the reason why a government and the prime minister who is the head of the country's government show to the other opposition parties that there must be a confiscation in this part. When we talk about the lifting of patents he tells us about "embol trees", when the day before yesterday he accused us of sanitary sabotage. And it's not just unfair, because he knows it, it's also immoral what he did. So, obviously, to leave much - the most important issue we have to deal with is pandemic. That's obvious. Things are too dangerous in the economy too. That's what I'll agree with Mr. Loverdos. It's not easy. There seem to be mutations. Obviously, all the forces of the country, but also of Europe and of the entire civilized world, must give themselves the best, on the one hand, to protect the citizens and, on the other hand, to convince them that we must be patient and follow. Because some time ago we were all congratulating the world on its self-restraint, on how it did it. In the first wave you celebrated in favor of the world and now it's the young, it's the unconvincing ones. I am also telling you - and I am closing up with this - Astra Zeneca, with the only difference that, when we made our first dose, you then took the directive off that we cannot do the second one. Nevertheless, we show her confidence, because we think it should be done. In order for the Prime Minister of the country to come here and tell us that we sabotage the pandemic piece. Hey, no! Be serious about the government, because we're going to have bad endings with the pandemic, and it won't be due either to the world or to those who don't believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u104	Before we move on, I would like to make a medical clarification. I think that's what Mr. Hatzyannakis wanted to say. Anyone who has made the first dose of Astra Zeneca, if he wishes, can do the second one at ease. Scientificly not prohibited. It's just that if some don't want to do the second one, they can do another vaccine. Because as you said, he was banned retrospectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u105	Not those who hadn't done. I'm clarifying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u106	Yeah, I realized you didn't mean that, and I'm clarifying it. I'm just clarifying it. He has asked Mr. Ploris to speak between 14.00 and 14.30 in the morning. At the same time he asked for Mr Pafilis to speak, after briefing me from Mrs Konnakas, who was at the Conference of Presidents. So, we're going to stop the Members' flow. I will simply mention the colleagues who will speak after Mr Ploris and Mr Palheiro to come to the Chamber slowly. These are Mr Kelles, Mrs Apatzides, who has been here since the morning, Mrs Bryzidou, who has been here since the morning, Mr Kalamatianos, Mr Spanakis and Mr Karagunis. Mr. Plori, you have the floor. You will normally make your speech, not intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, in order to avoid many interventions by parliamentarians, I have chosen - because I wanted to respond to some issues too - to make my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I really cannot understand what SYRIZA has come and tells us today. Because in politics at some point we have to say clearly what we mean. So here comes an amendment which concerns the position taken by the government, that there will be a different regime - opening up the enclosure now - if anyone is vaccinated or has not been vaccinated. The person who has been vaccinated may, with a certificate, be in these areas, who has not been vaccinated should have an examination showing that he does not have a coronary disease. It's a classic function of the public health part. Let's go see what can be done. Three things can be done. Can't be a fourth thing. Case one: No closed spaces open at all. Not at all. They don't open, nobody comes in. We continue a regime 'not open' and we are all in the same restrictions either we have been vaccinated or have not been vaccinated. Case two: we're all coming in. Whoever got to the Lord's house. Anyone who wants to enter these areas and sits without any investigation if and if he can be a person carrying the disease. The third case is that obviously the choices of each other are choices that affect each other's health, and there are consequences for this decision. Here we see some who mainly belong to the anti-embrytic movement coming and making the right to choose. Of course, there is the right to choose, and the smoker has the right to smoke. No one's forbidden him. The smoker, however, when with his smoke disturbs others, automatically enters restrictions, for one’s freedom ends where the other’s freedom begins. So when there is someone who by choice does not want to be vaccinated, it is not a punishment system. It goes into the restrictions that will be imposed to protect public health, because the Council itself in the case of not a coronary, but because of whether children will be registered in kindergartens, it felt that the child's station is entitled not to register the child if it has not taken the vaccines, because public health means that yes, vaccination is an interference with the right to self-determination, but when it is done for the sake of public health, we should also see the good of public health that is proportionately present. So you must make it clear to SYRIZA, because you have actually come to follow Mr. Paulakis' argument or the Greek Solution. I don't know which one of the two had this argument first. Today what did you come here and say, what is your position? We'll come to the personal data too. Is everyone supposed to enter the premises and not be controlled? Do the vaccine have to have more freedom status because it is less dangerous for the transmission of the disease? You say we separate citizens. Now listen to what criticism we are hearing. It says, "It's the government's fault you didn't get 70%." The government, ladies and gentlemen, would have been to ensure that the vaccines had not been safeguarded if it had not ensured the status of vaccines. Can the government, in addition to the campaign that will convince the world - the MPs themselves, the government, the scientists - force anyone? And when we come here and say, "Yes, there is, we have to convince the citizens and all convince them" and the former Deputy Health and MP says to you, "I don't do the vaccine and I will wait September" do you think it doesn't affect people? He's a doctor. He's telling you the other, former health assistant. He's a preconceived SYRIZA official. You mean the people who voted in Chania don't hear what he says? Why is the citizen who sits and thinks - I am not talking about those who believe other things - who cannot get into a word of argument - who has a hesitation when he hears the former Deputy Minister of Health for four years in SYRIZA - from the September elections to the Minister of Health was and until the government of SYRIZA fell - to say 'I will do so from September and then see', not to say 'And I will do so in September and see'? And what is your attitude toward this? Take Mr. Blonde out or Mr. Chakalotos clears him out of here? Do you not understand that when the Prime Minister refers to these cases? And what did you say today? Don't you want there to be a check? Well done personal data and we'll see the conversation that's taking place. Doesn't he have the right to sit somewhere next to someone else, to know if his side is or isn't vaccinated? This man has a right, doesn't he? They deposit personal data all of a sudden and they're all coming and they're asking us to give the certificates. They're asking us to give these certificates, they're repositorying personal data. So, on the basis of which you are arguing about shops, to be consistent with your argument, I will ask you the following: is he who controls you at the airport before entering check-in, is he a public official? Is the one who controls you on the private line ship a public officer? Do you realize that you are joining a position and want to dynamise all the control possibilities that exist in order to enable a measure to be applied and not to have a spread of the disease? Because if you think that there is a problem with personal data in the event that the other person does not process or record - on a single platform he sees whether or not the certificate is valid - you cannot say that he does not cause a problem with personal data when the private employee on the line is asking to see if there is a certificate. You cannot say that there is no problem, respectively, when asking on board to see the airline employee if there is a certificate. You cannot accept that there is no problem, respectively, when you ask for rapid or self-test or molecular control. Because in this case, one will say that they are sensitive personal given and medical practice. That is right, therefore, for the government to reach agreement, so that all that is being done is compatible, tolerable and tolerable with the requirements of personal data. But at the end of the day, you, in this Stepma, from the Greek Parliament, took a clear stand that you do not want any control, and in reality you are accelerating and giving arguments to those who refuse vaccination. Negatives of vaccination tomorrow will go outside the shops, which will apply this measure and they will say, "We will enter, because SYRIZA has come into Parliament and told us that you are breaking personal data". You have to understand that you are the party of Officerial Response and what you're saying has consequences for the world he hears. And you must have a clear position, which is not enough to be called by your Chief, Alexis Tsipras alone, but to show that it is convinced that here it is not possible to mock the votes of those who want to dynamise the vaccination movement. It is not possible at the moment to say: 'It is just his personal views' and not to have come out in a clear way to say that the views expressed by Mr Polakis are wrong, instead of - scientifically, expressed by Mr Polakis. On whatever channel we come out, you say they are his personal views and then you base him on him as a whole. The Greek Government has therefore decided that the public health of the Greeks is at the moment important. That is why he has taken all the necessary measures. And yes, we are trying to convince the world that it must be vaccinated and it is obvious not because there is a punishing approach, but because there is simple reason that a person's choice of not automatically vaccinated cannot be a dynamitis in public health. So the limitations that would have been if none of us had been vaccinated with these restrictions. That is the right of choice. I'm coming to the bill now. Once again, there has been a discussion of what this Ministry of Justice has done with regard to the penalties and the tightening-up of penalties. Watch out for what's going on, so you don't have to say and write inaccurate. First of all, there were four laws, the law of Mr. Paradigopoulos and three subsequent, until August 28, 2019, which gave the possibility of a preferential condition of dismissal to a number of offences and the first Law of Paradise, and that was why he had been criticised more than anyone, without any exception. Next ones were putting some exceptions. This Minister has stopped this practice. There was no new law on preferential dismissal from 28-8-2019. The law that came here also concerned not a conditional dismissal, but a limitation of a small defiance of offences. So we stopped a practice that SYRIZA implemented since March 2015 with Mr. Parafavopoulos until Mr. Kontonis' last law, I don't know if anyone else had intervened. Second, from November 2019 and before a legislative committee was set up, the immediate changes that were problematic in the Criminal Code were made. For example, it has been augmented by the inaccurate crime of group rape and has become more severe than the earlier provision in force, and at the same time by what we are discussing today, active bribery has become a felony. Why imagine we had the oxymobile, for reasons that Mr Kontonis and I have never wished to imagine, a crime that was a major felony to do so and that was money laundering. Are you coming here to say about legalization and you have not yet apologized in a clear way that you have made active bribery affliction? This Minister has brought it back. And it has done a prefecture that completes its work, from what we have been informed, and the will expressed by the Minister, Mr Tsiara, and by the Secretary-General, Mr Kotsira, is that we will also go to streamline where it needs and, above all, in a way of creating the penalty and the condition of dismissal, which will be proportionate to the offences. So there is an insight into the common sense, but also, in essence, into the penitentiary system that there is also a proportionate punishment and that there is also a proportionate creation. And this particular piece of legislation, which is now coming to adapt a directive to a large extent, is what we have been discussing. The framework is being streamlined again in the directions that exist with the changes made in criminal proceedings. And what has emerged, and I shall end with that, Mr President, is an issue that I would like to raise, because I have heard it from the Change Movement and from Mer25, and I agree with it. I would like you to take a look at this, Minister. It's about the confiscation piece. In fact, in 261 the Code of Criminal Procedure, on SYRIZA, has a provision that tells you that confiscation is being lifted automatically as soon as five years have passed and no final decision has been adopted. We should normally be compatible and not be in dissent. The plan that has come here mentions that it is withdrawn after five years if there is no irreversible referral. I think it is appropriate that it should be reviewed so that there is a provision without any need for further transitional provisions. And who's that? It is the provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which applies to all acts. Because in a rule of law it is a state's obligation in reasoned time. I am sorry, but in the five years - Mrs Adamopoulou mentioned it from Mera25 - this also has issues with the European Court of Human Rights. Five years is sufficient time for a coordinate state to be able to have been led into a definitive decision and not to hold people hostage. Practical, unfortunately, shows that as long as we extend time all we do is delay the procedures. And if the Constitution allowed us and instead of an eighteen-month temporary detention we had two or three years or four you would again see that the proceedings would be delayed. The delay in the procedures, which is the obligation of the state to speed up the process, and the five years for the final decision to be taken is sufficient time to put the administration to the detriment of the citizen. Because yes, it may be someone who has committed the crime, but imagine that he can be a man who is innocent and find himself with the provisions as it is now almost ten years old cannot work. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] So, with these thoughts, the initiative taken by the Ministry of Justice is correct. We support it and we expect it with an agony, Minister, when the amendments to the penal code will come and we will now be operating again in a normal context with the changes that need to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u109	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u110	Do you have any reason? You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u111	Just a minute to clarify. I do not want to reassign myself to the substance. Mr. Floris made a position on the basis of which he falsified what we said. What you are doing today in the government's amendment, Mr Ploiros, is not whether to check the presence of vaccination certificates at the entrance of the catering shops, as you have said, on ships and airports. The first is the presence of the police at airports. We'll check the plasticity of a public document by the restaurant owner. The owner of the restaurant with what you are legislating today will not control the existence or not. You do not legislate here today on a procedure that says 'to get into a shop you must show a certificate of vaccination', but do legislate that the restaurant, the worker, the owner of a bar, a restaurant, is the one that controls the plasticity of the document. So don't falsify what we're talking about. And if we asked for something about it as you are obliged to do, it is a simple opinion of the Privacy Authority which, if the government had requested it and did not expect it to take it to bring this, which is now being proposed to Parliament, is even more exposed. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. The parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u113	Of course, it is common practice to have amendments that are serious and topical. Anyway, we're getting past this. The question is, why did we get this far, as far as the pandemic is concerned? Why did the government, when we pointed out at the outset, have to strike down, that is, take measures where the biggest outbreaks of virus spread are? And who were they? With official studies, firstly, workplaces. For today, see what is happening, even today, and where they have increased on the basis of data. Second, public transport. See what's going on. Mr. Florie, are you kidding us? Will one man who's on top hours like the sardine vaccination certificate next door? Because you say things that are out of reality. What did you do about it? Why didn't you put a question on the subway to thicken all the routes? Because you're late to launch all the buses, trolleybuses, etc.Huh? Now what are you doing? You also ask for the change from the world, which people are running with their souls to go to work and can't be delayed. Because if he's late, you know what's going on. You brought both the law and the working card. For peeing to go, it'll cut his fifteen minutes. By the way, I'm saying all this. We raised a number of issues from the outset. Firstly, strengthening the public health system. And the Prime Minister's coming out now and the government, and what is he doing? I mean, mercy! Shrinks, closes hospitals. Instead of taking lessons from what happened, it does. But why does he do it? That's the question. To support individuals who have been scared all this time by all the sectors, by the tests and wherever you want. You're saying a mandatory test. Did you go to the Constitution on Sunday and see what was going on? Protest to get free because otherwise they have to pay 20 euros. Who will win from 20 euros? That is the general logic. We in the case of vaccines and all of this from the very beginning said and acted. Mr. Kaklamanis will tell you when he came to the opening of our conference, which was two thousand people. There was control, everyone with masks, distances, etc. We did it and told the world all the vaccines. You played games, the New Democracy Government and the European Union as a whole. Therefore, stop individual responsibility, because to load individual responsibility you must have a state responsibility, and you have shown state responsibility. And can I tell you something? SYRIZA - I'm going to say it publicly - leaves it at the top that it violates, etc., which are based. We do not agree, however, that the Greek people should also listen to this - it is a logic of justice - that I do what I want to do. It's a little covered here, but we'll see it in the course, which you're supporting. I'm not saying personally, I mean the New Democracy. We'll find them in next bills, probably from autumn. So, there's nothing wrong, I want to do morphine? I'll do it. I want to do heroin? I'll do it. It is the logic that prevails in general, which means demolition of the collective right rather than personalisation, heroisation - if you like - to individual right, so that everyone is obscured and not into collective social rights. I said that as an introduction. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, can I tell you something? Over the last few years - every year we have been hearing dramatic calls from the other parties about the great and dangerous problem in the European Union, in the country, a New Democracy Member said - who is at the crossroads and is well known - in humanity, about money laundering, in other words, black money laundering and, of course, terrorist financing, which are becoming more and more excruciating. This is your world. That's him, isn't he? Isn't that the capitalist world? What is it? You're on your own now. Unfortunately, on a temporary basis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u114	Who's your guy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u115	When he was ours, there was a balance despite mistakes and weaknesses. Now that you are on your own, it turns out the horror of a system based on the sound exploitation of the vast majority of the people, who are in poverty, unhappiness and unblemished riches, unbelievably having a handful that has the means of production. That's him. We hear your anxiety about all parties serving this system. We're really wondering why you're wondering? You should at least be more honest. Why do you deny that black money, corruption, the 'funding of terrorist organisations' - why does the European Union have any more and I will say all of this - what is it? It's an integral part of the rotting system itself, making boots worldwide. People are hungry and the others are ruining a million for a party? Is that true or not? Because you're protesting. People die of starvation and someone else spends - not to say more words and I'm accused - of one night a million for himself and another two million for all the other tycoons to come. They're the ones you're supporting. You're the ones who say other things. So why are you wondering? It's the very operation of the capitalist system. What's the law? Winning, money by all means, above all and legalising the black by laws, not called black, is called a bit different. It's called free movement of capital and everything else. We tell the workers clearly this. This system is immoral. Firstly, it is immoral, because it is based on the gain from sweat and blood of those who produce the wealth, which if they stop, others are useless, not to say anything more. Are we wrong? Let's see. The seventh directive, commemorated by a SYRIZA Member from Drama, will now come. Six instructions and one coming, seven. Minister, I officially ask you from the Step of the House. Can you give us the results? What's happened so far? How much black money and how much trafficking has been caught all this time, how much money-laundering? Give us information in the context of the great European Union, which is a champion and individually and politically in the trafficking of black money. I have been in the European Parliament for five years, and I can open my mouth and say too many things. So let's see how this black money is laundered and why they can't control it. For example, Switzerland launders black money, yes or no? Let a Minister of Finance officially come out here and tell us he's not laundering. Does he check what money they're getting into the banks? No, she doesn't. It is a tax asylum, such as asylums, and much more on all continents, the Cayman Islands, the Virgin Islands, Singapore. Should I say more? There's no control. So why not all of them? Because they are a permanent shelter for illegal revenue and 'legal' revenue. Here, too, there is a sacred agreement on economic growth, which says 'they are not tempted', is it not? Let one stand up and answer us if we're wrong. We are not tempting these, while we can kill peoples, murder millions, and we cannot solve the problem of black money in the Virgin Islands and elsewhere. Who's got statements, Mr. Pleari, over there? The workers, the builders, the employees? There is the sanctuary of capitalism, in all these spaces and in the big banks. Was Deutsche Bank denounced for money laundering? Oh, no. I told you about Switzerland, I can say worse about other banks as a whole. Another example. We can't, he says, catch the black money. Are you serious? Who are you talking to? Fools? Tell us about it. Weapons trade, is there illegal? There is. Is it profitable? It is. Does he have double prices sometimes? It does. So we are the naive ones, too. Who produces guns? And we're not talking now about individual rifles alone, guns or ammunition or automatic. We are also talking about heavy weapons, too heavy, even of missiles. Who are they producing? They produce economic colossal, yes or no? Aren't the states controlled? You must have a serial number here. It's all known. So when he sells a company, if the state wants to control it, he can understand and prove where he goes, he goes to and from that state goes elsewhere. Why don't they do that? They don't want to? Of course they don't. They do not want to check the routes, because it has great profits and secondly because it serves political purposes, for example, the Stinger people sold them by the Americans to the Taliban at the time and then they said they were anxious not to tear down any passenger planes. What companies do they sell? Where do the 'ISIS' and everyone else get the guns? We're not just talking about kalashnikov. We know what's going on there. We are talking about weapons seriously, dangerously and with great potential to attack the opponent. Where do they come from? Why are the capitalist states - because all capitalists are, of course, - to which these companies are based cannot sit on the stool and close a company? Because it's precisely the function of the system itself. Secondly, pornography, prostitution and all that stench of the system. We're not surprised. Everything's in trade, the human body, etc. This is where they sell kidneys from India, from Pakistan. They've been revealed. They go to the center of Switzerland, the mysteries you have to give half a million, and you get well, and you live another ten years. Why doesn't this stop through the internet? Why not cut these from the companies, such as 'GOOGLE', 'AMAZON', etc.Huh? Can they technologically? They can. All of them in front, "MICROSOT" and not all of them together, all these companies. Because he has a profit, and besides profit, he has an ideological side. Better people in rot than in questioning the same system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, please give me the rest of the minutes, do not talk again. Other examples, artistic cultural creation, archaeological wealth, etc. all in market gambling. And you're saying you're gonna limit it? So we ask you: Who - apart from public museums and galleries - own a large part of the cultural creation of humanity? Who are they? Aren't the tycoons of wealth who have the greatest collections? Now, what about the workers, Mr. Ploiry? Oh, no. How did they get all this? How many people have archaeologically - to say, as we speak of our country - statues, whatever you want, of unscrupulous objects? How? And by the way, we should ask something: Your allies, your friends, your brothers, Britain, why doesn't he give us the Parthenon's marbles, since he has values? It's not Greek? Why won't the French give us what they have to Louvre? It's not Greek? The Germans why not give what Hitler took from Greece and not just from Greece, but many countries in Europe? Why? Is this a matter of nationalist? Oh, no. It's a matter of gain and greed, because museums win. And you go out here without shame, all of you, and now you're telling us all this. Third theme: corruption, bribery. A number of years ago, I do not remember exactly how much, as a representative of the 'LOCHEED MARTIN', which we now have a flag to ODA and to our country, gave a press conference. I can give it to you if you're in doubt. What did he say? That she bribeed officials and governments in fifty-six countries of the UN to take her own planes. So tell me, what did your system do with what he said? Cuveda. He's barely a god. Next item, 'SIEMENS'. I had the "happiness" of nine hundred hours. SIEMENS has bribeed governments and actors in a hundred and twenty countries. What were the consequences? Nothing. SIEMENS is reigning. And how did the scandals come out? The opposite of the Americans who entered the American stock market. And when he gave 300 million, i.e. as if we were giving 5 euros for their own budget, all of a sudden, they ended up sharing, "SIEMENS" left the phones and telephones, took the health machines, etc. which is front and all well burned. Then you tell us to catch the "black" money. 'All right', you'll say, 'that's general'. You say, "You don't care about something to happen"? Of course we do. First theme: Nominalization of all shares to natural persons. "You are the one and you are called, you have these." So the anonymous ends, the "A.E." and comes out. Not that the problem will be solved as a whole. You of SYRIZA take it from us that's the beam and the left? Oh, no. These are the holy and loyals of capitalism, the anonymous corporations, the offshore and all the rest. Secondly, control over the public's third parties. Are you doing this? Oh, no. Thirdly, a ban on outshore transactions. Here the offshore is the realm of corruption and the black funds and the black funds and everything you say. Why don't you forbid it? Why don't you go out and say 'the offshore, the end of the Caymans, the end of the Virgin Islands, the end of the end of the end of Andorra, Singapore, the end of the end of Switzerland'? Since the system supports it too. Because that's exactly capitalism. So is capitalism, uncontrollable action of capital. You arrived here - to your god - at the point where you said 'Give Greece money and we don't care where they come from' and then you talk about fighting the 'black' money? Let me not say now that black and black are all very closely linked. Secondly, it is very important that none of you speak. What can you talk about? If you agree. Financing of terrorism. You don't know anything? Who financed the Taliban? The CIA. He's officially said it, and he's made a statement. When they hit - supposedly - the twin towers, what did the Minister of National Defence respond then, Brazinski? “Yes, I do not regret that we built the Taliban and financed them, because what it intended was the overthrow of the situation and the defeat of the Soviet Union. Who created and trained the 'ISIS' that you all all went out on the tiles and the mass media? Bin Laden. He was an agent of the CIA, yes or no? It was. You're going to tell me 'He's gone'. It's not exactly like that. It's much more complicated. Who trained 'ISIS' in the California camps of the Americans, which are the special forces, in France and elsewhere that were officially denounced and disproved by any government? One more thing. "Red Brigades", I won't judge them. They have a concept of terrorism. We have been radically opposed since we have existed as a communist movement. But the apartment that Aldo Morro had rented it, please, and that's not what we call it. They said it themselves. So who financed ISIS and financially and with weapons in our region? Arab countries. I don't want to call them, or I'll forget anyone. Your best allies! And now you're going out here without shame and say 'we're going to hit the funding of terrorism'? But the European Union and your system, because it can now feel strong, but does it understand what will happen, what it says about terrorism? SYRIZA has also voted for them and those who have been ruling so far and the Change Movement. It says, therefore, that terrorism is nourished by radicalism. Radicalism is a nursery. Who is it? Right-wing thinking, clean, fascism. Radicalized Islam. And that's clean. Who did Islam? Who's blown it all these years? The imperialist powers, wasn't they? In the past there has been no such thing as the fact that we disagree radically with the regimes that existed. Now, however, it suits him to the conflict of religion and not to the conflict of classes. And the left-wing thought. And listen, the SYRIZA government also voted in the European Union, which is why it is not having a debate today. What's left thought? I will read them as they are from the text. ‘For society it means a commitment to equality and redistribution of income.’ This is a left-wing and a nursery of terrorism. Secondly, the left-wing thinking rejects the underlying capitalist values, which are considered the main causes of social inequality. Well, we should also be herds, not to think, not to say opinion. Why, isn't that a cause? What is it? It also says that it opposes the established policies and economic elites and, furthermore, - listen - it opposes the growing privatization of health and transport education and of the international free trade agreement. This is the incubator of terrorism, which goes through the directive. I mean, stop questioning the capitalist system. And if this is the case - which will not apply, because this is not Greece, it is not the European Union - a union that comes out and asks that the ECHR not be privatised, that PPC not be privatised, it is a incubator of terrorism. The rapporteur mentioned the others in detail. We are voting not only against hypocrisy but also against the people that as long as there is profit, a capitalist machine, it wants oil and oil it is corruption. You're gonna tell me, weren't there? There were. We have dealt with them as long as we have dealt with them and played a role, but we are voting against the dangerous roads, which opens up for which the rest of us are not making a leeway. Because they're subjugated to the capitalist system themselves. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ms. Apatzides from Mera25 has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the bill concerns the incorporation of a directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council to combat money laundering and to combat terrorist financing. As MERA25, we consider it particularly important to be the pioneering of international response to organised crime, especially in this period, when in the dystopia created by the present government the networks of organised crime in Greece have engaged in an escalation of violence with death contracts that we see every day in many districts of Athens and other cities. And all that under the illusory look of the police. Systemic journalists urge citizens not to worry about why organised crime, he says, knows a good sign. In a similar setting where organised crime prevails in Greece and we see only its surface through almost daily spaces, which have been multiplied in recent times, it is indeed important to incorporate such directives. And of course, organised crime is adapting, very quickly, to the glossy speeds that the Internet ensures and uses them for its benefit. This makes our own quick response to establish a cybersecurity system that prevents terrible phenomena, such as the exacerbation of child pornography on the Internet and the relative existence of organised circuits. Of course, in this bill, we are not at all in international leadership. Rather, we are confined to a copying of European practices without tabling our own proposals to take advantage of the findings of the Greek experience and especially with three whole years' delay since 2018. This leads to a lack of international coordination with other countries while Greece's geopolitical position is central to the action of organised crime, for example, on drug trafficking in Europe. The governing party is not aimed at this particular experience, but it runs prey on international practice with considerable delay. There is, however, a very important dimension which we cannot overlook. It's a dimension that really is the elephant in the room. This dimension is that a very large part of the global money laundering is done through banks. Without their assistance, that would be impossible. But this raises the question of whether the existing political world is prepared to engage in a conflict with the international banking system when it appears to be involved. If there's no control over the banks, then we'll be chasing our tail. We will be dealing with secondarys while overlooking the most important thing because the banking system is the main mechanism of dirty money laundering. So what is most needed is the shield of our legal culture against systemic banks through which unleashing is done. In this respect, the bill is also insufficient. If we don't do this in a concrete way, then we'll live in a parallel fantasy world. We will bring new tools and procedures to legislate while in the real world the laundering of dirty money will continue completely unaffected by these formalistic types. Of course what to expect when the government has changed the Criminal Code so that bankers can be exempted from criminal liability in acts of infidelity. But we are talking here about the global level, which is being rinsed out according to the keepers of estimates of around 4% of world GDP. In other words, it does not only concern small countries such as Greece. Extremely sinful bank seems to be the German Deutsche Bank in which large fines, like the French BNP and Societe Generale. In this context of a flawless global failure in the fight against dirty money laundering, Greece continues to have a culture of a good child and an exemplary prisoner. Because that's what's happening. In fact, the need to limit rinsing is being worked by the European Union's powerful in order to get experts to evaluate the Greek Stock Exchange and ultimately to check it out. But this compliance leads to further surveillance and degradation of the ability for an independent policy. Because, in fact, under the pretext of the need for cross-border cooperation, we have technocrats to control the Greek financial system so that it leads to ever more neoliberal deregulation. Of course no one here denies the need for cross-border cooperation. It is, of course, the nature of the phenomena so that there are often loopholes in the individual legal systems of the Member States of the European Union. The practice in money laundering as well as associated funding for terrorist organisations is unfortunately evolving rapidly. And that is why we need to be at the forefront of the legal arrangements so that we can make progress as far as possible. However, real solutions cannot be found unless there is a breakthrough in an international banking system at the heart of this corruption. In other words, no real solution will be found as long as we think that the attitude of an exemplary prisoner is the solution to any problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u118	Mrs Brysidou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another initiative of the Ministry of Justice, which aims to update and reform the existing legislative framework for combating money laundering. Over time there is the emergence of new forms of money laundering. The State must ensure, be vigilant and take the necessary measures to stop the offenders. In this context we are voting today on the transposition of Directive 1673/2018 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. We do indeed see - and this is undoubtedly in the right direction - an increase in the European Union's legislative initiatives in this area. This in itself reflects the existence of increased guarantees from the side of European legislation. Europe sets out an organised legislative framework and Greece has to follow. So our country, by voting today's bill, is also firmly standing against organised crime. He adds another gun to the patron of the Greek state against the fight against such illegal activities. It strengthens its legal and legislative arsenal in order to be able to cope with an evolving and changing environment of crime. The achievement of this objective goes through today's bill. It shall first be updated as a list of basic crimes relating to money laundering, including bribery and bribery and the alteration of the result of a fight in accordance with Article 132 of Law 2725/1999 in compliance with Article 16 of the Council of Europe Convention signed on 18 September 2014 on Managing the Sports Games validated in 2019. I am referring to this example and to demonstrate the coordinated effort and cooperation between the relevant Ministries of Sport and Justice and the achievement of the best possible outcome. The most important provision of the legislation, which is now being voted on today in my opinion, is to add to the list of basic offences and all other crimes punishable by means of a custodial sentence of freedom from which the benefit arises. This includes criminal offences of special criminal laws, which are scattered into legislation. In other words, any offence or offence which is not specifically provided for in Article 5 of the draft law is included in the above-mentioned crimes and under specific conditions may constitute the main offence of legalisation. The importance of this provision is twofold. On the one hand, it operates preventively and dissuasively for each aspiring perpetrator, on the other, it excessively reduces the legal loopholes of the law. The list of crimes with those of cross-border fraud with VAT and crimes for the criminal protection of the European Union's interests has also been enriched. This harmonizes the national legal order with the European order, while ensuring cross-border cooperation between the Member States. There is an overall European framework for the broader treatment of crimes. The forecasts for confiscation of assets as provided for in the new Criminal Code are also harmonized. This does not mean that there are different forecasts for similar criminal proceedings, with the same object and objective as was pointed out in the drafting of the draft law in the committees. The penalties provided for, as well as the penalties provided for, for all legal entities and natural persons in cases where a criminal offence is committed or a major offence shall also be reformed. We see, ladies and gentlemen, that the draft law of the Ministry of Justice in the implementation of the European directive incorporates an integrated range of legislative intervention into the Greek legal system. We are thus creating a stable legislative framework, in line with European standards. We are looking for the correction of failures, which we have identified since the day we took over the country's governance. We create the Greek citizen a sense of security. We want the public to be reflected in society, and we are doing all that with a coordinated effort, but above all by the adoption of laws aimed at preventing organised crime. , The Ministry of Justice has already incorporated a series of legislation into the national legal system. The Code of Justice, the changes to the codes and the digitisation of justice are only some of them. The construction of new judges is also coming to resolve the question of placement in the field of justice. I stress all this because they reflect a comprehensive plan and not a random initiative. A plan that enhances the institution of justice in our country and ensures the rules for the proper functioning of a society that is fighting hard and wants security and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u121	Madam President, may I have the floor for legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u122	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u123	We are putting forward the legislative improvements. They concern the completion of the title of the bill. They are concerned with the proposal - an observation made by Mr Kastanides and adopted by Members of all the parties - from what I have at least seen. And, of course, this particular article on asset freezing is in line with the article in the Criminal Code, so that there are no such issues. I am presenting them in order to keep them in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been two years since the country's government took over from New Democracy and in two years the government has been able to fail its economic policy. The country managed to have the third worst recession throughout Europe, and indeed, this recession came before the pandemic was also inflamed. The downward course was started beforehand. He managed to level employment rights, circumvent the eighth, predict unpaid or cheap overtime, reduce protection against redundancies, bring the waste working hours for part-time and much more. He managed to launch unemployment again. We saw the results from the Greek statistical service and the OAED. Unfortunately, unemployment has taken the stand and the support programmes have not yet been completed, the support procedures that the government says they are doing and the packages have not yet been brought to an end. He managed during this period to degrade public education and especially higher education, with the closure of public departments of public universities, as he did in my special homeland Elias. He removed from thousands of students - candidates to enter higher education - the right to dream. It applied the minimum import base, which leads thousands of students outside public universities. He succeeded in the pandemic not wanting to enhance public health. And what do we hear, what do we see, what do we read? The Prime Minister himself announced the merger and the shrinking of public health structures before I even say again to get out of the pandemic process, and the danger exists and the fourth wave of pandemic comes. With the new bankruptcy law, he managed to leave without any protection the vulnerable and weak borrowers, all of whom have debts and are at risk by losing their property and extinguishing them. We risk living scenes that Spain lived with the Rahoi government, which whole families came out of their homes, and this is not only about today's debtors, it also concerns the future ones, the ones that will emerge from the new economic crisis. The government has managed not to control crime. You see in the measurements how much this counts and what anguish citizens have and what concern citizens have about the issue of the outbreak of crime. You have shortly announced that you are progressing to privatise subsidiary insurance. You are unsatisfactory about investing employees' contributions in stock exchanges and insecure investments. So, at risk, workers' contributions, but also at risk, as they are stifled in the air, and the pensions of today's and future pensioners. The government has managed to leave small and medium-sized businessmen, professionals, workers, the unemployed, our producers, who see their sweat and trouble going lost. And here, Minister and Minister, I cannot help mentioning the lawyers. Mr. Undersecretary, you're a lawyer, fighting. You know the issues. Many lawyers are in a very bad state. Not all of them are big businessmen, with huge offices and big incomes. The vast majority of lawyers are struggling every day to make a piece of money, and they are left without any support. You didn't do what you promised. You didn't strengthen them. The repayable advances relate to a minimum of lawyers. The payment of legal aid has been slowed down, the reduction of VAT for lawyers is not being discussed at all and all of them are waiting for the Ministry of Justice - because that is where the lawyers belong - an indication of interest, aid in this sector. On pandemic issues you have shown lightness and courage. The mistakes, the omissions, the contradictory messages, the revolts of the government unfortunately lead to failures. And what's the result? Thirteen thousand of our fellow humans have left the virus, an entire city is lost and we must not forget that. And since we are talking about fighting dirty money and the methods followed by the crime, I cannot help mention yesterday's report on the 'Preservers' Newspaper'. What happened to that? That in October 2020, just before the new hard lockdown was imposed and while strict measures were in place at the entrance gates of the country - the government said - members of the Fenerbachset team entered the country with coronary symptoms, with fever. We have all read dialogs describing terrible things: 'Supervisory of the State Secretary and command of the 'Great'. Who's the big guy? And it is not only the issue of revealing the irresponsibility and hypocrisy of officials, but a para-state activity of public officials has also been revealed with reports of the use of Pakistani phones to prevent them from being identified. This should be investigated, Minister, in detail because a dangerous irresponsibility for officials and government officials and for anti-institutional, illegal and para-state operation arises from the publication. Justice must highlight this very important issue. And I come now to incorporate the directive. I cannot say that on your legislative initiative any property belonging to suspects or accused persons of laundering of black money was allowed to be transferred and sold. And you didn't stop at it. With this bill, instead of maintaining a high level of protection against money laundering, complete it and strengthen it where necessary, you have chosen in some places to tighten up and in others to reduce penalties. The Directives seek to lay down minimum common rules. Member States can assess the particular conditions prevailing in them and establish stricter rules as long as the core of the directive is not affected. In this light, you should now also legislate, especially when money laundering is directly linked to the reproduction and enhancement of corruption, a phenomenon which has been afflicting the country and, of course, has also led to bankruptcy in 2009-2010. The main guidelines of the directive are to facilitate cross-border cooperation and to ensure that certain acts can be punished irrespective of whether they are provided for as a criminal act in the country of execution. There is no reference anywhere in the directive to the need to streamline penalties. The Government chooses to rationalise the penalties and tighten certain cases and at the same time legislates provisions leading to softer penalties for other cases. The directive therefore calls on the Member States to ensure that adequate staff are available for targeted training, resource allocation, for the up-to-date technology capacity in dealing with such crimes. But so far you have done the opposite. With legislative initiatives such as Law 4637/2019 not only did you not support the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from Criminal Activities, but you further made its work difficult. You provided for a maximum period of time within which it could maintain the freezing of assets arising from criminal activity. You have taken no interest in the shortcomings in the authority's staffing and infrastructure and whether it could respond to these exceptional constraints. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that we all see that dealing with money laundering requires a political will and a holistic plan. Unfortunately, these are not in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister of Justice, Mr Kotsira, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, after four meetings held in the relevant parliamentary committee, the Minister of Justice's bill on the incorporation of Directive 2018/1683 on the fight against money laundering by means of criminal law is finalised. I have to say that the debate before the committee, like a large part of today's sitting, raised issues, became a very serious - in my view - parliamentary dialogue. The participating bodies raised critical issues, scientific and legal - which have emerged and can now, following the changes as Mr Tsiara mentioned earlier, form part of the final body of the bill. And that is what I think is a very important development, because we have seen that the proposals which were a product of serious and scientific processing have been evaluated and changed by the Ministry of Justice after the specific parliamentary evaluation carried out in committees. What, however, was the conclusion to which I think we have all come, even with small or other disagreements? That this legislative initiative is necessary to promote our country's cooperation with foreign legal classes, to improve the country's adjustment indicators in relation to European law and to systematically strengthen our internal legislation in relation to a very critical and complex issue, such as combating activities related to money laundering. And the European Union has set out in this respect in recent years a large number of legislative initiatives which the Greek state must incorporate and implement, but obviously every incorporation and application have its own characteristics so that it can be compatible with the legality of each Member State. At this point, I really believe that the legislation, as it has been put in place today, to a very large extent not only incorporates the Union directive in an adequate manner, but also in addition strengthens its compatibility with the national legal order. A characteristic example is the reference to the changes made by the Minister, Mr Tsiaras, in relation to the equivalent of the commitment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was a reference made and indeed was reasonable in relation to the national legal order, or also the reference made in relation to the case of the CA which acted as an umbrella in relation to the offences we had to cover and a time limit was set in relation to the prescribed sentence in three months. So what about this institutional framework since its vote? It shall be systematically reshaped and strengthened both at the level of substantive and procedural law. Our internal legal order is in line with recent legislative and legal developments. Cross-border cooperation between competent authorities is ensured with efficiency, adequacy and respect for procedural guarantees, while the way in which we have made legislation and incorporate we cover gaps, correct failures, strengthen the legal framework and effectively strengthen the objective that is practical and effective to combat organised crime, as can be seen from such activities. We must not forget that technological development, the complexity of these offences and their economic complexity require a delimited full legal framework, with clear correlation with national data, in order indeed to achieve the objective, which is no more than the fight against such offences. They therefore fall within the framework of the draft law on the notion of legalisation of three groups of behaviour, as they have internationally prevailed. It updates the list of basic offences by adding new basic offences in order to match the Criminal Code. For example, bribery and bribery are added to alter the result, cross-border fraud crimes in relation to VAT and crimes in relation to the criminal protection of the European Union's interests. The ways in which the offence against money laundering is classified are clearly defined in order not to create confusion, which often makes sense to be beneficial to the perpetrator concerned and to reshape the penalty framework for legal persons and entities. Penalties are being aligned with those in force in the Criminal Code, so that there is no legal absurdity the basic offence is indisputable with the monitoring character of money laundering. And because there was a criticism here in relation to the sanctions provided for and whether or not they were stricter or not, I would like to say something. I must say that Mr Aylonite's position today was more measured than what he had said in committee. I have, however, heard other colleagues who have referred to a alleged reduction in penalties, to an alleged mismatch with the Criminal Code. I would remind you, I have said to the committee, that today, under the transitional provision of the Criminal Code and Article 463, it was said: 'where special laws are threatened with imprisonment for up to 10 years, such as legalisation, a penalty is imposed reduced in accordance with Article 83(c) of the Criminal Code, i.e. the imprisonment of at least one year or the imprisonment of up to six years'. In simple terms, in the context of penalties laid down in the Criminal Code of June 2019, there was no sentence above six years. So this bill also aligns itself at the level of procedural and criminal value, but there is indeed a framework that is now demarcated and relevant and escalating in relation to the offence that operates as a basis for money laundering. Furthermore, this draft law extends the jurisdiction of the Greek judicial and public prosecutors, while it solves and aligns with the legal reality of the country regarding the freezing of property, which is indeed an issue that we need to balance between the objective set by the Union directive, the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to achieve the best possible outcome, namely on the one hand, to avoid cases where there are products resulting from the legalisation of such offences, but on the other, there are no excessive commitments to the property of the parties involved. It is thus settled that the fate of the commitment in the course of the criminal procedure is being made, and I believe that, with this overall dimension of the draft law, a more secure legal framework is being created, a solid legal base which can be an essential tool for the judge and the administration, which must obviously be in cooperation in that crimes of this nature cannot be treated unilaterally, so that there is a need for allegiance to this kind of treatment. Moreover, in the context of European law as a Member State of the European Union, our country may, with such a legal framework and the existence of the European Prosecutor, which also helps to deal with such offences, be more adequate and safer the legal environment on which to deal with such offences, In relation to something else that Mr Aylonite said, and I forgot to mention beforehand, in the case of the deleted case, it is dealt with by the provision of a criminal organisation referred to in Article 187 of the Criminal Code, which, in any event, is distinguished from its treatment in this bill. I therefore believe that a correlation is achieved and I cannot understand the very strong refusal on the part of the SYRIZA to vote on this bill, while accepting the role it plays in the legal order. In conclusion, Madam President, as two years have passed since the Greek people gave the mandate to Kyriakos Mitsotakis and to the Government of New Democracy to implement its programme, we see that, despite the great difficulties in which we are responsible and we must all stand responsibly, but in the challenges of the pandemic, the reform work continues, the legislative process continues, the initiatives on the part of the government are being taken to improve the daily lives of the citizens consistently, responsiblely and respect the struggles of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too, Minister. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has the floor now, and immediately after that, Mr Spanakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how many of you, I imagine most of you, of course, have seen the 1973 emblematic film 'Serpico'. It's a movie known to most of you. It's a Sydney Lumet film. It's a movie that talks about the loneliness of an indestructible police officer in central New York City, Frank Serpico. It's a real story not to be forgotten. In fact, it is a film with a Greek presence, as the music of the film has been written by our emblematic composer of the world class Mikis Theodorakis, by modifying the poems of Manolis Anagnostakis our unique poet, the most important one perhaps after the Kavafi poet of Greece. What they say, Mr Ministers: 'And I was going through the night without knowing anyone and nobody knew me.' So Frank Serpico must have felt as the only indiscriminate one of the thousands of police officers in New York at that time in 1973. And to avoid misunderstanding, we have nothing with the Greek Police, with the ELAS. It's not enough on its own to make the complication. What we want to say from the outset as Mera25 and to be clear is let us not make fun of ourselves in this area at least. It is not the organised crime product of a small minority of some bad people that we very good people are coming to deal with and simply because they are busy always find one step ahead. In fact, all those present - and not yet - in Jerusalem are well aware that organised crime can only be based and exist when it is interacted with the state, with the police authorities, with the banks, with the entire banking system, with the tax havens made for parasitic oligopolistics and, of course, with the tolerance of state mechanisms. I'm going to tell you another thing, so I'm going to eat it a little bit more. What did the European Union do, if not organised crime when lending, when it was forcing poor countries in the South as our masterpiece, for ten years to borrow billions of dollars each year to be saved, while in reality the route was only to launder the European Central Bank's money to reach the French and German banks that had been bankrupt since '08 happily because of their exposure to American housing? What did the European Union do when Mr Soible arrested his plan that it cannot, because it is forbidden by its statute, rescue banks in state or not, such as Deutsche Bank, which has been bankrupt more than that from Greece for ten years and lives because of us, the Portuguese and our Spanish partners in misery? What did he do? He has avoided the problem with a great fantasy idea by Mr. Shoeble that he can, however, rescue countries and they said, we will dissolve Greece, Greece does not get it at all, he will give it behind our backs to our banks and thus save our banks, using a poor parity, which is called Greece, Portugal or Spain. Is it, then, or is it not an organised crime that he has done for ten years using poor countries and targeting hundreds of millions of millions throughout Europe already poor people just to rescue parasitic bankers, the most parasitic of all? It's and you know it. You also know, ladies and gentlemen, what else is an organised crime? Organised crime, criminals in our opinion, here in Greece is the 568m euro gifts of Mitsotakis S.A. in the oligarchy without frontiers and even within less than six months. To hear this from the people who receive permitted advances of three thousand and who are already asking them back, to listen to it. Let me mention them so that they don't miss you. One, ‘AEGEAN AIRLINES’ 120 million for the damage suffered by a pandemic. Secondly, 40 million for the concessionaires of motorways, in other words for our national contractors, in compensation for the damage they have suffered because of the reduced movement of people as a result of the pandemic. It's the government's fault and it's compensation. Three. "North Aegean Energy S.A.", associated with the "Metsotakis S.A.", it turns out, as it only took for six months 100 million euros because of the damage suffered because of the fall in oil prices caused by the pandemic - listen to absurdity! - as a result of a fall in its economic activity. Listen to the insanity now. What's the Greek state doing? It assumes responsibility for the international price drop in oil. And who's he recompensing? We're going crazy in here! A mining company, a company, which is related to all these damages, which will continue to be compensated by us, as you voted yesterday, to destroy our national environment, our Greece's environment. Four. Compensation to the concessionaires of ‘FRAPORT’ and of the Athens International Airport. 308 million all due to reduced revenues precipitated by air travel, etc. So, to avoid mocking, 568 million dollars of the gifts of "Metsotakis S.A." in the oligarchy without borders. What do you say, Mr Ministers, that is or is this not an organised crime when the small and medium-sized one has not supported anything? 98% of the turnover of enterprises and of the Greek economy is made by small and medium-sized enterprises. You give 600 million gifts to the parasitic oligarchy, which makes 2% of the turnover. I took off, I didn't do anything more complicated to find this. Yesterday we met the Federation of Hospital Doctors of Greece up here on the second floor. You know what they told us, Minister, yesterday's meeting? They told us that for 15 months and while the pandemic has been shocked, and while the thirteen thousand dead are now an optimistic figure, the Ministry of Health and the Prime Minister renounces it stubbornly - and I am sorry to add it - to meet them. Of course, yes, they do. How can they meet them and what can they tell them? What can you tell them, my Ministers? You cannot sell seaweed for silk ribbons to them, you can’t show communication that the ESS is supposedly reinforced with supposedly post notices. That's where these people live, they breathe, and that's where they'll leave their asses. And I honor the expression 'tomats' for these people. And those who have lived from us because of these people who have refused to meet for a year and a half will live. What can you tell them? That you want to deceive, in fact, with design, the National Health System to deliver full health to private oligarchal interests? Your Prime Minister said so yesterday. I quote: 'We have more hospitals than we need'. For God's sake! Can anyone hear it in this country? Do we have more hospitals than we need? Are we going crazy in here? Mr Minister - and that is why you will answer me, I am sure, because it concerns you - apart from the well-known hundreds of people, the bribery of young people, you have brought Amendment No 966. I will only make one comment on it - it is indicative of how you legislate as a government and not personally. In Article 2, which refers to the EDPS, you are bringing about a radical, total overthrow - an amendment to the relevant provision that you have just brought us two months ago. So tell the House what's going on. Why doesn't he do what you legislated yourself two months ago? What happened? Are there any interests back there? I don't want to know. Tell us why you change what you legislated two months ago, though. I'm coming back here now. You are also bringing the amendment to 150 euros. You're not responsible. Kyriakos Mitsotakis "A.E.", after finding this bill closer, loaded it into it. I told you the other day. The Mitsotakis Government, while systematically downgrading the ESS for the benefit of private health interests, not even accounting for the unprecedented health crisis, do you know what you do? After targeting the young people all this time and fiercely, you faced them as irresponsible, beat them in the squares, shut them down the schools, why would they supposedly stick up, as I said the other day, while their parents went in the other morning to fifty together in a wagon - and how could they understand the six-year-old children that they were the "bombs" when they were gathering fifty and twenty in the Kipple Square? They couldn't understand it - and after you hit them systematically for a year and a half, after you did all of this, you are now treating them as lobsters or as natives you give them mirroring crystals. You say to them, "Take 150 euros and pressed the need for politeness, do that because I grease you." Believe me, youth is more honest, more decent and more proud than you think of it in your mind and will not do you the favor. He'll be mad. We are fanatical in favour of vaccination and we are also fanatical in favour of the view that it is an exclusive'success' - in infinite introductory terms - that we have 36% real rate of two-dose vaccinated in Greece today. This is your "success" and you have achieved this because you have completely lost your credibility and completely the confidence of all ages, not only of young people. And the middle-aged and the old and the great-grandfathers. That's why they're under 60 percent the rate that was eventually vaccinated. We have tabled two amendments, Mr Minister. One on the abolition of the minimum import base and one on the sperm high school, which we are resurrecting every week now, the children whose prolongation and your government clearly for classic reasons are throwing them out of symphony. We call on you now to accept our amendments, Minister. Not for us. Respect the youth of Greece in practice. That's all you're doing. I close, Madam President, with a comment on her protest performance in which I was outside the Ministry of Labour yesterday. We should go to Mrs. Mendoni, of course. It was POTD's. It was my partner, the artists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. You know, Minister, this is a hundred forty - a hundred and fifty thousand people. We don't know exactly how many people are, because a year and a half of hunger you haven't managed to count them yet, and I'm not a prime minister. Your government should count them sometime, find out how many art workers are. According to all the calculations of both the Pan-Hellenic Federation of View - Accuracy, the POTOA, and the Association of Greek Actors, these people will be unemployed at 70% this summer. Only 30% of their turnover will be repeated. You must support them as a government as a whole and systematically. You still have the terrible irrational separation between the artists written in the record 10 January and those written after 10 January. Those who were written before and were destroyed have been saved and nothing has been taken away from those who were written after. I ask the obvious question. What's your motive? It's punishing, because they were lazy people who slipped and didn't go by 10:00? It is an economy, that "Let's get out of those who came after 10:00." Whatever it is, it's a 100% absurd motive. So I will tell you that, with such a reduction in turnover, with such a non-project, non-project, you have nothing for all the workers in the arts, not just for the artists, because they are a minority, the majority are those who support us by those who are presenting the artists or who are - and here we are - and here we are're porting' about me, so that we do not have misunderstandings - if you do not urgently decide to support them, as I tell you a year and a half, they will really start starving. And I'm closing up with a statement. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, here you fell from the government hands of Kojam Picasso. You fell down, didn't break. He went down and got dirty. You fell because you didn't notice him. And what are you going to do? Will you bend up to pick up an obscene painter who hasn't sold a job for two years now? Of course not. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u130	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Spanakis now has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement. Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber we can say what we want, we can substantiate our views and it is our democratic right to do so. But we also have a great obligation to listen to what the Greek people say outside this Chamber, to listen to the institutions, to listen to society and to listen to the real needs of society. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not what I say at random. Because you know today is of great importance. We are closing two years and a few hours that the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Mitsotakis, has sworn to the Prime Minister, and it is the day before he sworn to be a government command from President Prokopi Pavlopoulos. Therefore, two years after the elections of 7 July 2019, the government records political and demographic leadership, contrary to the tradition that the ruling parties want to record a fall in the middle of their term. And you can't see that, gentlemen of counterpopulation, and you have to do your self-criticism too. Is that what you know why this is happening? Because there are two basic data. The first presumption is that this government is reforming, that this government is moving forward, that this government is reminiscing the needs of the Greek people. And of course, we also have a second presumption that opposition is elsewhere. It is not in society and the real needs of society. So, at some point, appreciate it! The House will be closed in a few weeks. You can study the overall situation and finally stop seeing the tree, but see the forest and see the future of our country and the future of our children. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law by the Ministry of Justice which updates the provisions governing the fight against money laundering from criminal activities. It is essentially a matter of incorporating Directive 1673 of the European Parliament and amending, respectively, No 4557/2018. The offences we have to deal with with with this bill are extremely serious. In fact, we are redesigning their ways and methods of dealing with them, as rapid technological developments constantly offer new ground and new modes of action. So governments and authorities need to be constantly alert, to follow developments and to be a step forward. We hope that Europe will always be in the face of security issues for the protection of all its Member States. In the first part of the bill, the latest European Directive on the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing is incorporated into Greek legislation and the corresponding provisions of Law 4557/2018 are amended. In October, a similar amendment had been made to Law 4557 with the corresponding bill of the Ministry of Finance, now No 4734/2020, which incorporated Directive 843. The articles of the bill. The purpose as set out in Law 4557 is updated to keep pace with the last amendments. The acts which constitute the offence of money laundering are clearly defined and then the provision of the directive that money laundering is also available when the activities have taken place in another state, since they would be a major offence if they were committed in Greece. There are also, quite rightly, two additional exceptions to the activities that are not required to be criminal according to the legislation of the foreign State to be regarded as having legalised the revenue obtained from them. It concerns offences to protect our antiquities and cultural heritage, as well as piracy for the protection of shipping. The main offences shall be recorded. There have been major additions here, such as bribery and bribery, to alter the result of a struggle, cross-border VAT fraud and much more. It is important that there has been a detailed update and registration of offences, such as child pornography, environmental protection crimes, crimes to protect the European Union's financial interests, non-payment of debts to the public and others. In Article 6 we have the necessary changes to criminal sanctions. Among other things, the provisions on the jurisdiction of the Member States and their obligation to ensure effective means of combating such offences are incorporated. Including crimes committed by foreign or foreign persons for the benefit of a legal person or entity based or established in Greece. We have the amendments concerning compensation for the public, as well as updating the asset freeze process. Finally, we have the amendments to the provisions on the liability and administrative penalties of legal persons and entities. In the same draft law, however, we also have the very important provisions - and we must note that - to speed up the administration of justice, such as the establishment of the competent administrative authority in accordance with the place where the institution signing the contested act is based. Article 13, which stipulates that for tax disputes by acts of audit authorities based in Athens, but which also have competence outside the laws of Attica, it is a competent court which is located in the region of the controlled natural person. It also stipulates that in the case of arrests against confiscations against third parties, a competent court is exclusively the court of the debtor's place of residence. We have an increase in the organic positions of the judges of the administrative courts. Ladies and gentlemen, any change in the interest of improving the speed of justice and settlement of cases is of paramount importance, since it is well known that our country has a good performance in this area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. It goes without saying, therefore, that all Members of Parliament, from all sides, must vote in favour of both the European directive and the provisions that improve the times of justice. In conclusion, I should like to say that we have important amendments and we should not in any case deceive them. These are very important amendments, such as the EDPS, which enables up to seventy-two instalments to regulate debt. Like the one concerning the duties of judges for the permanent committee of adequacy of the Athens Bar Association. Like Amendment No 968 by the Ministry of Health on the donation of mobile, service and support for vaccination procedures, which comes to regulate the liabilities of pharmacy. Are you going to vote against, gentlemen of the Opposition, such arrangements?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u132	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u133	Like moving medical staff with anesthetic specialty and too many other arrangements that are important to address the needs that have arisen because of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the pandemic, the government unfortunately counts early victories in the battle with the coronary, and our country counts and records late defeats. Gentlemen of the government, finally stop acting on the basis of polls. Every Minister, every Member of Parliament, every member of the government when there is criticism of what is his answer? "Look at the polls." As long as the Lockdown gave you political benefits and a sense of monocracy to the media and public opinion all imagined nice and harmonious for the government. Now after the second, after the third, after the fourth wave that is imminent, you are unable to ask for consensus because you have built a civil exploitation wall, instead of building an immunity wall as you have been proclaiming. Your artificial over-optimism has become a problem for the country, but unfortunately it has become a burden on the citizens. Over-inflation in tourism forecasts. Four months ago we were talking about revenues 60% of 2019. A month ago, a few days ago, we were talking about revenue 50%. Recently you revised to 45%. The latest estimates speak of 30% -35% at best in cases. I hope that we will be disproved, but unfortunately the omens are not pleasant. Over-efficiency for investments. Over-efficiency for public revenues. In the budget you forecast an increase in public revenue with reduced tax rates. We already have a delay of 2 billion in the medium term that you deposited and the months that have come to an increase with the month. Only in the first quarter of 2021 we had more than 2 billion additional time. And, of course, overestimation to increase consumption, which would cure the downturn in the market, would cure the problems created by the pandemic, because by lifting the measures we would suddenly have a blow to private consumption. Professionals and businessmen are still waiting for her. You regularly celebrated the government for a success. You celebrated the management of the pandemic and the course of vaccination. Yesterday I saw the FocusBari report. July 2021, Minister. Greece has recently - 20 among twenty countries - with the lowest proportion of the population that have already taken the vaccine, made an appointment or will definitely do so. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You celebrated the management of the pandemic with universal lifting of the measures before you had a clear picture of the course of the Delta mutation, celebrated when we reached 30% with the vaccinations, sailing for the final victory that we achieve against the coronary. What are you doing today? You send the catering professionals to make the auditors of public health measures. And it makes sense to react to people, focus and GSEW today when you give them this responsibility, which is your responsibility to implement and implement it. You celebrate the reduction of red loans in banks' balance sheets without it being translated - because, of course, the red loans in household balance sheets - ladies and gentlemen, in increased liquidity in companies, increased liquidity that people in the market need as much as they ever need, in this very marginal phase we are. You only celebrated yesterday the competition at the Scaramaga shipyards at the price offered to be far less than those due only to the workers, for whom at the same time you have not guaranteed jobs and, of course, their future. So you thought you'd come up with a golden opportunity. You have politicised and privatised the crisis, and today you are with a lack of confidence in the citizens and, of course, isolated politically. This is seen in every bill coming to Parliament. But now, finally, stop showing complacentness and strength, because you have responsibilities, because the moments we are going through are difficult and may soon become very difficult and I hope they do not become tragic. The Change Movement here, like the entire previous pandemic period, stands out for its responsibility. That is why, as announced by our President, we have taken the initiative to reach a consensus on political forces, and we have also campaigned for vaccination - as we have done all the previous time - by sending a positive message to an effort that is national, which concerns all of us and must not be subject to micro-political exploitation. And I say this, Minister, because despite the fact that there are unfortunate statements and colleagues in the House against vaccination, this cannot be the government's alibi to the low rate of vaccination and must be used by the government to create an image of confrontation, and at the moment we must pass a joint message to the citizens on the need for vaccination. We therefore call on you to take the opportunity to reach agreement, even now, before it is too late, on joint actions, initiatives and actions. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, this is incorporating a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating money laundering. It goes without saying that the European directive needs to be incorporated. We have already mentioned it, and our special rapporteur has already mentioned it - it should have been incorporated in an earlier period. I remember that in September when we were incorporating a directive, the previous one, the directive we are debating today was in force. Of course, the offence that is trying to fight, is of paramount importance and is linked to all forms of crime: organised crime, drug trafficking, terrorism and corruption. Combating money laundering from criminal activities is not an easy case. There are too many publicity cases. I shall mention some: Panama papers, Luanda papers, the movement of funds over $2 trillion via Deutsche Bank, HSBC and JP MORGAN and other cases, cases involving Russian and Ukrainian oligarchs, broken sanctions in Iran, Taliban funding, cooperation of political persons with the international bank elite. The European Union has constantly promoted new legislation to combat money laundering in recent years, such as the 2015 directive, the fifth directive that was incorporated into national law in September 2020, if I am not wrong about this directive. However, in addition to the necessary strengthening of the supervisory mechanism by extending access to files and data, it is necessary to ask whether the Securities and Market Commission, which often can control these procedures, could respond to this role and contribute to this. I say this because it does not have the necessary staff and the appropriate infrastructure. The day before yesterday, the position of Mr. Vourliotis and Mr. Karagiannis as Head of Competent Authority was approved. We had disagreed in principle with the choice and the changes you have made, by voting against and by strengthening the provision in question. We could not, however, be positive in choosing two people, including their route to the judiciary, but also the integrity that they have shown in very difficult and neuro-algal cases. And, of course, we expect, Minister, from the heads of state to become sheriffs, because when you fight organised crime linked to washing activities or other violations and illegal behaviours, the heads must have the say of the sheriff, because that is where we are talking about a frontal fight against organised crime. But we also hope for greater efficiency in modernising the principle, bearing in mind that it has not so far shown any success in identifying terrorists who have used encryption because of a lack of institutional framework, as the former head of authority had mentioned in September 2020 at the hearing. Enhanced transparency of the economic and financial environment of the Union is necessary by establishing criteria for transactions with high risk third countries, limiting anonymity, intensity of supervision and strengthening cooperation between competent authorities. The incorporation of Community directives is obviously aimed at identifying, exploring and preventing money laundering in the future. However, the problems remain because new methods are being developed - you know that very well - since technological progress gives rise to more advanced possibilities. Particular emphasis should be placed on the 'dust Internet'. According to the Chain Analyssis survey, transactions with bitcoin on the "dark Internet" were launched to $1 billion in 2019 from $250 million in 2012, while monitoring the Silk Road website revealed a hundred thousand drug buyers and illegal goods with hundreds of millions of dollars transactions. At the time it appears that bitcoin transactions are falling, digital-currency transactions on the “dark web” are increasing, the dark Internet. The European Central Bank now formally adopts the position that digital currencies are threatening national economies, as well as the stability of financial systems, oriented by the adoption of the digital euro itself. Digital currencies threaten European financial, economic and ultimately political sovereignty. In addition, we point out - Mrs Giannakopoulou said - it is unacceptable that the proposed extension arrangement should be extended for an unlimited period by referring to the audience and the deprivation of the defendant's property rather than seeking rapid trial of relevant criminal cases. Now, we're not at point zero. Suddenly the initiatives were not born. Here is an effort that has begun since 2010, ladies and gentlemen, when Greece was being treated as a high-risk country. And it was the PASOK governments that laid the foundations, with the special annual tax of 15% on the value of offshore real estate, with bank confidentiality, with specific legislative initiatives and interventions in difficult times, by extending the list of crimes investigated for money laundering, by the establishment of the financial prosecutor, by the introduction of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority by Criminal Activity and by the shielding of the General Secretariat for Information Systems, which promoted all major tax and customs systems. So here, we don't start at zero. Here there is a continuation in an effort which, I repeat, started by the PASOK governments in very difficult social, political and economic circumstances. We obviously are voting in favour and we support the incorporation of European directives. In the fight against criminal activity and money laundering from criminal activity, it is clear that not only are we sick, but we have so far evidence that we have contributed catalysts and positively to a difficult effort that needs modernisation, but above all, we want to unite forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u136	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, justice as the third and by definition, the most independent state function and the anti-crime policy involved - despite the fact that this policy has been carried forward, and it should not have been because it has nothing to do with the Ministry of Civil Protection, but it shows a perception that you have on prison matters - that is to say justice and anti-crime policy in recent years of extensive public debate. This is the case, on the one hand, because of the monumental pluralism and, on the other hand, because of the corruption cases in the public area. The government's work on justice appears in all the fields that it exercises. The government is prosecuted by the account of law enforcement and order when it comes to the exercise of the freedoms and rights of citizens. She appears unscrupulous and uses repressive methods against those who disturb her because they react to her policies. And with regard to other crime, the criminality of the ordinary criminal law, instead of taking prevention measures, is making use of publicity to strengthen fear in society and further strengthen the arsenal of repression. Even the crime in the Sweet Waters has been exploited by government. In addition, following any crime that takes place and in particular widespread publicity, the Ministry of Justice declares that the penalties are being tightened. Of course we must not forget that as a government you propose, Minister, the decongestive Act of Friday that has ceased to apply since 2017 with false and false release numbers and despite the fact that all governments, and yours, have passed similar decongestive laws. Now, with regard to economic crimes, the so-called crimes of the white collar, from the government's point of view, from the point of view of the New Democracy, there is another approach in relation to what I mentioned earlier, which leads to impunity and even beforehand. So while the New Democracy is constantly talking about the need to tighten sentences with this bill, which concerns the transposition of a European directive, which we naturally welcome, there is a reduction in the scope for the imposition of penalties. This also applies to fines determined on the basis of the economic situation of the perpetrator and not on the basis of the economic object and thus to treat the perpetrator with its class characteristics. The economic and socially powerful one who is detained falls softly while the poor and weak, the man of the margin difficult to evade the vicious cycle of incarceration and crime. Besides, organised economic crime is involved in factors that pave the way for it, which facilitate it as is its relationship with the financial system, markets, the complexity of the political system, corruption as a means of overlapping. In other words, it is a phenomenon with wider economic, social and political implications. The purpose of this draft law is to supplement and strengthen a previous directive which had been incorporated into the Greek legal order by law. But with the present draft legislation you are choosing a different direction in relation to the objectives of the legislation since some of its options do not correspond to the guidelines of the directive. Instead of maintaining the high level of protection against money laundering and supplementing and strengthening this, you choose to rationalise, as you claim. In some places you tighten it and in others make it milder. And above all - and I would like to mention this - while other crimes in basic crimes are added you are removing from distinct acts, the basic crimes that constitute money laundering, money laundering and money laundering through the use of the banking system, placing in it and trafficking through it of proceeds from criminal activity. This, Minister, will result in interpretative confusion, especially in outstanding cases, which may lead to a collapse of criminal prosecutions being exercised. And all this adds to what you have done so far in the regulations you have promoted and which demonstrate this particular treatment of bank managers and others involved in white collar crimes. You have amended the Criminal Code by exempting bankers from criminal liability for acts of infidelity. You have also introduced exemption from the civil and criminal liability of members of the Ministry of Health Committees on matters relating to the competence of the pandemic. Of course it seems that you are doing this, but it shows your logic, shows the direction in which you legislate, the provision contained in it, because it has certainly not become a bill, is your intention, by privatising subsidiary insurance, to exempt from any civil and criminal liability the members of the board of directors of the new fund. So you're giving immunity to those who will gamble on the insured's money. You get it back, so it seems, and I hope you don't bring it back. Another regulation is the maximum period of duration of the commitment measures, as well as the directive, probably Law 4734/2020, with reference to a prison sentence and not to a custodial sentence, so that all cases of felony from which property is produced are excluded, but do not fall within the restrictive categories of crime in question. I shall end, Madam President, by saying the following. In this way you legislate, even the independence of justice is questioned. I am saying this because you have recently passed an amendment allowing the President of the Independent Authority to become a retired judge. This, as you can see, creates a problem for the functioning of this judge, which you are promoting during his term of office. This is how the independence of justice is questioned, for the good reasons I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u139	And finally, with everything that has been developed, I reverse what you said, Minister, the issues of perseverance of our side, of SYRIZA, of progressive forces with economic crime and I stress your obsession with the discharge and facilitation of those who commit such crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis has the floor to explain his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to support the Health Ministry's amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, which introduces some regulations. Article 1 concerns the possibility for the Digital Governance and Health Ministers to accept any donation of services and digital support projects aimed at ensuring the safe storage, storage and transport of medicinal products, as well as the carrying out of vaccines against the CVID -19 by third parties. The acceptance of this donation requires a joint declaration from the ministers mentioned. Article 2 substantially amends the composition of the Committee on Objections of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Office for the Control of Persons in Social Security. This regulation is urgently needed because this committee is not working and must be reconstituted in order to move ahead with the issues which are pending. Article 3 concerns the extension of the existing administration of the Union of Nursing Nurses of Greece, which, by reason of a coronary, cannot take place in elections and extends the mandate of the existing administration until 30 September 2021. Article 4, on account of the complexity of the procedure for calculating the refund amount charged to private pharmacies, allows for adjusting the debts of those pharmacies in thirty-six instalments. I think it's a device that gives breath to the drugs in the country. In Article 5, in order to address the issues that are caused by the smooth functioning of hospitals and, in particular, hospitals in the region, due to the lack of medical staff and especially staff, doctors with anaesthetics specialists, the proposed provision establishes the provision of financial compensation and, let me say, it is a very important regulation. It is the beginning of a series of regulations that will follow and deal with the various specialities in the National Health System. We are all aware that the specificity of anesthesiology is a speciality which is flawed. The government was committed to bringing in an integrated framework of incentives, not only economic but also institutional incentives, so that our doctors remain in the National Health System, but also to be able to bring doctors who have left the country, bring them back from abroad to the country. We start this intervention with the doctors of the specialty of anesthesiology, which I repeat, is a critical speciality. There are major deficiencies. In particular, I should like to say that in the Fourth Health Region of Macedonia, in the last SSH doctors' notice, of the eighteen anesthetics posted by the Fifteen ended up being atrocious. There is a strong economic incentive for doctors in these specialities to serve the health units and to remain in the system, because there are departures, not only from retirement, but also because of competition, the private sector is indeed more attractive in terms of economic gains for this specialty and for other specialities. That is why I would point out that this is our first intervention in the motives that the doctors of the National Health System must have. The same is the case in Article 8. Because of the lack of anesthetics and because at the moment the National Health System is at a critical turning point, in terms of both the management of pandemic and the return to normality, we need to move anaesthetics to various areas and give an incentive, a remuneration corresponding to the amount paid for the movements of medical personnel during the pandemic period. At the same time, the Government continues to implement contracts for permanent medical posts in the country's National Health System. In the two years of governance of the country by the Government of New Democracy we have declared two and a half thousand permanent medical staff posts and in the next five hundred permanent medical staff will be called in in addition. In any case, I would like to repeat, many specialities, many positions are taking place fruitlessly and it is very important that we encourage doctors to remain in the health system and take part in these notices. An additional provision is made in Article 6 in a provision passed by the Greek Parliament concerning the incompatibility between members of the Pharmacopoeia Cooperatives and the properties which these members may have on the Board of Directors of the Pan-Hellenic Pharmacopoeia Association. We complete this provision because there are cases where elections have already been held and the board of directors has not yet been set up. Therefore, in cases where the elections have been held, the provision of the article which has been voted on is also repealed. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Kelles from New Democracy has the floor now and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u143	I want to ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u144	Excuse me, Mr. Kelles. Here, Mrs. Konnakka, ask the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u145	Minister, in relation to the amendment, I would like to ask you a question. For our location, I will tell you in detail below. The problem that we find in other amendments also applies to the fact that there are positive and negative articles and we are bound to vote. In particular, in relation to Article 5 of the amendment, of course, we have no objection to the additional fee provided for by the article on anaesthetics. We are well aware of the great shortage that exists. But do you consider that the main problem posed by the movement of anesthetics into the hospital from which they are moved, or to the positions or structures from which they are moved? Also, is it faced with the fact that the mobile anesthesiologist can generally update even all the days of the month? We believe, of course, that in other specialists' specialties such as these there are gaps and we do not understand why they are excluded from this arrangement. Are you going to be recruited by permanent and full-time full-time staff of these missing specialties? Can not handle these gaps by closing a gap, creating another. Also in relation to Article 7, with the extension of the workers' contract at the Ioannina Hospital, why do you not go ahead with the permanentisation of the necessary staff? Of course we agree with the extension of their contract. With regard to Article 4, which is a fair request from private pharmacies and which is rightly introduced, we believe that 2.5% of the interest rate on repayments should be deducted, because it is not their responsibility to delay the amounts. Of course we have a position on the total abolition of rebate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u146	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry, Mr. Kelles. You are an anesthesiologist too, it is an opportunity for you to support this amendment. Thank you for your comments, Mrs. Konnakka. We have said that this is our first intervention on the incentives to be given to specific qualifications. And we start from anesthesiology, because it is the specialty that most doctors and doctors in this Chamber know we have a huge problem. I said that there is an overall stimulus that we will give to all priority specialties so that these people remain in the National Health System. I have said this many times in the context of parliamentary scrutiny that we want and need permanent solutions to the National Health System. We did it and we do it. Two and a half thousand recruits of permanent medical staff in three years and another five hundred posts in the next few days are being launched and added to the two and a half thousand posts already proclaimed. It is very important to signal to the medical community that the National Health System is changing, that the National Health System is modernising and offers financial and other incentives in order to make a career in this system. We all know that there is a great wave of retirement in the ERC. We need new blood. We are doing this, and we are modernising it, as we did during the pandemic period, both in material and economic resources and in human resources and not just in medical staff. We also have nine hundred other staff seats, which will be launched through ADP. There is already the notice 6K of the AACC with more than a thousand two hundred positions that are under way and there is a design to fill empty organic positions in order to meet the needs. I would also like to remind you of the commitment we have made to the proclamation of four thousand permanent nursing staff serving in the National Health System at the moment in the pandemic period, and at the end of September we shall proceed to the proclamation of the four thousand posts. One more thing about the provision for pharmacists. The country's financial data are specific. If there was a possibility, and we could not impose this interest rate on the pharmacists, we would. Of course this interest rate is the least possible that we must impose. I am referring to the country's financial possibilities, because the provision we are bringing to the vote concerning the allowance to anestheticists will not only be irresponsible, but will also be tax-free. I repeat that this is our first intervention in a series of interventions which are motivated by the need to provide doctors with the National Health System. Finally, as regards the extension of contracts at the University Hospital of Ioannina, there are a few people who have passed through the last days of their working life. It's a little bit of a person. That is why we have this regulation. Once again, I would like to say that we are looking at the existing extensions of the conventions which have been extended because of the coronary. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the draft law on the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing is certainly a piece of legislation that further equips the legal order against crime. I would like to point out, Minister, that the issue of combating terrorism is one of the priorities that I have identified as head of the Greek delegation at the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly and we have set as a priority with colleagues from other Member States. These provisions harmonise your relevant legislative initiative to prevent and combat terrorism via the Internet. We therefore very much appreciate the fact that you are responding to the proposals in relation to strengthening state security in our region, and particularly important is the part of the provisions relating to speeding up the administration of justice. Of course the Judiciary welcomes the fact that the number of posts of judges of the ordinary administrative courts has increased positively. However, Minister, I would like to thank you for your initiative on the energy upgrade of the Larissa Justice and Carditsa, which are in the final stage almost five years after a failure. Thanks to you, Mr. Tsiara, and in collaboration with the Region of Thessaly and our district manager, there is a strategic aim. The study has been completed, it is part of the NSRF and two projects are expected to be auctioned, perhaps in the next month. An urgent need for the judiciary is finally being acted upon. Now as a doctor I would like to refer to the amendments made by the Ministry of Health concerning the support of the ESS and the continuous improvement of the health services provided to the citizens, as we promised, that is to say, and that we act every day in the two years of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Finally, with Amendment No 968, it is attempting to find a solution to the major problem of the lack of anaesthetics in the hospitals of the country with what this entails. And since I too happen to be an anesthetist, I know firsthand that this is one of the greatest challenges of the ESS. Our specialty is a difficult specialty that is not preferred by graduated doctors, since firstly it contains a very high risk on a lasting basis and secondly, private sector earnings are much higher. Result: a very small number of specialists and therefore specialists. I will mention to you, for example, that in anesthetics today, there are a hundred seventy-eight in Greece, while in the HSY there are just eight hundred and thirty - one anestheticists. More than half, that is, four hundred thirty, one director is heading for retirement, while the new entrants are far less than that means. That is why the permanent posts that are being proclaimed end most of the time. And as the Minister said, a typical example was in the 4th Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where of the eighteen declared anesthetic positions, the fifteen were barren, there was no candidate. Analogous to negative performance are the lists of subsidiary doctors. There's no doctor anesthesiologist on the list of adjuvants. In addition, private doctors and anaesthetics with blocks do not show any interest in cooperation. With Article 8, therefore, the amendment is granted monthly duty free and unpaid allowance of EUR 400 to all NSH anaesthetic doctors and EUR 250 to the qualified. In the same direction, the provision of Article 5 of the amendment, which provides a double fee, i.e. an additional daily wage for each day of employment more than regular wages for the anesthetics of the ESS moving to hospitals of the same or other health region to meet service needs, is also included. I would like to congratulate the Minister on trying to give solutions by giving considerable incentives to colleagues. But here I have to say something else. Of course, this is not a paradox because I know the answer that the Minister is going to give. This allowance should also be given to university anestheticists. After all, their number is too small. We're talking about 30 people across Greece. Of course, the Minister will say for his part that this is a matter for the Ministry of Education and not the Ministry of Health. But there must be consultation. Of course, I can predict that other specialities will also be provided for the training of intensive care units, say. The solution here is, of course, a fundamental one: the increase in the salaries of doctors in the ERC. Further, the amendment includes other crucial regulations, such as the provision for payment of pharmacy debts in a rational manner and in thirty-six instalments, and the most valuable provision for the battle against the pandemic provides for the acceptance of free services and digital support projects that have as their object the safe storage, storage and transport of medicines and the carrying out of vaccines against COVID -19. I've said it several times and I'll say it again. Our fellow citizens who are skeptical or fear of vaccination must bear in mind that 99% of those who are intensive or who have ended up invasive. Vaccination is the only solution to prevent a new pandemic wave and to restore our lives to normality. The Deputy Minister for Health has taken the initiative to allow private doctors to vacate homes and to invite them to join the national vaccination programme. The issue of vaccination is global and national at the same time, and all the political forces, self-government, church, business and civil society must make a joint contribution to the necessary population in order to achieve long-standing immunity. Finally, because things are being heard about the supposedly weakening of the ESS, I would like to stress that the very opposite is being proved. In these two years of the pandemic, almost two and a half thousand places of permanent doctors have been called. In the next few days, as the Minister said, there is a new notice for five hundred permanent doctors' posts in the ERC with emphasis on the positions they are currently serving to become permanent. Of course, faithfully to the Prime Minister's election promises in October, four thousand posts of MS, TS and PT nurses are being proclaimed, as well as a ninety other staff from various sectors and categories, paramedical, administrative and other staff. All of them will of course take into account the service during the pandemic. I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, two years after the country was governed by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy, our country is moving forward. The Greek state is constantly being modernised in response to all challenges. Within just two years, our country has become a co-formulator of regional and international developments which has become weak and has strong prospects for growth since the end of the pandemic. This draft law forms part of our policies for Greece of tomorrow, Greece of growth, uplifting, credibility, confidence, Greece of the new era, of the New Democracy. Of course, we are voting for it and I wish both the President and the government many years long and great successes in the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ragus, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Today, all day, Mr. Chiara, we've seen you with your phone in your hand as something that makes it hard for you. Is that Pakistani?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u152	Do you think there's something in this bill that makes me difficult, Mr. Ragosi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u153	This bill may not exist. This lacked the electronic application of how the government and state officials operate, as Pakistani mobiles reveal. In any case, apart from humor, there is also the serious aspect of this story, Mr Chiara. I hope you understand that. What's the serious side? The serious aspect arises from the fact that a newspaper in the country revealed yesterday that there are currently state officials who are now active, and indeed in writing - those messages are written in writing - the existence of Pakistani mobiles on the basis of which they communicate. They are mobiles that do not fall within the Greek network. There is, of course, the very serious issue that has arisen for Mr. Chardalis personally, as to whether he has given the mandate to go through basketballists of the Turkish team, but there is also the question of revealing that there are state officials, government officials, who operate on Pakistani phones. What happens one day after the government of the country? Nothing. What have you done about it? What have you done, Mr Tsiara, to move within the state mechanism the necessary control procedures so that they can be identified and until there is a final conclusion, if anything, to be made available? Your attitude, Mr Minister of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis - as a government I am speaking now and not personally of you - proves your guilt. Because a government which would have no problem confronting itself with such a complaint from a newspaper, the first of which would have been to order a sworn administrative examination and to initiate the procedure to make those complaints available. And you've got Mr. Mitsotakis and the ministers on other things being served by proving, I repeat, their guilt. And if you think it's a little bit of a matter of revealing that there's a para-state actually set up by you in the state, I think you're making a very big mistake. Laugh and if anything else you insult the Constitution, the laws, the institutions and the Greek state the way you operate. There has been an amendment today between the others, which we will obviously also vote against. I mean the amendment proposed by the Ministry of Digital Policy. Here he confessed the Deputy Prime Minister himself that he has not come after he has delivered an opinion on the principle of the protection of personal data. Mr Tsiara, you recognize that in the case of the French authority for the protection of personal data in France there have been a number of amendments and reservations that need to be taken to implement such a system, as has been done in the case of France. Here, then, we have the government's confession to admit that it does not have such an opinion and at the same time see it as nothing happens, that this regulation should be implemented without in any way clarifying too many issues and throwing water into the mill of questioning, suspicion and irrationalism. Then you are to blame for each other's statements, but your actions are not to blame. What would you mind waiting for a few days to get the opinion of the authority? What would you care about this step, if you believe it, at least equip it institutionally and legally in a fully-fledged way? Evidently nothing, except your diligence, sloppyness and irresponsibility on the basis of which you are ruling. You have been asked by the relevant department officer, Mr Marios Katsis so many times. You go to check not the existence - we said it before - but the plausibility of these documents and to assign it for the first time to private owners of the focus workers. What are you going to do with strangers? What are you going to do with tourists, Mr. Chiara? What are you gonna do? You have been asked by my colleague ten times and you have never answered them. What are you gonna do? All the tourist parts of the country right now, like all the catering shops have daily customers coming from abroad. They're tourists. What are you going to do with them? So for the first time, you are going to carry out a verification of the counterfeiting of these documents by individuals, who are not part of the state mechanism, and you are trying to do so without an opinion of the principle of the protection of personal data. And at the same time, of course, you are also institutionalising this notorious tip of 150 euros, which I think will be a good thing to remain in history as an act of insulting the dignity of the new generation of our country. You are showing the new generation that it needs 150 euros to respond to the extent that it decides and wishes to this important, the top social and individual duty to protect their individual health each young person and every new one. And all this, of course, is part of a global context which, unfortunately, brings the Greek society into pre-response and full of problems. Because, although the "Delta" mutation is obviously a mutation that is, unfortunately, now developing globally, but here we are dealing with again as a society the dynamic return of the coronary, through the Delta mutation, based on a government that is re-engaging and which, in a way that is completely sloppy, continues to manage this major problem for society. The most characteristic example is what you did with masks. You went out to tell the Greek people that you no longer need to wear masks. You went out once again to say things that you can't even agree to the scientists you have appointed to the Committee on Infectiouss, so that we can get back to a point where we need to turn back, change the data, change the behaviours, change the decisions, and then, together with all that at the end, break down even further the shameful confidence of Greek society towards the government. And that is what you do not think, Mr Chiara and ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy is just a criticism. It is now abstract and is recorded in all research that explores the Greek society's view of how you manage pandemic as government. All research shows too negative data on how you manage pandemic as government. Of course, next to this, we also have the courage of Mr Mitsotakis himself, a truly unprecedented in time for the Greek Prime Minister in a period of national crisis, to clear up this extreme, obscene and divisive phrase about the sanitary sabotage of counter-population that his government says exists. Honestly in a period of national crisis - because the Koroni crisis is also a national crisis - there was no Prime Minister to eviscerate more division - which must also distinguish the country's political and party system - than Mr Mitsotakis thought. He can no longer restrain his arrogance, speaking of a health sabotage of Antipoliticism. And who does sabotage? Sampotaz, isn't it when in the middle of the deepest Lockdown went to Ikaria and participated in the coronary? Sampotaz sanitary was not his behavior, going cyclistry in Parnitha as if nothing had happened, without any protection measures and photographed and played with any citizens he met that day? What's that? But unfortunately, it seems that nothing is changing or going to change. You will remain unwelcome of learning and, unfortunately, the country will continue to have the management of the pandemic left in the hands of a government that proves both sloppy and obscene and above all irresponsible. Minister, I will conclude with a word about the bill, as it has been said with excellent completeness and very thoroughly and documented by our rapporteur, saying that we have written history in this regard for you. And the story you didn't write with today's bill and you won't write it with any other bills you might bring in this area. Mr Aylonite told you and other colleagues have told you. Your story - and unfortunately it is not well written, Mr Chiara - has been written by the change you have made in the legislative framework for the appointment of the administration to combat black money. Because for the first time you have dared and thought to rescind the independent role of this principle that emerged from the fact that its administration was appointed by justice and not by the government in question. You have established a few months ago your ability to appoint as a government the leaders of the principle of combating black money and you have also been appointed, by your own decision, by the leaders of this principle. It's not a personal matter, Mr. Xanthopoulou told you. People are excellent and no one has any doubts. But you know, Mr. Chiara, what have you done, which will be the story you wrote? These officials, former public prosecutors and now head of authority, in the first case that they will be faced with a scandalous case involving a best friend of Mr Mitsotakis - and he has many such best friends as Mr Mitsotakis - will lead them to resignation. If they were appointed by decision of Greek justice, you would never have been able to give up on them, nor would they have ever been given up on resignation. Now you have actually placed them there provided that you do not judge that it is time to resign or lead them to resignation. So this, Mr. Chiara, is also the essential...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u154	You'll say it later, because you don't sound. Leave the Pakistani cell phone. I see you've got a lot of cell phones. Do you have three? One will surely be Pakistani, not all three Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u155	No one's Pakistani.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u156	So, Mr Chiara, I'm telling you that this was the story you wrote on this. That doesn't change now. Any researcher, a scientist, will refer to the history of the efforts made by the country in institutional and political terms to combat black money, will fall on this first truth: that since the creation of this principle, even before you legislated the change, all administrations do not define by any government, that is, their heads, but have been defined by justice. Until you guys came and changed it. You put them in, and we'll see the following. Here we will be, Mr Tsiara, you have essentially and literally mined the independence of this principle just so that at any time you can press on the dismissal of these people, if you ever see that it is possible for the investigations that will be done to combat the black money to fall on your friends, Prime Minister and Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantinidis has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the final straight to its vote there is another law to combat money laundering following the correct legislative improvements, particularly that of harmonising the commitment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is the third legislative initiative in the last three years in this area. In the first place, Directive 2015/849/EC was incorporated into national law by Law No 4557/2018 and amended by Law No 4734/2020 and incorporated Directive 2018/843 and Article 3 of Directive 2019/2177. However, and before these, there were repeated legislative interventions that were more important than Law No.3691/2008 replacing Law 2331/1995 and incorporated into our legislation Directives 2005/60 and 2006/70, Law No.3875/2010 which ratified the UN Convention against National Organised Crime, also known as the Palermo Convention, Law No.3932/2011 setting up an independent authority instead of a committee, the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Crime Acts and Law No.4478/2017 with which, among other things, the Council of Europe Convention signed in Warsaw in May 2005 was ratified. In addition, according to the Acts Nos 4099/2012, Nos 4174/2013 and No4389/2016. A two-digit number of legislative interventions has emerged from the outline review only in the last 13 years. Although it is necessary, since this subject has a transnational dimension and has a lasting development which obliges the relevant reform and alignment of national legislation in the European framework for the joint management of crimes of increased risk and indifference. Money laundering means the practice of money laundering crime products through their passage into the normal economy in order to cover their illegal origin. The fight against money laundering from criminal activities, Anti - Money Laundering, began in the 1980s as a priority for many states. Within the European Union, the value of suspicious transactions is estimated at EUR hundreds of billion, at 1.3% of Gross Domestic Product, while worldwide is estimated to be 3% of the corresponding GDP. In our country, apart from the prosecution and judicial authorities, an essential role is in preventing and suppressing such acts. The Bank of Greece, which controls the compliance of supervised institutions in the institutional framework and evaluates the effectiveness of the procedures they apply and, of course, the independent authorities established for this purpose. With regard to the Ministry of Justice's draft law to be passed, arrangements are now being made to prevent and suppress money laundering and terrorist financing by amending the provisions of Law 4557/2018 and incorporating Directive 2018/1673 and, on the one hand, to speed up the administration of justice. In particular, the most important changes promoted by the incorporation of the European Directive refer to the redefinition of acts that constitute money laundering and basic offences, the penalties imposed, the conditions and the procedure for freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of money laundering and the liability of legal persons from the execution of such acts. Furthermore, the part relating to the speeding up of the administration of justice is redefined as the jurisdiction of the administrative courts to annul and decisions of a substantive nature, the possibility of making claims for the limitation of the public’s right to impose a tax or a fee for the first time in opposition provided that they have not been judged by another court with the force of res judicata. The number of posts of judges shall be increased in the administrative courts and transitional provisions shall be introduced in the case of cases pending before the ordinary administrative courts and the provisions repealed after and the removal of Article 17 which regulates the matter of the commitment shall be laid down. The aim of the draft law is therefore to improve national legislation in order to align it with the European framework and to allow for more effective cooperation with other states. As has been said repeatedly, illegal money laundering practices are developing rapidly, and this requires a constant legislative adjustment to the new data. Recently under number 13 of 2021 a special report from the European Court of Auditors points out that at European Union level the actions undertaken to prevent laundering and terrorist financing are characterised by institutional fragmentation and incomplete coordination. Its institutions have limited tools to ensure the adequate implementation of the European regulatory area in national legal classes, and there is no single European supervisory authority and the relevant competences of the European Union are allocated to its various bodies. We hope that, with the adoption of the recommendations of the European Court of Auditors and other competent bodies in the complex but extremely important issue, this will become more effective in combating the washing-out that fuels organised crime and terrorism. As far as we are concerned, harmonisation with European legislation is another step in limiting the phenomenon, so we are voting in favour of the draft law under discussion and the proposed amendments which deal effectively with issues in their area of competence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u159	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Webex now has the floor for Mr. Lappas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are again discussing a directive containing criminal provisions and it is a very good opportunity to say a few views on the justice system in our country. I also told you in all the bills in previous directives - I think that the sixth or seventh of this issue we are discussing today in the fight against laundry, terrorist financing, we have also had other directives and we have also discussed the amendments to the Criminal Code that you have brought - that SYRIZA has a general position that is also a general principle - that is to say, to the small and medium-sized offences, to the extremes of gravity, to the again respecting the principle of proportionality as set out in Article 25 of the Constitution and of course the principles governing Union law. This is a good opportunity to say two things - particularly for Mr Kotsira - for criminal justice. Criminal law, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, is not neutral. It is not regulatory, it does not regulate private-law relationships, it does not settle citizens' demands. It is important, of course, that this is important. But what's he doing? I would say that he does what Professor Stephanos Paul said at a conference some time ago: he is impatient, ius puniendi, i.e... This appalling, horrendous power of the State by giving law, of course, always respecting the principle of proportionality and self-limiting at all levels of manifestation from the beginning to the end of the criminal proceedings because the self-restriction of state power in relation to ius puniendi is a sign of culture and all civilised States the first that they did was precisely this, the self-restriction of the state when exercising this enormous power, 'ius puniendi'. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] Also for Mr Kotsira, I wanted to say that the previous Criminal Code you know was characterized by the legal community after 1950 as a gigantic creation of European above all, because there were the first major issues and the great dialogue, but also by Greek legal culture, especially after the Second World War massacre. And the old Criminal Code of 1950, that is to say, until the change that we made in 2019, was a code that had a humanitarian character, was personalised and managed to balance between protecting legal goods on the one hand and on the other hand ensuring a level of rights for the citizens concerned. That was the balance and that was maintained for many decades. When did it start to change? Listen to me. I'll tell you when it started to change and what I'll tell you to keep it. It started to change this balance - it was not a balance of terror, it was a harmony between these two fields that I told you - when the Greek state now started bringing changes, additions, adaptations, by legislating not according to the figures that existed in the course of the indicators of crime. But with what? At the juncture, news and press headlines, which seem to be terrorizing and terrorizing the Greek state and scaring it and scaring it inconsistently, badly in my view! Criminal justice is not awarded on a headline, it is not awarded on occasional and topical initiatives. It is provided with a lot of thought, with much meditation and on the basis of always objective data which has been provided primarily - not to say - exclusively the scientific community and justice. One is that. So we started bombing the penal codes with amendments and additions which finally became, Mr Ministers, the Penal Code being on paper the strictest in Europe and, in general, the most favourable penal code. Is it possible - Mr Kotsira, remember - to charge 15 years for a felony and suspend the sentence? It was with the Criminal Code. Is it possible for there to be a 20-year sentence and a conversion? It was the one with the Criminal Code! So we have made papers too strict a legislative framework and finally the creation of sentences to be cotton, cotton and slapping. That was the need that he imposed after this conclusion of a nice piece of legislation that was wonderful for his time, to make the new Criminal Codes. And what did the new Criminal Code do? He said - I shall say it again with one word - the lost principle of proportionality on the issue of the criminal law, the charging of penalties. And it is not the result of the SYRIZA government, nor of a man, nor of a committee. And stop whacking with the version of a negative, deceptive speech on the subject of the codes. The codes are huge creations of concentration, classification and literacy of decades. Big, huge sizes are that have honored our country. Universities abroad have headlines outside their universities, such as Androylakis, Emmanoulidis. Today, Mrs Symiidou - Kastanidou, the Union of Criminal Scientists, the professors of legal schools, the Criminal Law, are honoring our country. So let's hear them. What's your department thinking about doing, I don't know. But I think it is wise to place the Lambros Margaritis, a short-sighted man, and this, Minister, and I believe that some extreme voices of your party will hold them back and will look primarily at what is being imposed. I'm done with this. Let's go on a second topic. I shall say a few words about the directive, Mr President, and Minister. Really why do we need such directives to be repeated at European level? Because we lawyers say that a law, whatever law, whether domestic or European, or international, if changes occur, additions, alterations, modifications, changes, loses its systematic and serological substance and importance. But does this arsenal, which we keep giving directives, directives, directives, directives, actually help to make it effective in dealing with money laundering as a product of crime? No, I answer you, Minister! And I don't call it arbitrary. Let me tell you why. Now listen to two investigations: one of the 'BBC' - the credibility of which I do not believe is questioned by anyone, and if it is questioned, it will only be questioned - and a publication of an Italian journalist - researcher of the 'BLOOMBERG'. FinCEN is the U.S. Ministry of Finance Prosecutor. In studies in two thousand six hundred and seventy suspect accounts, the two thousand percent eleven proved to be a transfer of proceeds of crime, i.e. legalization by a criminal organization. And he says "BBC": "Number money is so much now, which is a blood donor to the banking system. It is money that the system needs, so that it can show something from profits and stand to international competition." And then the reporter says and now listen to the irony: "Everybody needs to know that, okay, you know how to steal. Do you know how to hide it?’ This is done and is a theater of absurdity both at European and international level. Indeed, the European Union and the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, have classified which states are suspected of such transactions and, having included signs and monsters, half the planet of Africa and Asia, neither a bank of a European state has included in this list, as is unknown to the legal community, the European, world, international and Greek, that the systemic large banks of the states of the core of the European Union do nothing but have made dirty money washing machines by terrorist organisations, by drug trafficking, arms trafficking, trafficking and much more, which the publication says and I do not want to repeat. Now I'm going to the BLOOMBERG post, to understand the great importance. While, he says, they are obliged by the European Central Banks to always know the client who is trading large amounts and have to announce it within sixty days, all systemic banks make a mention of imperfect, almost negligent type, after a couple of days. And the journalist asks: "What can be done between the 60th day that is the date until the two-hour day when within hours can the funds move electronically?"
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Lappa, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u162	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u163	You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u164	One minute and I've closed, Mr. President. I have something important to say. I could tell you, if I had time, last words of top figures from the European Commission and the European Council. They confirm what I told you before, that we need to do more. And more than that is what I told you before. We are not left out as a European community - and as a Greek and a Greek, I would say - of legal provisions. What I am saying, Mr Ministers, is that there must be this concrete, courageous political decision to deal with the problem and only to find evidence. Imagine that Gabriel in 2015 talked about our country - he knows from his own big bank, Deutsche Bank, who is a champion in laundry at a pan-European level - and blamed Greece. Of course, then they were other governments. He said: "We donated entrepreneurial loans and money to Greece, were tearing them apart from here and from there. They didn't go any good. We used to sit there and listen." Gabriel said so, the former Chancellor! Now Gabriel Zucman, another factor in European intellectualism, said that Greek deposits in Switzerland only amount to 60 billion and account for 30% of GDP, when no European country has deposits with a European money bank that has never been controlled and has not been taxed more than 3%. And we have 30% of GDP! And I ask the Minister and I close, Mr President: has he ever checked this thing, 60 billion, 30% in a tax haven in just one bank, the HSBC? So I, in whatever decision you make to strengthen the arsenal, am positive. But you know that, because this hypocrisy exists in both Greece and Europe, this hypocrisy destabilizes the legal order, insults human rights, undermines democracy and undermines the economic expectations of our people and society. So let us make sure that these expectations are at one time opposed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. The last speaker, Mr Kotrias, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill once again, the Ministry of Justice takes a step forward, a step towards rationalising our legal system, a step which, in line with the European Union's directives and good practices, strengthens our legal arsenal. In this context, Directive 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23-10-2018 on combating money laundering through Criminal Law aims at improving and strengthening existing national legislation and the legal framework. Furthermore, this incorporation achieves adaptation to recent legislative developments at domestic and European level, as well as the achievement of optimal border cooperation between the competent authorities. A long-term objective of the bill is to streamline criminal law on the treatment of money laundering and the imposition of similar sanctions on perpetrators in order to prevent and safeguard the rights of trustworthy third parties and those who have been harmed by crime. The need to introduce this is apparent from the constantly evolving phenomenon of money laundering and the concentration of assets for terrorist purposes, which in recent years dictates a frequent review and the immediate implementation of new directives and rules, but also effective cooperation between the competent authorities involved. The arrangements of the draft law concern any natural person, Greek or foreign person, who is an act of money laundering in Greece, and includes acts that are also Greek to foreign persons, as well as legitimisation acts that are foreign to the foreign but for the benefit of a legal person or entity associated with Greece. In particular, as referred to in Article 2, which describes the subject matter of the bill and the main axes for achieving its purpose, it is foreseen: Firstly, the transposition of the 2018 directive to which I referred. Secondly, the update of the list of basic offences. Thirdly, the remodeling of the penalties provided for. Fourthly, the adaptation and alignment of the conditions and procedure for the freezing and confiscation of crime products by money laundering with the Criminal Code. And fifthly, the provision of sanctions for legal persons and entities. Article 4 describes in detail cases involving money laundering from criminal activities in another State. Furthermore, it is envisaged to be possible to convict money laundering from criminal activities, where it is shown that the property has resulted in criminal activity, without even requiring that all the facts relating to that criminal activity be legitimised. Article 5 lists criminal acts defined as basic offences from which property to be legalised is derived. In this article, crimes were updated on the basis of the changes made by the Criminal Code and new offences, such as corruption and bribery to alter the result of a struggle, cross-border VAT fraud crimes and crimes for the criminal protection of the European Union's interests, were included. The list of basic offences has now been included in any other crime punishable by means of a custodial sentence of liberty, including even any felony or flood that is not specifically provided for in the list of basic offences, but which can be the main offence of legalisation under specific conditions. In Article 6, also changes are made to the criminal sanctions imposed in the event of legalisation offences being committed. This incorporates the provisions of Directive 2018, which provide for the obligation of Member States to establish criminal sanctions but also aggravating circumstances for legalisation offences and also include provisions on the jurisdiction of Member States in respect of money laundering offences and their obligation to ensure that effective investigative instruments are available to combat money laundering. The new Criminal Code also aligns the provisions on the creation of assets and the arrangements for compensation for the public, in accordance with Articles 7 and 8 respectively, while the process of commitment is streamlined and its enforcement is adapted to the procedural requirements of the new Code of Criminal Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law to be passed serves a very important purpose, that of suppressing organised crime and protecting the financial system of the country, as well as ensuring its integrity and credibility towards our European partners. This is what serves him consistently and seriously, and that is why I think he should have a positive vote on all of my fellow Members. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too, Mr Kotrias and the consistency of time. Before the process is completed with the Minister's speech, I would like to ask which of the special speakers and rapporteurs wants a few minutes of intervention. We start from the end to the beginning and we'll be done with Mr. Ypsilanti. It has the floor for three minutes - with a small tolerance - the special buyer of Mera25 Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. I have exhausted my remarks and my position on the bill. I shall refer to the amendment on the EUR 150 for the ages of eighteen to twenty-five years for young people who will make the first dose of vaccination. Here we have a consortium on the part of the government on its enormous failure to manage the pandemic more widely, but also much more on vaccinations. The government faced young people with targeting them, considering them as riots, as irresponsible, faced them with propaganda and a lot of wood on squares and streets. The schools are closed, the universities are closed, the closure of university departments, the deterioration of public health. Now he treats them as spoiled children who, in order to be persuaded to do the vaccine, have to accept this baxie, because it is bribery, for a clear purchase of consciences, and that is because the government has lost control over vaccinations. He had announced that around the end of June we would be at 70% of the vaccinations. We're at 32% to 36%. So, at the moment, it is trying to shift responsibility with social automation and "salamation" of society. Our young people, who are one of the most vulnerable and impoverished parts of society, should be treated with benefits, and should not get to the point that we are working on them as a means of triggering social automation in order to divide, plunder Greek society, when the primary responsibility for failure to manage the pandemic is the government. So we call on the Prime Minister not to be spent. The kids will keep their dignity. Of course we are voting against the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. We've been through it all. After all, we have referred to the previous plenary sessions too many times in 150. Mr President, sometimes we wonder. We cannot see what we see, common sense, self-evidently not perceived by the government. So, obviously, they have a goal, a purpose. I don't know if they're doing a specific project. I don't know what's on their minds. But we never expected that we would reach this point. I told Mr Georganta before. 150 is a merciful move of clear takeover for the young, whom you find, etc. They were spoiled by Georgiadis, the Prime Minister was pulling the finger here and saying they are the ones who are fully responsible for dispersing the pandemic with the coronary parties, etc. We've been through this, let's not talk about it again. The kids took your ass, they're really smart. Don't underestimate the young. Our youth is brilliant and they have a crisis and they have everything. The fact that we would actually get to the point of a health store owner, a tavern, a bar owner to control me with a special machine that you brought in here today to see if I'm going to sit down, where I'm going to sit, if I can, etc. is unheard of and suggest measures inapplicable that belong to the sphere of imagination. The Minister said earlier: "If we go to dinner, I will get in while you will be afflicted because you will have to do rapid - test or PCR every time." First, then, you oblige people to pay twenty and sardines. Four people, a family equals 160 euros before sitting in the tavern before ordering. If he's ordering, another 160. You can't do that. Secondly, if we leave here on 15 July - when the measure will be applied - and go to a shop, do you think that where you sit on the table this really funny measure will apply? The measure is not about 20% that may be invasive, so you have covered the large population. Here 30% are vaccinated and 70% isolate it. You're in panic. It's a difficult equation, it's difficult to handle. You have made them seas from the first moment until now and make panic moves, spasmous movements. Question: I'm going to a shop. Here, no vaccination certificate. You want a test? Do you want a disease? Let's just say it's forged. What will the shopkeeper do to me? Will he call the police to arrest me? What's the storekeeper doing, the bar owner to me? What's he gonna do to me? What will he do to the citizen? What if I take my son's and go? Will he check? He doesn't say a name upstairs. Unless it says a name, evidence, APM, everything. So these are inappropriate measures. Yeah, seasons are critical, but not that way. Don't divide society. You're already coming and you're presenting them to us as great achievements, great ideas. I really don't think about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not going to talk about the bill. We talked in detail. I will talk about the amendments. I made a brief reference to my prototype. The amendment on debt arrangements to the Single Public Procurement and Care Organisation is characteristic. Is this one of the characteristic cases where an illegality is based on legal regulations, because what else can one say when the fines and interest imposed on the media owners because illegally and arbitraryly retained insurance contributions, i.e. the wage share of the employees, are deleted in order to get these insurance benefits into the arrangement, when all these employers, the media owners illegally withhold them, and even for this part of 2% of the turnover to the EAGF, where the Council of State found that it was right to legislate and that it is a resource for the insurance fund and has to be paid? Such an option, which gives fines and surcharges, actually opens the appetite for other media entrepreneurs not to pay withholding workers' money, to make it difficult for insurance funds to cover workers' health care and, of course, to wait for harmless regulations that go up to the closure or bankruptcy of businesses and eventually disappear. Of course we can see that in regional channels there are small and large owners. That is why a threshold could be introduced for micro-enterprises, such as for self-employed people with an annual income of less than EUR 12 000. To those who are small and find it difficult to list interest and surcharges. Now, in relation to the amendment by the Ministry of Digital Governance, which has been a great deal of talk about, it is a feature of the effort made by the government to hide its criminal responsibilities for the management of the pandemic, which is even culminating in this period, when as a result of the whole situation we have experienced, it is announcing a new merger of hospitals. Of course, once again, it goes on not just to invoke individual responsibility, but with its most degenerating version in this effort, if you would like, in exchange for young people to push them into vaccination, which we obviously think is necessary and must do, but this cannot be dealt with in such terms as gifts and gifts, but it must be done by ensuring that the government gives up its recurring and contradictions, that the primary and public health system is fully supported, so as not finally to strengthen any reasonable irrationalism that undermines the health and protection of the people. At the same time, it takes responsibility both for maintaining and controlling vaccination measures and protection measures to the shopkeepers, the self-employed, to whom the weight of both the choice of how the store operates and for the proper application of the measure. At the same time, of course, you do not say that such regulation is essentially intended to stop the financial support measures from the authorities, as, as the government's officials dispense with the financial support, it is over, since you say in theory that the shopkeepers could open their shops by monitoring the compliance of the measures themselves. In this way you are creating even greater problems than you are trying to solve. Obviously, we will vote against this amendment. In relation to the amendment - and I am closing - of the Ministry of Health I mentioned earlier. However, it is characteristic and creates a problem, if you wish, for our choice to vote on the amendment that, together with positive regulations, there are others which we cannot support, for example, that the Government essentially places this really serious process of safe storage, transportation and storage of medicinal products exclusively in possible donations or offers. And what if these donations and offers aren't given? In fact, when these are generally given for consideration, as was the case, to the pharmaceutical industry, where the free use of their vaccine infrastructure coincided with gifts granted, by reducing the amounts of their compulsory refund to the EEA, the provocative 10-year and undeclared repayment of its debts and its equivalent exemption from compulsory refunds on investment in research and innovation. There are, of course, available to the funds that do not exist to give the self-employed and others who are really experiencing serious problems. So in this amendment we shall be in favour of'representations', although there are positive arrangements to which I referred earlier, in Article 4, 7 and 8, which we would like to vote on, but we cannot vote on the amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, Minister, I think there has been a very serious and very constructive debate with this bill both during committees and in plenary. There were, I think, a series of proposals made by the Opposition, which we, as a Movement of Change, proposed by the institutions, and I must admit that it is absolutely in the positive direction that you have heard them, understood them, agreed and included them in the legislative improvements. That is something we must recognize. It is something that honors you and I wish we could continue to move into all the next legislation of the Ministry of Justice in this way, Minister. I think that this should be the way we would be moving in all the bills, we with proposals, you listen to, adopt and move forward in this way. I am going to speak about the amendments, and I am going to speak very briefly, Mr President. In particular, for the last two amendments, Minister, a number of comments should be noted. Unfortunately, the government's distorting practice remains in place to bring great amendments and many provisions that are heterogeneous among themselves which make it impossible for the constructive and creative opposition that at least we in the Change Movement to exercise. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to put forward a motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure, so that you can give the House the right to vote separately, Mr Minister, so that our vote can be taken clearly and without margin for misinterpretation of any separate provision that exists, it is incorporated into amendments. Unfortunately, however, this has not happened even today. So we cannot have a single vote on amendments to many of the articles that do not agree with us in all or against it, and that is why we cannot vote on the last two amendments, Mr President. For example, we consider the platform 'MyHealth' to be positive, or to issue electronic medical attestations. We consider it positive a number of provisions and Amendment No 968 of the Ministry of Health on donations for vaccinations, to meet emergencies at the University Hospital of Ioannina. But I wonder, Minister, how can we vote when there are provisions in the same amendment for pharmacists with whom we at least disagree radically, we disagree vertically and have said so in the past, or when no convincing answers are given, because we are only talking about strengthening the anesthetics and not about other specialities that are absolutely crucial in dealing with pandemic. In Amendment 969 I think - and I am going to stay on this, Mr Minister - that it is even symbolic if you wish - a measure which, for the government, is positive for you, the EUR 150, is a notebook for the money laundering bill. I think you understand that. First of all, it is wrong to have your intention that no one doubts that it is positive. From there on, we in no way think that the instrument to encourage vaccination is sufficient. I am convinced that, Minister, we need information. A serious and targeted campaign is needed with science in first place, not politics and benefits, but science, knowledge of what the vaccine is, about how it works, about how it helps, about how dangerous it is to stay inconsistent when the mutations go along with each other. I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: it is very important through every public position and by Parliament's plenary to stress the need to persuade Greek citizens to be vaccinated. We believe - and we are pioneers - in strengthening the vaccination campaign. We will remain protagonists of vaccines and call on Greek citizens to be vaccinated. I will close with just one comment in relation to Article 1 of the amendment on the application of the focus control measures. We are not opposed to such applications, but it is other than whether the measures will be implemented and how realistic these measures are you bringing us. It seems unjustified, however, and it is totally ineffective that the government plays a role as auditor of the focus companies themselves. You can understand that this will cause problems. It is a proposal which, in any case, causes reasonable reactions to the focus area and can lead to very dangerous effects. We therefore believe that this regulation must be changed and this control role must be taken by the state. That is something we all agree on and that is, of course, a negative one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulos. The rapporteur for SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Aylonite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. What's to change now, Mrs. Giannakopoulou? Whatever we say, they have already given us the bill fully supplemented with the amendments made by Mr Chiara. That's how it's always done in the House. I wish we could talk here and find the common make-up on all matters. Unfortunately, this is our political system, and I think that through diversity and opposition the composition is produced and progressing our political system. As long as we're serious and keep our political stature high. Minister, I'll tell you why I'm saying this. I told you in my first position that we have some reservations about our attitude and how the whole process will develop. I did not say that in general and vaguely. I'll explain why. Previously, before the third meeting of our committee, the Committee on Institutions and Transparency - if I am not mistaken - met the issue of the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the black money authority. Do you remember when you voted for a provision a while ago - Mr Ragus told you - that you were given the opportunity to choose for these positions and retired judges? And we asked you why. The old rules that stipulate that justice will lay down in active court are a good regulation. It turns out in practice - and this is why the reservation - that you were waiting for 30 June and the two judges Vice-Presidents of the Ice Arena you appointed, to end their term of office on account of age and immediately to be appointed. Not even two or three days have passed. Why, then, should we believe that whatever action you make is well-meaning?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u177	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u178	Answer me. Mr. Ragus told you. I'll tell you something else now. I watched Mr. Plearis coming here. I watched the clock across the street. He had 12 minutes and nine minutes out of ten of his speech dedicated them to Mr. Polakis. Mr. Paulakis hurts you very much. But I know that my party, the party, yours, the parties all have their administrative structure and their political position is expressed by the institutions. Is it or isn't it? You have taken an unfortunate, in your view, action by Mr Polakis and you have made it a flag. If we sit down for each of you to record what you have done - and you, Mr. Plearis and I, say for me - in the course of your political career, then would we identify any mistakes you made as mistakes of your party's mechanism? Of course not! If there are mistakes made by Mr Paulakis, because for a long time and as a doctor he has said his scientific opinion and never refused vaccination, to tell the truth. Can I tell you something else about the matter of credibility, Mr. Pleari? You said about bribery and bribery. I ask you straight away something I asked the Minister for Justice about. We're lawyers, you and I. I want you to tell me whether the Legislative Committee set up in 2017 and received the work of the Criminal Code Legislative Committee in 2013, the bribery provision received it exactly as it was passed one day before the government of Alexis Tsipras resigned. But tell me why we're not all eating hay in here. Nobody eats hay. We know. But people don't know exactly what happened. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, time has passed. I want to say two things in relation to legal improvements. It is a good thing that you change in relation to the Castanides proposal. I said it in my first talk. I will not say that it is in the context of political courtesy. It was a matter of political, reasonable pressure from all of us, from all of the Anti-Population and from the scientists who have been paralysed by the committee. Mr Kastanides told you this, but also the others on Article 262 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Don't say now that we're all loved and we're gonna get out of here and go with our arms and bathe at sea! This is the legal and political reality that you have accepted. Good. However, in the same article on the Kastanidis proposal, the problem remains that reference has been removed to the establishment of a criminal organisation. Can I tell you something else about Article 17 that you were abolished? In my opinion, you should have, if you considered there to be the subject of discussion, and we too, the Civic Opposition, right things, anticipate a two-year extension for all the cases that your regulation has dealt with with Law 4637/2019. You know what happened to that story, don't you? You know, three times I've said it here in my speech. To a large number of suspects or accused persons who have been or are to be referred to the audience on their own initiative or directly, their accounts have been released and, in fact, if they are assumed to be brought to a judgment, there will be no material object to be convicted. Mr President, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Alonite. We shall conclude the seconds of the rapporteurs and of special speakers with Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Highlands, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that at the end of the debate we should confess to some things. Firstly, these ministers and the government in question are acquainted with what society comes and conveys us under the parliamentary procedure of the institutions, but also with the views of our Parliaments here, when these views are serious, when they are based on logic and when they are not opinions which come and are expressed in our Parliament on the basis of populism and sterile party exploitation. I therefore believe that the Minister and the State Secretary today, the Ministry of Justice, has accepted such amendments that have actually heard things which have either brought gaps or created problems both for confiscation of the property and for other corrections made, such as the one concerning the identity of the person, etc. I would like to say something with this position on our work in both committee and in plenary and accepting these proposals, because in the light of the amendments there has also been an extensive reference to the issues of dealing with the pandemic. This government, as any serious governor, must do, puts the protection of public health first and, of course, support for the health system in our country. From there on, when there is data that needs to be readjusted, a correction, an improvement, when there is a need at the same time and even decisions to premium good actions, the good tactics followed by some who help and support a laborious, huge effort of our own society and of all societies throughout the world, especially in Europe, cannot be judged here. You cannot come here and say that rewarding this great effort is money, that it is - I have heard it - a baxism, that it is a social automation of our youth. This is what youth itself hears, which is watching us. And in such a struggle that is currently being held in our country, but also throughout the world, to get away from this evil, to overcome the new waves that are coming when they are heard by responsible political forces, so where do things go? How do we want to drive them? Again in these divisions we had during the memorial period, 'the good' and 'the bad'? I have not heard any serious ideas here about how to deal with the situation from now on. Nothing has been said, absolutely nothing. At least this government of Mr Mitsotakis has in recent years given a stigma very different, a stigma of seriousness, a stigma that wants things to be controlled and able to lead them to their right path. It has also been the way to tackle the great problem of pandemic, and so we continue to give the struggle, a struggle that must find victorious and united our people. We do not create 'pros and cons' orders. But we want all the Greeks united in this effort and we will not stop rewarding those who respond. But we will not stop here, at least in the middle, also stigmatising those who want to divide our people and lead things to different paths. With these thoughts, Minister, I would like to close and thank you for the cooperation. However, I would like to remind you once again that the issue of the Rhodes Land register must be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u181	And we thank Mr. Ypsilanti. And now the Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr Constantine Tsiara, to conclude today's very busy meeting. Minister, the word for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed completed the debate on another bill of the Ministry of Justice, which, of course, mainly concerns the incorporation of a European directive on the fight against dirty, as we say, money. And the truth is that, in principle, we have followed the same practice in the discussions of all the instruments of the Ministry of Justice, with the attempt to incorporate observations which are made both at the hearing of the institutions and, of course, from the positions of colleagues. You know that I personally have a clear and firm intention when there are proposals that need to be analysed, they must be carefully approached, and we may have to take a concrete approach to the overall use of both the State Secretary and my colleagues to incorporate them into the final text of the bill. That's exactly what we did today. We heard the bodies - I imagine you agree that the whole of the bodies were positive towards the bill - we heard the comments specifically from the Committee on Criminals who had a very specific approach to some of the issues of the proposed bill, we heard many of the proposals made by the rapporteurs, the speakers of the parties, from Mr Aylonitis, from Mrs Giannakopoulou, from Mrs Adamopoulou, and we heard colleagues such as Mr Kastanides, who did hit the bell in one or two cases that we should see from another perspective and I think we were against you in the final debate in plenary in the Greek Parliament having been able to incorporate many of the remarks, showing that my firm view that the drafts of the Ministry of Justice may indeed be a parliamentary exercise is confirmed. Of course, there have also been many other issues which either the topical and urgent subjects of debate itself or the amendments that came through other ministries have created a more general debate. It is understandable, too, that it is more generally if you want and is part of parliamentary practice. But it's very important that we get things cleared up. And I say this because European directives - you know, ladies and gentlemen - have a very specific logic and, of course, seek to adopt all the things that are happening in the European legal system. I understand that there may be reservations, obviously there is the margin for some issues or issues that are incorporated into Greek legislation to be able to see them at their own glance, but from there one realizes that most of the proposed articles are articles which we cannot really change. So, then, we must see whether he is positive towards something that the European legal order can of course propose at the moment - it is a European directive, but on the other hand he is facing a very large pan-European and global issue - or whether he is simply opposed to any such logic. And the attitude of each of us, I think, is dictated by a attitude of responsibility and by an approach that cannot have different readings. A European directive or a European directive is adopted on the basis of the logic proposed or, if there is no willingness to follow European law - and I repeat, respect it - it is a view of some parties - it is obviously on the opposite side. But I repeat, the debate from there on - and I do not hide it - that I think it was a constructive debate that preceded and gave us the opportunity to raise issues, approach them and incorporate them - I think it had all the other aspects that concern either everyday life or topicality. And because a lot of things have been heard, which I think one should answer through a logic that not only can it have another perspective, but the reality itself requires, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is very easy for anyone here to come here and say what they believe, but you cannot speak with words that to a very large extent create questions. I have heard, for example, say that I am acting insulting or saying misery about some of the previous positions, whether Members of the Opposition or the previous government. I think we need to see, if not in the dictionary, what it actually means, what hybrids and what misery means. Because when there is real data, which cannot be disputed and which are specifically, we are not talking either of arrogance, of misery or of lies much more. When, of course, we do not like this is a political controversy which one can accept, but in no case can it adopt such terms and expressions that have nothing to do with reality. So let's go see why a lot of things have been set up and we have to look at them and analyse them. The Act of Friday, in the opinion of some of SYRIZA's colleagues, enabled justice to move faster, i.e. to respond to a major problem, which is speeding up justice. Really, ladies and gentlemen? Did the Law of Friday, intensified justice? I heard it from the Step here earlier. If you say that early releases can help speed up justice, that is rather a position that does not fall within any logic. There's something we don't understand. And I say it, because I personally want to make it clear that Mr. Paraskevilos respects him both as a scientist and as a human and for as long as he was one of the members of the political system of the Greek Parliament I believe he personally tried with good intention. Other if there was a different approach or an ideological opposition. But do you know where the problem is? The result itself. What did we do with the early releases? To see people repeat exactly the same violation - criminal behaviour. Is that what we wanted to achieve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u183	Is that it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u184	Obviously not, and that's reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u185	Decongestion?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u186	Trying to justify something in another way, however, obviously does not give rise to any reasonable explanation, nor much more to a reality that is already registered. So that is something that is absolutely clear. So let's go see the hurricane surrounding the 'white collar'. Is it not, or is it not true, that the overwhelming majority of Vice-Presidents, when they are at the Step of the House, always have financial crimes as a specific issue, as a concrete point of reference? The fact that there has been a Criminal Code that has to a very large extent abandoned the penalties for all these criminals under ordinary criminal law, murderers, rapists, is there any justification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u187	Are you going on with this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u188	Are you going to tell me that you had one-third of the sentence and we put two-five? Have you forgotten that you have reduced the penalties to tell me that you have put greater penalties? Here, then, there are things that cannot stand up to any such sort of rhetorical approach, but they only respond to reality itself, and we must, ladies and gentlemen, at some point, put aside this micro-political debate on the issues of justice and see where the reality lies and what we can do. Leave the other thing I heard earlier, that the government is working for justice. Really, ladies of the Officer's Representation, does this government work for justice? Have you ever seen me or Mr. Undersecretary going to the Arena Ice or any court, except for an official event? Because at least the hearings and images of a previous period have referred us somewhere else. It is well known that we are saying that the house of the hanged man is not talking about a rope, but here I think there is a hypocrisy that goes beyond anything and at some point, I repeat, we need to be very serious about a reality, which is undisputed, is well known, is registered and cannot be completely questioned. The management of the pandemic, a huge issue. Indeed, it is a huge issue, huge political controversy. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no greater value than human life. That is something we have to accept. Whether the government has successfully dealt with the pandemic issue or not is something that one can easily find out through the many polling surveys, which in recent years have seen the light of publicity. One does not need to look at his personal view, to see and see that the Greek Government has managed to deal with the pandemic in Greece in one of the most successful ways compared to most European countries. Are there any problems? Yes, there are problems. There's stiffness. Yeah, there's stiffness. We are dealing with something we do not know, we are dealing with something unprecedented, we are dealing with something that has never happened before, and those who come here with an abundance of saying their own supposedly smart or unique solution, you realize that most of the times are faced with a reality that has another version. Faced with pandemic is not a matter of micropolitical controversy, it is a matter of a serious attitude for all of us. And, of course, if you want to talk about vaccination, obviously the vaccinations should be in a completely different logic for the entire Greek society. If we do not all see that people, friends, relatives, closest people from the coronary have been lost, and we are still sitting here and discussing whether or not to make a vaccine, I think this debate is just in the sphere of Utopia and not in a real approach. Nor do I want to get into a reasonable micropolicy if some SYRIZA executives come in and state publicly that they are against vaccination or others say they take responsibility for the citizens going to the gatherings. It's not our conversation right now. The debate is that we need to face something unprecedented, something that puts human life at great risk, so also the course of any society, Greek or European society, at great risk. That is the reality, and that is where we have to stand. Any other debate is not a responsibility of any political system towards society, which it is supposed to represent. That's the reality, I'm saying it again. Let's go see the issue of the Anti-Fraud Authority. I stressed it at the very first moment, during the debate in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, that this principle is an administrative authority. It is the administrative authority which has a role to play between the Ministry of Finance and, of course, justice. So the administrative authority in Europe, at least on the basis of what is happening, on the basis of the country's obligations, there is no reason for a supreme court to take the lead. On the contrary, he can be a judiciary in honor, he can be a university, he can be any head of this principle. In fact, I will also present to you the specific documents that exist, and I assure you that none of the major bodies that are currently in control of what is happening, whether there is a problem with structural economic or auditing mechanisms, have expressed a different view. Here, therefore, I am proving and tabling the documents in the Minutes, in order to get to know the SYRIZA colleagues in particular, the particular view that exists as to how these principles are managed throughout Europe. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiara, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But do you want me to tell you one more thing? SYRIZA's effort is really very friendly. The mere fact that Mr. Xanthopoulou, as head of the SYRIZA justice sector, was forced to produce a press release to justify why he did not vote for Mr. Vourliotis, while otherwise he was a man of excellent qualifications, proves the acceptance of this person and his integrity and independence and his honesty. And here I would say to you, ladies and gentlemen, let us take the time to run and make a comparison with a previous period, when there may have been greater effectiveness and never again. It is a real pity, I say this and I sincerely am very sorry, that SYRIZA's colleagues' insistence on bringing this matter back, unfortunately, does not do justice to two people, the president and his deputy to this principle, who at least along the path of their personal life in the judiciary were people of ambiguous ethos, were prosecutors who have really handled very important cases and were people who, in their integrity and with their independence, have proved much to date. At some point, then, we need to understand what it is that leaves someone in history and what one thinks one doesn't leave him in history. I am not saying it just to have fun with Mr Ragosi's phrase, who said that I will stay in history for this choice, because I say it, ladies and gentlemen, because you are forcing me to do so. In history, SYRIZA and the time of his administration will remain. Because, from this point of view, Stepma has heard people questioning, reintroducing and saying that the issue of the denial of active bribery has been a subject that has been transferred from the previous legislative committees. Didn't anyone really hit you in the alarm bell? Anyone really? Didn't anyone tell you that what you're doing is irreparably exposing the country? So let's go see what has happened, because you have in some way challenged what I personally said at one of the previous meetings of the committees. It is a fact to vote on new codes, if I remember correctly, at 3-6-2019. SYRIZA and POTAMI in the House. Take a look at the cameras on that day that a minimum number of Members are voting in favour of a new Criminal Code and a new Code of Criminal Procedure, a product of almost ten years of processing three different legislative committees. Yes, the New Democracy took part in this debate earlier. Of course, we had raised our objections and expressed our objections and the 'agreement' between the parties was that any of us might have seen them differently, when there was a debate, we could perhaps direct them where there would be a more general consensus. Where was that consensus?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u189	But that's not possible, Minister. Why do you say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u190	I will not say to you and repeat once again the fact that perhaps a piece of the Law of Friday was incorporated specifically for the pieces of the terms of redundancies in the new Criminal Code. I will not tell you that possible crimes that shock and cause public opinion are treated with a small or low penalty framework. I will not tell you that in this attempt to harmonise the philosophy of the Greek legal system with the European system, it had to make some concessions or perhaps it had to change some things. I'll tell you what's most important. At the same time that you voted for the Criminal Code, you were actually attacking active bribery. Do you know what that means? GRECO and OECD alarm camera. On June 3, 6, you voted for it and on June 7, four days later there is a warning - I will present it to you, Mr Auslonite, and, if you wish, to give it to Mr Ragosi in order to keep it in mind - which says that Greece must definitely see the soundly adopted Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, because active bribery cannot in any way be treated in such a way. A few days later, on 18 June GRECO and OECD tabled a proposal for a plenary with specific reference to Greece. A few days later, at the "NEWSROOM" on 8-7-2021 Greece's extraordinary evaluation decision, because now the transparency and justice in Greece were at stake. Of course I will also symptomaticly read to you the title “Anti - Corruption body GRECO will carry out manager updates of Greece and Slovenia”, to know exactly what has happened. And, of course, on 9 August, the notification of the plenary decision to the OECD representative, who is officially sent to the Ministry of Justice via our embassy and 4 August, is also sent to me, to the Minister of Justice and to the Prime Minister, who is not even too much to show that our country is unfortunately not a European country when he has voted for the totalitarian penalty for active bribery. That's what's left in history to tell Mr. Ragosi. Sadly, Mr. Alonite. I'm so sorry, but that's what it was and they stay in history. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiara, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is how the negative history is unfortunately written. The good fortune was that after the elections we immediately sent a letter and said that in the changes that we will make to the Criminal Code we will make sure that this article is changed and the active bribery to make it a felony. And until we have the assurance and, of course, the organisation of the parliamentary steps that had to be taken, the possible in some way and the very possible extraordinary assessment of the country was at the door. When they saw that Greece really went through this legislation, you realise that the country's position was automatically upgraded and of course treated with a completely different logic. I'm closing up, saying this. It is impressive - the relevant ministers came here and supported their amendments - that the call for the opinion of that authority on personal data. Do you know what ironic is in this case? That the previous government, having had to bring the directive and the regulation on the principle of the protection of personal data by 8 May 2018, for over a year before elections were held not only had it not brought him, but had put the country in a very difficult position: the country would pay a daily fine, pay a one-off sum and be eaten, since it was the last country in Europe that had not implemented this directive on the protection of personal data. It is impressive, however, that now that we also have a regulation and an integrated directive on the protection of personal data, Mr Raguss and any of his chosen colleagues from SYRIZA may come and ask for the opinion of the authority. That's just to know what's going on and where the reality lies. What I would like to say to you is that the ministerial amendments are acceptable only. And of course, I should like to tell you that the amendment of the Ministry of Justice, which has three articles, deals with the contradiction resulting from the setting up of the Standing Committee on Adequacy of the Athens Bar Association, the second article addresses the question of the inability to pay the members of the Central Examination Committees, the Organizing Committees of Appeals and the Groups for the Grading of the Pan-Hellenic Competitions of the First Examination Period 2019 and the Second Examination Period of 2019, and the third article deals with problems related to the participation of judges in working groups for Information and Justice projects and the processing of decrees using information and communication technologies. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying this. There was an appeal again from the Stepma that the current government does not promote digital justice. I can't understand it again. Because the data again comes to speak for themselves. You really don't know what's happened in the last few years? Haven't you ever seen that we've made progress in the area of digital justice with steps that have never been taken before? Haven't you seen that it's already the digital record of the practices of the criminal courts? Don't you know that from September we'll have the electronic suction flow? Don't you know that telephonies are starting? You don't know that we have electronic certificates in the courts and you don't know that we have unified different certificates in order to make it easier for citizens? The large projects relating to IAS 2 and the extension of IAS 2 are also completed. We'll soon have an electronic Digital Criminal Register. And, of course, we hope that justice in Greece will take the path of the digital age as well. And since all this has taken place during this period, no steps have been taken before, yes, the attempt to digitise justice starts in 2008, but if we sit down and see what steps have been taken in the previous period, in relation to the steps taken over these two years, I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that comparison is absolutely catalyst. So, at least when we have the knowledge of a reality, we have to talk about reality and not about what we think, about what we want or what we like or do not like respectively. The reality is that in recent years we have been implementing a truly large programme of reforms in the area of justice, which, yes, have as a reason and reference to changing the codes, the 'prosecutors' of justice. We have already voted for a new Code of Judiciary, we have voted for the new procedure of the Court of Auditors, changes are coming in the next few years to both the Code of Civil Procedure and the Criminal Code. And by the end of the year, we will change the code of the court organization and the judicial officers. Yeah, we're moving on to the digital age. I mentioned earlier how many steps have been taken and how many steps have been taken in the near future. And, of course, all of this is combined with planning the construction of new judges. Seven new courthouses have been approved by the Interministerial Committee, we have already completed the process in order to seek a new courthouse of Piraeus and we have included in the financing of the Recovery Fund the new Court of First Instance of Athens. It is an effort that is multi-level, it is an effort that complements the puzzle pieces in a table that we all have to try to complete, so that justice in Greece is worthy of the expectations of Greek citizens, but also of our own country, a European country that must see the future with optimism and with all the data that exist in all European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u191	Thank you too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of law, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing - Amendment of Law 4557/2018 - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering through criminal law and provisions on speeding up the administration of justice". We are entering the vote on principle, on the articles of the amendments and on the whole, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, eighteen articles, four amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. You need to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u193	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u194	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing — Amendment of Law 4557/2018 — Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on combating money laundering through criminal law accelerated the administration of justice and other urgent provisions was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and total and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u196	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-08-S1-commons.u197	With the consent of the House at 18.31 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 9 July 2021 and 9.00 p.m. on the subject of Parliament's work, Parliament's scrutiny: topical questions.
