ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair trade practices in relations between undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain and other provisions’. Furthermore, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "Following the Protocol on Cooperation between the Greek Fire Service and the Cyprus Fire Service, in accordance with the Agreement of 4 June 2003 between the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation between the Firehouses of the two countries in matters of their competence". Finally, the Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the field of health". I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on today's topical and urgent questions, let me tell the House on Friday, 9 April 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 631/29-32021, by MP Carditsa, New Democracy Mr George Kotsou, to the Minister of the Interior, on ‘Possibility of deletion of rental fees’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 644/4-2021 of the Member of the State of Change Movement, George Kamine, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Complete opacity in the issues of guarding and accompanying vulnerable objectives". 3. The question by number 654/5-2021 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Take care for the students of the 3rd high school of the earthquake in Thessaly through quota for this year's introductory exams at the AEI". 4. The question by No 635/30-32021 of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliou Villiardou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Exclusion of freelance professionals from temporary retirement'. 5. The Question No 640/1-4-2021 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Participatory practices by the Government'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Agreement to the reception of employees of shop - in - a - shop from the special purpose compensation measure'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 657/5-2021 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The inappropriate and violent assault of police officers on students in Larissa." 3. The Question No 653/5-2021 by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The problems of school accommodation in Peristeri". 4. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, of the Change Movement to the Minister of Finance, on ‘Forum for Retrospective 11 Months (June 2015-May 2016)’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 3929/5-2-2021 by MP B1' North Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Mariliza Xinoyannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The ND government does not solve the worker's problem with the cleanliness of public bodies". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that in his letter the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that we have a question today to discuss. So the first question under number 629/29-3-2021 will be discussed in the first cycle of the new Republic of Athens, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, with the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Image of abandonment of OAS facilities - projects by the Ministry of Culture and Sports". The question will be answered by the Secretary of State present, Mr. Augias. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u3	Minister, as a member of the Morphic Affairs Committee - and because you represent the Ministry of Culture - I would like from the Step of the House to condemn unequivocally the insulting institution of the Chief of Staff of the Opposition and an unacceptable statement by Mr Alexis Tsipras, who adopted a monstrous lie and personally offended not only the Minister, Mrs Mendoni, but also the whole of the workers of the Ministry of Culture. I strongly condemn and resent this slip of the Chief of Staff's Response. On the occasion of my timely question is the pandemic, the banning measures that we observe, where, in particular, when trans-democratic movements were allowed, because the centre of Athens does not have many free public spaces - and I live in the centre, but I have often been up for sport and exercise in the huge, vast area of the OAS. You know I'm not a man of sport, but I'm a man and a citizen walking. And while there was this freedom of space, safely for the measures of the pandemic, I was struck by the abandonment, and indeed I wondered how many millions, hundreds of millions, were spent not only on the famous Calatrava, as the people say, but also on other sports Olympic facilities? So I ask: do you have specific plans as the Ministry of Culture and Sport to make full use of them? In addition to making use of purely sporting events, will you be given the opportunity to have free and constructive access to the media which does not participate in sporting events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Undersecretary, here's the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Pipilis, thank you very much for your question concerning the situation at the Olympic Stadium, the OECD. The OECD, indeed, is the flagship of our country's sports infrastructure. The first time I took up my duties I performed an autopsy on all sports facilities in order to have a personal picture and perception, and of course I started from the OAS. I don't hesitate to share with you that I felt sad, shock and frustration with the images I saw. OAS is the largest sports establishment in our country, a thousand hundred and eighty acres, and one of the largest in Europe in urban areas. Ten Federations are hosted today: Basketballing, Swording, Petosphere, Archery, Cycling, Weightlifting, Gymnastic Federation, Deaf Federation, Motor Sports, National Sports Federation with Disabilities. Also, the OAS is hosted by the Offices of the National Organisation of Antidopting, the EECAN, the National Centre for Sports Research, the EAEC, and the Organizing Committee for Motor Sports, Motors of Greece. OAS is a multi-country that harmonises sport and entertainment for the whole family. Visitivity - now hears - touches the daily of fifteen to seventeen thousand people, while at weekends it is between twenty and twenty - two thousand. What did we receive? In the OECD, which had to be a real ornament, there was a picture of abandonment. There were garbage and useless objects everywhere. The signs of deterioration and indifference were evident and, above all, no maintenance work had been done. There were huge maintenance needs. The neglect was obvious. The worst of all is that no one knew the real maintenance needs, they didn't know the extent of the damage, and of course they don't look with the naked eye. Imagine, Mrs. Pipilis, that the OAS facility manuals were not even available, nor the facilities construction manuals or maintenance manuals. Yeah, well, you hear, the maintenance manuals, which should be applied outright, didn't even exist. They were buried somewhere, forgotten in a box in a warehouse somewhere. Of course, no reason for maintenance until today. The last maintenances had just been made in 2004. Honestly and literally we didn't know where to start. Priorities were difficult, since the picture was so bad that all the work on all sports facilities was urgent but also necessary. I want to give you a real picture of the situation that we have been called upon to face. It was at least disappointing. It is an image that is not worth the athletic installation of the family of sport, our society, the birthplace of the Olympic Games, Greece of 2004 and of course it is not worth the sacrifices of the Greeks who paid dearly to be built. This picture, although it gave us more weight to our responsibilities, convinced us and gave us strength to move even faster and to implement our commitments to get in order and to house, but also to do the Olympic Stadium's facilities safe, modern and functional again. We were called upon to deal with years of problems, but they should have been dealt with years ago. What did we do? With this stubborn pressure of time, with very hard work, we have achieved within a short period of time, within just twenty months, to face up to a series of chronic problems, to give back life to sports infrastructures with programming and development. First of all, we have not become rich. We assume our responsibilities and not just those that are to be taken on board, but more I would say. We have taken back the competence of the OAS infrastructure. Mr Vassiliade, in order to avoid his responsibilities, transferred the OAS's powers of maintenance and renovation to the Ministry of Infrastructure. We re-entered. We lifted the sleeves. We have worked hard in close cooperation with the technical services, with the administration and of course with the technical services themselves and with the OAS itself. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] On this occasion, I would like to thank all the employees, the management and management of the Sports Centre. It is certain that in the second part I will be given the opportunity to present everything we have been able to do in about twenty months. However, let me testify with soulful pain to all that we have just faced the OAS, images of abandonment and shame, I would say. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u6	We're seeing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u7	Mrs. Pipili has seen these very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u8	I put it in the Minutes. It is likely that some colleagues, particularly the Opposition, will be interested to say that they too were intent on it, but that the intentions are not enough. The result and image are a thousand words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u9	Mrs. Pipilis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u10	I'm really sad. By the way, since he is the former Mayor of Athens here, Mr. Kaklamanis, I must publicly recall that when the issue of the taking over of the Olympic Games in the Municipality of Athens, which I was a municipal councillor, I was the only one who dared and voted "in the same way", predicting the opposition of the Olympic facilities, because we had nothing to do with the other countries. I also anticipated the financial wound. I find with grief and anger that since 2004 it has been perpetuated in a series of governments, as evidenced. This story, at least, I see that it has entered the government's plan and the Ministry's plan to settle it. There's the economic side. I'm not sport, as I've told you. But I know that the Panathinaikos - I personally hope - will soon get a court. The AEK very soon acquires its dream, its field. Olympiacos has his. What do I mean? Financially, how will the holding be supported? And not only on maintenance issues, which you go well and go ahead, but isn't the cost of such a huge structure, such as the big, central space, under the dome of Calatrava? Is that what you're worried about, Minister? I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mrs. Pipili, we started with the self-evident. I am starting with the fight to remove waste, waste of many years, clearing up materials that have been in warehouses and underground, and of course the custody of the environment. We developed synergies with the Attica Region and the surrounding municipalities, co-organisations with dozens of unions and institutions, conferences, conferences. We clearly gave the athletes, the users of the center and their needs. We are building systematic cooperation with organisations of culture and education with extrovert actions. For example: Greek Mediterranean University, University of Peloponnese, Olympic Museum of Athens, Association of Paralympics, Institute of Agronomic Sciences, Metropolitan College, National Center for Physics Research Diocritos. With all these we have already entered into cooperation and are working on specific projects. At the same time, we started maintenance projects that we have already carried out a series of maintenance and rehabilitation work in almost all OAS facilities. They include upgrading to machinery spaces, upgrading of racing lighting in all facilities, water quality controls, replacement of central water supply, roofing of closed installations, maintenance work in locker rooms, sanitary areas and public spaces. The surrounding area has changed completely picture and action has been taken to reduce the centre's energy footprint, security in securiti services and new fences, the creation of electric car charging, replacement of light bulbs with new LED technology, planting new trees and green spaces, recycling of devices. Also, dear Mrs. Pipilis, pre-study studies were completed for the need to maintain all OAS facilities, a pre-study of maintenance of architectural structures of Kalatrava requiring special treatment and maintenance, a pre-study for maintenance of construction and electromechanical installations. At the same time, we are working on upgrading and utilizing the OAS. I would remind you that we have already signed a contract with LAMDA DEVELOPMENT for the overall upgrading at their own expense of the Olympic Liquid Centre, which includes the financing and execution of the necessary technical studies, construction work, electromechanical work, everything, for the renovation and reconstruction. First, construction of a new pool of dimensions 20x25 in depth of two meters, reconstruction of a learning pool of HEME - it was abandoned, it did not work - and installation of a special ramp, replacement of coaching and racing lighting, renovation of swimming pool spaces and open spaces and closed spaces. In other words, we are actually creating a package of wet tracks which will be one of the largest in Europe. Secondly, we have made use of the sixteen tennis fields of the Reconciliation Centre. The open tender was completed and the facilities were leased. The company ‘STADIO 2020 S.A.’ undertook to rebuild the tennis courts, the auxiliary premises. Significant upgrading work has been done, but they are still going on. At the same time, use is already yielding, since there is a positive sign. At this point, I would like to say that before the rental of tennis facilities we had a cost of EUR 50,000 to EUR 100,000 every year, and after the lease we have a profit of about EUR 200,000, while on a daily basis we visit the tennis facilities of about nine hundred people. In other words, this is the first use of Olympic sports facilities, for sporting purposes always, and of course the corresponding installation in Liosia, which was leased to the AEK, follows. Thirdly, the OECD Programme Convention with the Attica Region has already been signed for maintenance work, as well as for the development of cultural actions, such as the development of the 'Adriarios Aqueduct'. Also, the Attica Region has undertaken the financing of swimming pool, coaching and closed sports gymnastics, replacement of the tartan, replacement of external fence, and a contract has already been signed with the Hellenic Mediterranean University of Crete for the overall holistic energy upgrade study of sports facilities, with the aim of exploiting energy and reducing the environmental footprint. Fifth, a memorandum of cooperation has been signed with EYDAP to create a water and culture park in the OAS area, inextricably linked to the use of the "Adriarios Aqueduct". For the last time I kept the best. By the end of the month, the masterplan will be presented for the full modernisation and development of the OAS's facilities, which includes an integrated programme for integration into the Recovery Fund, which of course includes the complete maintenance, among other things, of the architectural structures Kalatrava. Keep in mind that for seventeen years there has been no single screw or one employee in the Calatrava plant. We received a sports centre that had been abandoned, savaged, devalued, and turned it into a step – a step with a lot of methodicity and especially with great faith in our vision and our dream of the modern OAS in a modern sports center, in a modern multi-sport, recreational, culture, information and education. Our aim is for OASA to become a hive for the development of sport, a real ornament, as it deserves, a place that, apart from sport, will offer its services to culture and become a tourist destination as part of the modern history of the Olympic Games. We are going to do this, Mrs Pipilis, because we are determined to do a coordinated job. And for all this, there is the concern and real interest of the Prime Minister himself, who along with all the rest that he manages is really concerned about what is called the Athens Olympic Stadium. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Ausgeakis. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Development and Investment, Finance, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Ministers, Citizens' Protection and Culture and Sports, tabled a draft law on 5 April 2021: ‘Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities of Ministries of Development, Labour and Social Affairs, Maritime and Migration Policy, Infrastructure and Transport, Regulations on the transfer to the Industrial Property Organisation of Trademarks and other provisions for the strengthening of development’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We will shortly be entering the agenda for legislative work. The time is 10.05. I would ask that the Secretariats of the Parliamentary Groups inform those of the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives are not here to come in a timely manner so that we can begin. I repeat, we will take a 10-minute break to get the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 1 April 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving one speaker from each parliamentary group, as well as a 12-member circle of speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, from the JRC, from the Greek Solution and from Mera25. With Webex teleconference service, webex platform, a second 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed, with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u15	The House agreed. We are starting with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, may I have the floor for a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u17	Just a minute, Mr. Vasiliadis. Mr. Arachovite, what issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, thank you. I would like to ask the Minister if it is in the course of the debate that there should be some other amendments to the bill. From what we have been discussing in committee, you have the intention of making some improvements. We would like to have them in good time to study and arrange how we will be placed on the articles. We would therefore ask you, if you intend to bring improvements, to come as soon as possible, so that we can prepare ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u19	Two amendments have been tabled. You know them in time. I do not think the Minister should table other amendments of his own. Now, as far as legislative improvements are concerned, the sooner you prepare them - Mr Arachovitis is right - so that speakers will have them in mind. Mr. Vassiliade, here, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we from regional units in which the primary sector has a dominant role in the local economy, are well aware of the complex problems arising and the particular dynamics developed between all the links in the supply chain. To reach a fruit or vegetable from the farm in the fork, as described in the committee's meetings, a complex sequence of trade has preceded, while at the same time the pressure of time resulting from the inevitable alteration of the fresh product. We also know well that the extroversion of Greek companies operating in the primary sector is a one-way path for their long-term survival. Finally, we know well that the most important market in which extroverty can be directed is the European Union's single market. These conditions which I mentioned many times leave producers and small businesses exposed to traders and distributors, who often exploit their size and location on the European market, by resorting to unfair commercial practices, such as delaying payments or transferring costs and risks. The draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food under discussion, which I have the honour to propose, is entitled ‘Integration of Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain and other provisions’. It is divided into two parts. The first part incorporates European Directive 2019/633 and relates to unfair trade practices between the links in the chain that I have mentioned. I would like to mention that the directive was passed by a large majority in the Eurogroups. The European Commission has already recognised the imbalances in the negotiating power between suppliers and purchasers of agricultural products and food since 2013 in the Green Paper on unfair trade practices in the supply chain. Some of the Committee's reports have been followed, stressing that: Firstly, these unfair practices may have a significant impact on the functioning of the market, increase the cost of finished products and, at the same time, reduce the profits of the weak side. Secondly, the supply chain of agricultural products is particularly vulnerable to these practices. Thirdly, it is necessary to adopt a single regulatory framework at European level with an emphasis on its effective implementation. At the same time, 20 Member States had adopted different national legislations. Our country has so far no specific protection framework, except some diffuse provisions in various laws and an article in a 1914 law. The directive has four objectives: to set a protective framework for producers, associations and cooperatives, processors and smaller traders by negotiating stronger traders, to clearly recognise and prohibit 16 unfair practices, to lay the framework for cooperation and coordination between the Member States' authorities in dealing with these cases and to introduce a minimum single European framework which the Member States, of course, can extend. Here I would like to stress the need, but also the value, of establishing a single framework, the same in all the Member States. A European approach to the problem is essential when we live and act within the common market. As far as our Greek businesses are concerned, this protection net will enable producers, processors and traders to dare make their businesses more extremist. The directive follows a partial and not horizontal logic as to whom it protects from whom to ensure that the relatively weak one is protected. I should like to stress here that the provisions of Part One do not relate to consumer transactions. The six resulting categories start from companies with a turnover of EUR 2 million and reach more than EUR 350 million. This protection is initially intended to cover ten unfair practices which are expressly prohibited and under all conditions. These black practices, as described in the debate in the European Parliament, include the delay of payments of thirty days for deformable foods and sixty for the rest, the cancellation of orders without prior notice, the unilateral modification of terms of the agreement, the requirement of payments that are not related to the transaction, the payment requirement for alteration or destruction of products, the threat of trade retaliation, the requirement of compensation for complaints and, finally, the seller's commitment to the quantity without simultaneously binding the price. In addition, six more gray malpractices are banned, unless there is an explicit agreement between both sides. These concern the return of undisposed products and the requirement to pay for advertising or promotion of products. With regard to the monitoring and implementation of these rules, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is continuing to establish a specialised Committee for the Combating Unfair Commercial Practices, jointly with the Competition Committee, which will be responsible for the enforcement of prohibitions. The mechanism of complaints and sanctions and the procedure for interim measures shall be established. The incorporation of the Directive is closed with the framework for cooperation and mutual assistance between the competent authorities of the Member States. Going to the second part of the draft law, we have three more articles regulating the operation of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Article 18 lays down, by decision of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, the conditions, conditions and procedure for the electronic tendering procedure for the use of real estate managed by the Ministry. The process is currently provided for by Law 4061/2012 and concerns the adoption of a Presidential Decree, which was introduced by the Ministers for Rural Development, Food and Development and Investment. This is a timely process, and the feasibility of the participation of the Ministry of Development and Investment in the recommendation of this regulatory act is not sufficiently substantiated. In addition, paragraph 2 changes the restriction for each member of the three-member Committee on Earth and Dispute Resolution: to take part in it only once every two years, instead of four that are currently the provision. In line with paragraph 3, the restriction for each member of the three-member Committee on Control and Jurisdiction shall be changed: to take part in it only once every two years, instead of four that are currently in force. Article 19 allows farmers, in view of the exceptional circumstances in the country's agricultural production and economic life, to conclude and renew contracts for loans, credits and financing from credit institutions and other financial institutions up to EUR 25 000 without proof of insurance information provided for by Law 4611/2019. As we have seen, this is a provision which already applies in an emergency because of the consequences of the pandemic in the country. It has proved to be an effective measure and widely accepted by the rural world. Finally, Article 20 allows the implementation of sub-measure 2.1 entitled ‘Using of advisory services in the agricultural sector’ of the Agricultural Development Programme of Greece 2014-2020 with the option of selecting agricultural consultants by means of an open call for applications to public and private bodies. Provision is made for a Ministerial Decision implementing the measure and establishing the management, monitoring, payment and control system for sub-measure 2.1 of the Rural Development Programme. On this point, Mr President, I would like to refer to the relevant meetings of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, which, let me say, were exemplary in terms of the level of dialogue, which honors all colleagues and something that our country and our society really needs at this difficult time. The interventions of the representatives of the invited bodies have also proved particularly useful. By trying to introduce them into two major categories, I could say that their concerns were firstly related to the extension of the law to include a greater number of protected businesses - many colleagues from the Opposition, but also we, of course, expressed the view that perhaps the law should also protect smaller enterprises, starting with a turnover of EUR 1 million - and, secondly, the implementation procedures, the new bureaucracy that will also create the control mechanisms. In particular, the attitude of aggregation of the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food has been demonstrated, which has been duly respected by Parliament with a view to making productive exchanges of views available. Already, as expressed by the Minister in his positions, some useful suggestions by colleagues and bodies are planned to be incorporated into the ministerial decisions and the circulars that will follow. Before I close, Mr President, I would like to put to the amendment the general number of 832 and a special number of 30, and in particular the provisions concerning the extension of the period for the use of agricultural land and the extension of time limits for the general assembly and term of office of the organs of agricultural cooperatives. Both provisions greatly facilitate the operation of the primary sector, which has been severely affected, directly and indirectly, by the consequences of pandemic. I'm glad the Ministry heard the rural world and gives solutions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I think that most of us agree on the usefulness of voting on this draft law. It is clear both the essential need to protect vulnerable links in the logistics chain and the formal need to transpose Directive 633/2019 into national law, for which it is clearly foreseen that it should be completed by 1 November 2021. I therefore call on all colleagues from the whole House to vote in favour of the draft law under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u21	The rapporteur from SYRIZA now has the floor, Mrs Panagiou (Giota) Poulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food incorporating Directive 219/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April on the treatment of unfair trade practices in the agri-food chain comes for a vote in the context of a situation which is extremely critical for the country. Although it spent a year of pandemic and five months of strict but fruitless quarantine, the indicators of the double health and economic crisis remain stubborn in deep red shade. The equation with two strangers called upon the government to resolve, namely, the simultaneous achievement of the dual objective of protecting public health and supporting the economy and society has proved extremely difficult and has resulted in a riddle that goes beyond the abilities of the neoliberal apprentices of the government, those who think that the magic wand of privatisation, the extinguishing of public property, direct awards, the reduction of rights, can solve the problems of society, those who think they have hidden the absence of a plan, supposedly, moderate logic of seeing and doing. Nearly all the social groups, farmers, employees, free trade workers, workers in the retail trade, focus, culture, with a deep sense of social responsibility and solidarity, have earnestly accepted the restriction or interruption of their economic activity in order to protect public health. And what do they see now? That their sacrifices were lost, precisely because the government did not want to support their income and jobs, nor to invest in public infrastructure, the National Health System, public transport, school units, public investment that would allow society to stand up until the storm is cut. Now the government is facing the deadlock that it has created, faced with a lack of credibility and confidence that is increasing unreservedly and throwing the blame back on it again with courage. With self-tests, it restores the alibi of individual responsibility so that it opens up as - like the market, although scientific bodies have repeatedly expressed their objections. And he stubbornly refuses targeted tests, the prescribing of molecular tests and the supply of antiviral drugs. The market opens up without any real care to protect the health of its citizens, and so it experiments to open up schools, just as it closed them. This is his policy of seeing and doing and no longer believes that this government can lead the country out of the crisis. However, I do not want to refer to another grim news, in the Furthite case, for which the government urgently has to explain to the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, this difficult reality does not, unfortunately, exclude the rural world. The problems that have accumulated for farmers in the pandemic are many and bear witness to the impasse of the agricultural policy of the government. Inefficiency, opacity and deliberate depreciation of public structures, while private interests await the slogan for the large sell-out through PPP in all public sectors, health, education, transport, energy, environment, strategic sectors of industry and, of course, rural production. First of all, if you are satisfied, Mr Ministers, with the despair and disorganization that has been taking place in the last few years in those institutions that now serve decades and support farmers, and I am certainly referring to ELGA and OPEKEPE. As far as ELGA is concerned, we are anxious to see the body demarcated from qualified personnel. In the year, dozens of workers will leave because of retirement and mobility. The lack of qualified and experienced evaluators will soon be seen as the need is growing constantly, due to the frequency of the extreme weather events of climate change. There are many complaints about delays in autopsy, assessments and compensation. Farmers from Thebes called me the other day, Minister, saying that they are waiting to become self-conscious about their damaged cereals. Evidently your government policy wants to lead ELGA to devastate, in order to justify the assignment of its powers to individuals. Unfortunately, we also see the OPECE, with the resignation of the President and the struggle for the aid to be paid. The government once again chooses not to strengthen the organization with the necessary infrastructure and human resources. This means that there will be problems and delays in the payment of aid, which farmers so much need, especially in the suffocating conditions of the pandemic. A similar policy of delays and exclusions is implemented by the government and in the improvement plans that could give breath and perspective to thousands of farmers. Refugee, Mr Ministers, to incorporate the participants of the improvement plans that meet all the criteria of the invitation - as well as the resources that can be made available within the year - now that the needs are so pressing. Instead, you're planning a new notice next year. "Keep on, May, to eat a clover," says the people. It is incomprehensible in the difficult conditions of the pandemic, farmers who wish to invest in their place to face additional obstacles. However, many more and various problems have been solved by farmers during the pandemic period and we have raised them through our parliamentary control. Winegrowers, olive growers, cotton growers, potato producers, farmers and others have not found a solution to their problems from your policy. Finally, the producers of populace products with your relative refluxes have also been inconvenienced for the measures prohibiting the movement from one regional unit to another and for other measures, which continue to be affected by the Ministry of Development's bill on the people's markets. They have even announced today a totalitarian strike, reacting to a change in the structure of the people's markets and to new privatisation scenarios. The Government does not want independent and capable producers to have their products directly and without intermediating to the consumer. It does not want to modernise the people's market foundation so that producers can ensure decent income and consumers are cheap and fresh products. It also selects private companies and PPPs here. This is your vision of our country's agro-food chain, selling out to private interests, and emphasizing managers and intermediaries. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's choice not to help farmers is not just exhausted today. It seems that it also has implications in the future, and that is also the result of its plans for the use of the recovery fund. The priority remains to serve the great private interests, while the objective of productive reconstruction is ignored. Unfortunately, the government, while remaining in the logic of the past, proposes for the resources of the Recovery Fund actions with the sole criterion of absorption speed rather than long-term needs. Of course, she believes in her disastrous neoliberal positions she does not fail to turn the crisis into an opportunity for various continents, again proposing the PPPs as a supposedly innovative model for the management of irrigation networks. Let us remember that the privatisation of the external network of the ECHR also promotes the sale of water goods in the same framework as the privatization of the external network. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance disagrees with this approach. We believe that the resources of the Recovery Fund need to be used to achieve the major strategic objective of the radical transformation of the model of domestic primary production. It is imperative that we finally leave behind the model of intensive mass production, which is located in specific areas and crops and is based on subsidies, because it is characterised by low prices and is exposed to strong international competition. We must move towards the model of the production of quality products and the identity of geographical indications and organic agriculture, safety and certification. The non-productive way of distributing European resources over the past decades has been one of the reasons for encroaching on Greek agriculture on subsidies and low productivity. The mistakes of the past must be learned. We do not have the margin for another missed opportunity. We believe that the resources of the Recovery Fund should be directed primarily to projects of a strategic nature that will put agricultural production on a long-term path of development. It's worth seeing who these are. First of all, the protection of water resources, which we regard as a social asset, with rational management, counter-flood protection and modernisation of irrigation networks. Secondly, rural electricity, with emphasis on renewable sources, but also with the protection of productive land. Thirdly, active protection of crops and their restructuring for adaptation to climate change. Fourthly, to strengthen and modernise processing by means of specialized product promotion programmes. And fifthly, investment in research and innovation and education and, of course, in the education and training of farmers, but also with emphasis on attracting young people to the agricultural sector. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context of the overall examination of the agricultural policy of the Government, we must also include this draft law incorporating the directive on the protection of producers from unfair commercial practices. A bill that, as documented in support of the committee's meetings, moves in the right direction, but at the same time is characterised by many and important weaknesses that undermine its effectiveness. And these are: Its limited scope, i.e. the limited category of buyers to which it is addressed, and I refer to Article 1. The 'window' bypassing the prohibition of opaque clauses, which leaves it correctly in Article 4. The doubtful ability to implement its provisions effectively by the Committee for the Combating Unfair Commercial Practices referred to in Article 5. Finally, its non-existent interconnection with existing legislation, i.e. with Law 4492/2017 and its provocative refusal to exploit it. Ladies and gentlemen, the price of the government's relentless policy is to lose the golden opportunity offered by the directive to tackle the disastrous practice of unfair practices and opaque clauses which, unfortunately, are widely observed in our country. However, because the bill contains provisions that seek to protect producers against these practices, we vote positive at first and we expect to see what you are doing in Articles 1, 4 and 5, so that we can place ourselves in the vote. Finally, we have no objection to the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u23	The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Apostolos Panas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u24	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are now seeing the great turmoil caused by the forthcoming bill on the people's markets, as it seems that it affects the trader, the small producer of the people's markets and the economically weak citizens. We are also observing the intense protests by farmers on forest maps, as they are at risk of losing their lands, which are hard to cultivate for the purpose of biopolitics. In this climate, this bill comes at a particular time for the primary sector and I am referring not only to the consequences of the COVID pandemic, but also to the gradual deterioration of this sector. That is why, before I go forward with my speech on today's bill, I ask the relevant ministers and of course you, Mr Levane, to take seriously this turmoil and the situation in the rural world, in a rural world which is at the moment at a difficult economic juncture. I am, however, returning to today's issue regarding the incorporation of Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament in relation to unfair trade practices, a demand that we have imposed and timely, as it sets out the defence lines of producers, so as to stop exploitation as they result from unfair trade practices. Undoubtedly, one of the most important issues of concern to the primary sector is the existence of unfair trade practices, which squeeze the prices of our Greek producers' products at a suffocating level. If we look at the consequences of the coronary pandemic on farmers, farmers and fishermen, then the situation is getting worse and worse. But the anxieties of the rural world do not stop here. The insecurity resulting from the instability presented by OPEKEPE, the absence of a safety grid against Greekizations, the choice of only certain agricultural products for financial aid due to the pandemic creates a difficult atmosphere for producers. I will insist here on the cultivation of Halkidiki olives, where last year there were serious mobilisations in my prefecture on the issue of price and yet its support has never been approved, which regrets us very much. And it was a commitment from this Step to my timely question from the previous Minister for Rural Development. As a movement of change, we have already tabled a series of parliamentary interventions from the first wave of the pandemic, with a view to strengthening and protecting all the agricultural sectors affected, but our proposals have not been adopted in full. However, we hope that the package that we tabled in Parliament in the context of the new CAP will be accepted, because we do not stop claiming and want proper support in the agri-food sector. Although this bill is moving in the right direction, it remains "hot" agricultural issues remain unanswered, such as, for example, when the infamous restructuring of the ELGA regulation will take place to assimilate the effects of climate change on rural areas, as well as how the innovation and substantial promotion of the role of the primary sector in the economy will take place. We therefore expect the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development to implement the programme which has announced and made progress in areas which will give real impetus to the primary sector of the country, that sector of the economy, which, admittedly, is a way out of the crisis and the foundation of a new productive model of development. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, returning to the bill, unfair practices have a significant impact on the functioning of the agricultural market, as they increase the cost of final products, which is about the whole of society. It is already known that the procedure for the disposal of agricultural products and foodstuffs by the producer to the consumer is distinguished from multiple stages, which are intervened until they reach the final recipient, by forming the increased final price of the product. Indeed, uncertain and unstable factor in the smooth production process of agricultural products are the unforeseen weather conditions, which most often assimilate negative results. At the same time, the vulnerable nature of agricultural products and foodstuffs, as well as their seasonality, lead to the urgent need to protect against unfair practices. Therefore, this bill is of key importance to the agri-food sector, as it enables the primary sector to continue to produce and be sustainable. I would mention the Regional Unit again in Halkidiki, where the primary sector is dominated by the region's economy and we have received unfair practices both in the production of table olives and other crops, such as table grapes, apricots and wheat cultivation. In this context and given the need to regulate the market in agricultural products, we need to have the specific transposition of the European directive. Although our country has taken a long time to adopt this directive, even though other European countries have made similar legislation to protect producers from unfair trade practices in wholesalers and retailers, the design at last to deal with the above-mentioned problem situations, where the Member States have to establish a minimum Union standard for protection against these practices, is in its final phase. The justification for free competition, leaving primary production unprotected, is over. The time has come to protect the producer-supplier from the imbalances created in his relationship with the buyers of his products, as the imbalance of power between the parties often creates situations that distort the free market. After all, the free market, and I think we all agree on it, must be governed by rules under the principle of justice. Minister, we all know that the Greek Government has until 1 May 2021 to incorporate this Community directive into its national legislation, and we did not want, under this time pressure, to create a bill of ambiguity and misinterpretation. That is why we called, as a Change Movement, for an integrated draft law, without any fragmentary provisions, with the aim not only of suppressing the problem but also of preventing unfair practices. After hearing the interested and involved bodies, it has become clear that the rural world has been indignant for years by the unfair practices of which it is being received and which calls for the state's effective support. Therefore, the plan to combat this phenomenon is really moving in the right direction and, of course, we have also said so by the committees, we are in agreement. However, this draft law, as I have said, also needs some additional corrections to achieve its purpose, namely to protect producers by introducing national rules. In general, the new rules governing this bill which will apply to retailers, food processors, wholesalers, cooperatives, producer organisations, as well as individual producers, dictate the following unfair trade practices: late payments for vulnerable food products, cancellations of orders at the last minute, unilateral or retrospective changes in contracts, forcing the supplier to pay for damaged products and for refusing to conclude written contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of our satisfaction with this bill, the clarification of the conditions governing trade articles, relating to suppliers of agricultural products and purchasers' relations and focusing on trade operations involving large supply chains, must be further clarified. I will insist, as in committee, on Article 1, where it refers to the annual turnover of the supplier company, but without further explaining whether this turnover relates to all the revenue arising from its worldwide economic activity, including its subsidiaries, nor, however, to what is an annual turnover. On the basis of these two points, we have already pointed out in the first article the need to create a register of suppliers, which will be subject to the Ministry of Rural Development and to which suppliers of products that coincide with this Act will be obliged to declare their worldwide consolidated turnover per year for the last financial years. In particular, I note that the creation of the relevant supplier register could be a useful tool for controlling any circumvention in order to protect those actually pursued by the law, namely to protect suppliers. It cannot be done by buyers and should not be repeated in public. Furthermore, according to the spirit of the European directive on the protection of economically weaker suppliers and taking into account the Greek economic sizes of the market, we realise that almost all suppliers based in our territory fall under this directive. This means that all transactions will be affected, while the changes brought about by the transposition of the directive will lead to radical changes in the pattern of trade. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently being given the opportunity to legislate in order to put a brake on unfair trade practices that adversely affect producers in trade with the commercial sector. However, this legislation must be a useful tool for protecting even the smaller farms, guaranteeing their right to decent living, but without further bureaucratic difficulties. In the discussion on the articles, I explained the reasons why the day-to-day liquidation is practically impossible and how it should be corrected in order to facilitate the parties involved. At the same time, I said that Article 3 does not clearly state what will be done with the various debt instruments relating to the maintenance of written agreements between producer and trader for a post-dated payment. We also need to be clear in this report. Will the delivery by the buyer be considered to be repayment to the supplier of a post-dated check on which the entire purchase is based, even if more than thirty days, if this time limit is given to him? At the time, then, when the health and economic crisis occurs at the same time, it is time for initiatives to be taken. That is why we are also concerned about issues such as the absence of Article 7 of the directive, which recommends alternative dispute resolution, and we are only left to Article 5, which is defined by the principle of the enforcement of the Competition Committee by the Ministry of Rural Development. Intermediation - we have said it before - is a corrected out-of-court resolution procedure for us and is a useful tool for communication and normalisation of any differences between the two parties. We also believe that this procedure enables us, at last, to take this directive seriously. But today, I won't just stay on it. I shall say this: we have the opportunity to prove that we stand alongside producers and claim with them what they deserve, legally shielding the area of primary agricultural products. In order to make sense, then, the adoption of integration must also be followed by a strong desire to implement both the government today and the relevant institutions of the state tomorrow. This transition cannot take place from one day to the next. That is why we call for a date of application of the law not to be earlier than ninety days after publication in the Official Journal of the Government. These changes have been pointed out and we have now pointed them out in the committee. To conclude, I would like to stress that two years have passed, two years have passed, bills coming to Parliament, being passed and not being implemented. I hope that the same practice will not be repeated here, as this legislation is a useful tool for protection even for smaller farms, guaranteeing their right to decent living. That is why we will be here to monitor, propose wherever necessary and above all, to stress that the direct transformation of the agricultural sector is now necessary so that it becomes more efficient and more effective. I have already said to the committee that we are voting 'yes' in principle and 'yes' on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u25	The Minister has informed me that once it's over and the rest of the three speakers will take the floor, so he will say what Mr Arachovitis has said about what improvements, etc. The representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. Mr President, you will allow me to make a reference to today's global health day - and I would like a time-to-time tolerance - because it really has a tragic time-consuming effect on pandemic conditions. On the occasion of this day, the JRC sends a warm welcome to the health workers, who give their knowledge and work to defend the health and life of the people. We want, at the same time, to express our support for the families of our fellow people who have lost their lives from the pandemic and those who still give this battle today. The contribution of doctors, nurses and other health workers is of far greater value, because they are carried out in conditions of enormous shortages of staff, equipment and infrastructure, with inadequate measures to prevent and promote public health. Greater value for this was their voice under the masks, which she raised and proclaimed solutions for the benefit of patients and the people. If there were no health and other workers' struggles, the government would not have been forced to take either these minimal and inadequate measures it took today, because the intangible public health system and health protocols - elastic, depending on the interests of business activity, are precisely a child of the sovereignty of the market laws, the cost-benefit criterion and cuts in public health units. This policy is based on the fact that the people have remained and remain exposed to the dispersion of the coronary despite the successive lockdowns, as well as on the fact that the patients did not have sufficient time and time for what they need in infrastructure, equipment and health staff to better give the battle to protect their health and life. The JRC is therefore aimed at health workers, all workers, professionals, farmers and young people, in calling for even more massive organisation of the struggle for measures to support public hospitals in primary health care, for the appointment of the private health sector without compensation and for its integration into a single state planning which will enable everyone to be cared for and, of course, prevent all necessary protection measures from being taken against the transmission of pandemic in particular to workplaces, for epidemiological surveillance with frequent and reliable tests with the responsibility of trained health and, of course, against the logic of self-diagnosis that the government is currently promoting, in order to ensure all forms of treatment and medicine, safe and effective vaccines for the massive and timely vaccination of the whole people, because the life and health of the people cannot wait and is not subject to any form of morbidity. In relation to the bill: Government - and of course they advocate other parties' positions - is trying to present the incorporation of the European directive on unfair trade practices in the agricultural supply chain as, as a matter of urgency, a saving board for farmers, producers, which are committed to the extortion of large businesses that absorb their production, that it is intended - far more that it can - protect the economically weaker and with reduced negotiating power, which is why they are particularly vulnerable to such unfair trade practices and less, of course, able to deal with them. But is that really so? From the first lines of the bill, this government's claim is being abolished, even for those who can - unfounded, of course, in our view - maintain any such expectations. Can the directive recognise and interfere with existing problems, for which wholesalers, industrialists, such as long delays in the payments of supermarkets and known phenomena, are, of course, protesting other practices used mainly by these chains, supermarkets, in order to increase their profitability, such as fees charged for a good shelf, order cancellations, unilateral changes to contract terms and many more - but how many, really, bio-medical small and medium-sized farmers, but also a little larger than those, are concerned when the scope of the directive starts from the outset excludes trade with buyers who have less than EUR 2 million per year? The size of the impunity is derived from the information provided and the bodies involved in the discussion. The representative of the agricultural cooperatives himself pointed out that more than 52% of cooperatives - that is, farmers are mainly selling - have an annual turnover of less than EUR 500,000. So even cooperative organisations are excluded from the commitments of the directive. However, the majority of food traders in Greece - 80% have determined this - have a turnover below EUR 2 million. So who ultimately protects the bill, when it is known that various intermediaries operate as business satellites, collect production from farmers and deliver it to monopolies? You have therefore provided in the bill that there is a commitment to the purchase price of products from the moment - you say - that a buyer has concluded an agreement with a supplier. This is, in fact, a provision that seeks to deal with the gangrene - as the Deputy Minister of State - of 'open' prices in agricultural products has said. However, even this minimum measure, which has a thousand ways to go beyond it in practice, and it is certain that it will remain on paper, the representatives of the supermarkets consider it to be an obstacle to their competition and to your fingers, because you are bringing it beyond the provisions of the directive. But what supermarket buys directly from the farmer, much more than bio-proliferative small and medium-sized farmers? But as far as processing is concerned, what guarantee arises for the farmer at a time when milk-industrials, in many cases, are using intermediaries to obtain low-priced raw material? Will a farmer be found to report the extortion practices, unfair practices and 'open' prices, when he knows that he will have a problem with the disposal of his production if he does not give up on these big business wants? And, of course, beyond the possibility of complaints, how, really, do you claim that this own-initiative audit provided for in the bill will be carried out? From the subordinated services of the Ministry of Rural Development, which have been recruited for over ten years, and hundreds of employees have left? That is why we say that even this 'open' price provision is a mockery and is not going to change the situation to the benefit of bio-populist farmers. Even the bodies made a number of suggestions to make sampling checks. You didn't take that into account either. However, there is also a difference in the pattern of smuggling. Perhaps this too is the whole essence of the bill and of the European directive itself. You are practicing the imposition of written contracts as, allegedly, the insurance policy which ensures the farmer. But this, in the end, is nothing but a tool to tie hand in the chariot of the big merchant or large industrialist. This is demonstrated by Articles 3 and 4, which provide that the written agreements may include even the legalisation of the so-called ‘unfair clauses and practices’, namely those which are supposed to be reversed by the bill. In other words, the extortion that farmers accept and leads them to subject to unfair clauses only becomes legal cloaks from the fact that it was provided for in a written agreement. Is there, in fact, a greater routing, Minister, of the pressures exerted on the economically weaker and clearly disadvantaged agricultural producers when, for example, payment dates are provided for in Article 3, on the basis of written agreements and, more than thirty or sixty days after delivery, respectively, for deformable and undeclared foods? In other words, a producer may remain unpaid even months after the delivery of his products if he has been forced by the processor or trader to sign such a contract. But is it true, in the same position as the big traders, that, on the basis of the freedom of contracts, the farmer could agree to such practices? Of course, we don't have to meet that first time. We also met it in SYRIZA's regulations, which made the producer, in fact, jointly responsible, by providing, in fact, a fine if he hadn't posted the invoices, a law, of course, which, despite the shames of the government at the time, was never implemented. So the directive is in the same way trying to deal with the trade between two business groups with huge, tens and hundreds of millions of euros, with the trade between such a business as a supermarket, a dairy industry and a bio-producer on the other hand or a small supplier. But is the same thing the relationship between two wolves and the relationship between the wolf and the sheep? The large company, the commercial and manufacturing monopoly holds the producer hand in hand in various ways, such as the blackmailing that its production will remain indisposed, that cheap raw materials will be purchased from abroad, that demand for different certifications and specifications in the context of so-called quality control and many other methods known to all. The same does not apply to the relationship between farmers and the great exporters, those who literally serve your common vision of extrovert. It is infinitely the examples of the methods they use to get their beer production rather than even without paying invoking various events every time, as happened this year with the mandarins, the Kalamas olives and so many other products. It is no coincidence that, in the agricultural movement itself, these issues of the absorption of production by industries and traders at degrading prices are repeated, while they are expensively selling the means and equipment to which there is no protection whatsoever. That is why the objective of minimum guaranteed prices for agricultural products which meet the cost of production is constantly being subordinated, while ensuring a survival income for producers for direct delivery, for cheap products for people's needs against speculation by commercial industrialists. These demands were repeated this year in Killer’s celebration of the Federation of Agricultural Associations of Lesvos and other actors of the rural movement. Of course, it is not just the issue of late payments, but also the even more crucial issue of these degrading prices for which today's bill provides nothing, because, as you all claim, the market solves this, that is, the monopolies that blackmail and strangle small and medium-sized farmers, while at the same time they are sceptical about people's consumption of food. In fact, both you, Minister, and your predecessor, have made the latest fashion to call on farmers to sell their produce as much as you claim to be the price reduction and to intervene with income support in the management of the effects of the pandemic and aid measures. Your contribution to the success of extortion of large industrial and supermarkets is admittedly remarkable! SYRIZA has certainly done the same in several other ways as a government. Whenever the demand for guaranteed prices was made to ensure the survival of the farmer and affordable prices for popular consumption, he replied that this is incompatible with the common agricultural policy, which, of course, all of you are advertised as a one-way street for bio-popular farmers. That is why you are all plundering with the demand for guaranteed prices for farmers. But is there really no corresponding obstacle when you provide assured prices and profits to business groups on the basis of European Union regulations? Is it not such a guaranteed price that toll rates, the price of kilowattage to farmers in renewable energy sources, prices to mobile and fixed telephone networks and others? Of course, the time has come to add to that. The example of the vaccines for COVID is characteristic. The states have paid billions to ensure this guaranteed profitability of the pharmaceutical companies, who today cynically blackmail and sacrifice human lives on the altar of their competitions. There you see there is no incompatibility, there is neither a coma for European policy nor for the rules of the capitalist market itself. It is therefore demonstrated once again that the needs of the bio-family farmers do not fit in with the decisions of the governments and the European Union. They don't fit in the very capitalist way of production. The solution to the inequality and barbarism of the capitalist exploitation method of production and in this area is in the same area state trade in the socialist economy, i.e. a centralized scientific design for socialised and cooperative production at a state price for the concentration of each product by the state and distribution through state trade in the socialist society at affordable prices and, of course, guaranteed income for all. With such an organization there will be no extortion, no exploitation, no 'open' prices, and much more there will be no repayments. The JRC is fighting for such a society. As goes without saying, we are not voting on this bill. We shall be in the second phase of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u27	The special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law concerns a directive of the European Union with twenty-one articles, introduced on 17 April 2019, and it seems that we will be one of the first countries to ratify it. The first part sets out the scope for applying unfair practices in relation to the sales of agricultural products on the basis of the turnover of producers and buyers grouped into five subcategories on the basis of turnover from 2 million to 350 million. Subsequently, unfair commercial practices which damage producers are defined and market clauses which constitute unfair practices are put in place. A competent authority is also set up for this purpose in the Ministry of Rural Development, and there is no cost for it to be set up by the General Accounting Office of the State, so we reasonably assumed that it is a pretext. There is also a description of how sanctions are to be imposed and their amount is unforeseen from fines from the General Accounting Office of the State, which means that either supervision will be theoretical or paradoxically anticipated - that there will be no infringements. Finally, there is a description of how disputes are resolved, whether judicial or mediated. The second part refers to the auction procedures for the disposal of real estate by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the financing facility of up to 25 thousand euros without any presentation of insurance information and the method of paying consultancy services to a programme of the Common Agricultural Policy of 2014-2020. On some articles in the bill now I would like to say: in Article 1 and in paragraph 2a we have said that we consider it necessary to include buyers and those who have a turnover of less than EUR 2 million, namely adapting to the Greek reality in which sizes are much smaller than in other countries. In this respect, we stressed that it would be crucial for our vote to reduce the threshold well below EUR 2 million, because the buyers of this category in Greece are many and in isolated areas, especially in livestock farming, and often have a dominant position, if not a monopoly. We have, of course, added that if one wishes to do so, it can bypass the provision, and it is not clear whether it is about the integrated business cycle. For example, if a large supermarket chain creates a small subsidiary that purchases for itself against a small supply, then it goes beyond the problem. Alternatively, it may not even be a subsidiary, but it acts as a chain agent very often abroad. Article 3 restricts prohibition clauses. However, we are not sure that it covers all cases, and we have seen that in some paragraphs it covers the supplier without such a cover for the buyer, such as if the supplier changes the terms of sale or the quality of the product. In paragraph 1a(b)(j), the payment of part of the account or the delivery by the buyer to the supplier of a post-dated cheque shall not be considered as repayment within the meaning of this paragraph. In this respect, we mentioned that registration in a market database and repayment within 60 days was already provided for in Law.4392/2017, but never applied. So how will it be applied here, since the Committee on the Enforcement of Article 5 does not seem to have the necessary staff? On the other hand, what does not seem clear is how the forward-looking agriculture, which is the proposed solution of the Pissaridis study, is covered on page 209 of the study as a measure of farm growth. At a juncture such as today, with a deep crisis and a lack of funding, it has no role to play in what is considered unfair practice, if some chains finance through contract farming some producers but at very low production prices. We all know that the big buyers have a dominant position on the market, and if they also control the popular markets through their companies, the destructive law promoted by the Ministry of Development - it is indeed a disastrous law that must not pass - they will become even stronger. In the same article, in paragraph 1a, it states that there should be a strict application of the law, in relation to the time when the products are paid out from primary production to retail, so that the payment chain is not broken at all. The problem with implementation here is what is considered to be vulnerable, since some products can be frozen and withstand more than thirty days. With regard to paragraphs 1(f) and 1(j), we have noted that written agreement should be applied by electronic means to the competent economic authority or the Ministry of Rural Development with a view to the transparency of the terms of cooperation of the parties, in particular the agreed selling price. The word 'objective' in paragraph 1(j) must be deleted because the oral commitment is to the detriment of the weakest. Article 5 and paragraph 2 shall stipulate that the authorities shall act on their own initiative or on a complaint. In our view, the emphasis should be placed on self-control, not just expect the authorities to have complaints. In Article 6, the dual competence provided for in paragraph 2, i.e. as an initial examination by the Ministry's Committee and beyond on repeated occasions by the Competition Committee, should not exist because the Ministry's Committee is qualified with exclusive powers, so it can obviously and must manage all the relevant cases on its own. Furthermore, the Committee on Competition is a long way off, as we have seen, with the banks in particular. There must be a rapid examination here, especially if it concerns small producers. The provisions of paragraph 4 shall also restrict the protection of the complainants’ data, as they are required to request themselves to seek protection of their identity and any other information, and must specify specifically the information for which they are seeking confidentiality, despite the fact that the information should first be secret and only at the request of the complainant to be released. In Article 7, the provision that the enforcement authority may not make a decision if the decision poses a risk of disclosure of the complainant’s identity or of making harmful information publicly available for its own interests, is very likely to lead to the non-audit of decisions and to the cover as appropriate, thus making the provisions of the draft law meaningless. In Article 12, our observations related to the local authority, where it should be defined according to the applicant's professional seat, not the Athens Administrative Court. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In conclusion, we would like to address some other issues of the primary sector and first of all milk. In particular, after the abolition of milk quotas, the position of Greek production has deteriorated because it is called upon to deal with the overproduction of other European countries, as well as its huge production costs due mainly to expensive feeds. We have to note here that feed represents 67% of production costs in livestock farming, so their huge growth will cause us great problems, especially because, unfortunately, we import them instead of producing them ourselves - we import everything now in Greece - with our respective trade deficit at EUR 230 million. Returning to the milk issue, we consider it absolutely essential to restore the fresh to five days as it was before 2014, how much more so when there is the official confession of the state about the fundamental failure of the measure of the release of the life of the fresh. In addition to having a negative impact on producers, it did not result in the expected reduction in prices on the shelf for the benefit of consumers. Furthermore, we must pay particular attention to the question of feta, the protection of the name of which has been lifted for countries outside Europe, such as Canada. So we must do everything we can to prevent the European Union's conventions from being ratified with Canada and South Africa, if at least the feta is not excluded. Even worse, many businesses in Europe are illegally using the name of feta for their products because there is no Greek body that controls what is happening in other countries. The same is true of olive oil, which is also being falsified. Continuing, we referred to the very serious issue of Hellenism, especially as regards the falsified cow feta exported to Germany, the most important market for the Greek feta in which this event will cause us a great deal of damage. Already Denmark and Germany have found an opportunity and are attacking the patenting of feta in our country. In this context, the Ministry must ensure that very strict sanctions are imposed and nothing has ever been repeated again, and the best way to control every export to Greece, so that our country is not humiliated at any other time. We were degraded literally. Furthermore, all subsidies should be directed towards increasing the competitiveness of our primary sector, in any case where they have been directed over the last few decades. Obviously, we need support for farmers in times of natural disasters, but the uncontrolled subsidies were those that destroyed our primary sector - a great trap for our country - which needs a central approach and proper planning to develop, as is clearly seen from the examples of Israel, New Zealand, Denmark and others, which we have mentioned many times in the past. Our main objective must be to introduce new technologies into the primary sector in general, such as precision farming, etc., so that it becomes more competitive and also to attract our young scientists, those who have already left and those who are already planning to leave again. But there is a need for central planning by the government, without which it will not develop. It must not, of course, be based on the introduction of land workers, as the Minister said in his recent tour, since this is the model of the previous century, has long passed. One point that emerged from the discussion with the operators is the need to create company markets to promote sales by producers, which the 'Thessala' has done with great success, this innovative cooperative, which unfortunately went bankrupt for reasons that are not currently to mention. We note here that the German 'LIDL' is growing rapidly, while in Germany the ALDI' has decided, after pressure from buying only German milk - I stress, to buy only German milk - as we will submit in the Minutes later. Why, really, are we not even allowed to make recommendations to purchase Greek products from the Greeks, despite the fact that we know that this is very important? Because we're a occupied debt colony without any right? However, the Greek Solution has an integrated programme for our primary sector, such as direct access by producers to consumers, alternative sales networks, auctions - very important - for rural markets that are not related to people's and so on. We have also mentioned very serious issues, such as the saturation in the central vegetable market, questioning whether there is a matter of sale or concession, since it belongs to the TEAD, as well as to the Cavala fish auction, stressing that we have not only defined fishing zones and that the Turks sell our own fish, but also we sabotage our fishes, and finally that the market must normally function and celebrate Easter, which concerns, among other things, the sales of lambs, where our farmers have literally reached their limits. In conclusion, apart from the change in Article 1, which we consider crucial for our vote and which the Minister promised to shape, our reservations concern the ambiguity we have seen in many articles, while the bill is reasonable, ambiguities usually work in favour of the strong ones. However, our aim, in that case, of the draft law, must be to protect micro-producers, more generally those of the value chain. Although we have quite a few presents and no articles, we will vote 'yes' in principle, hoping to be the beginning of better legislation for our farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. The special speaker of Mera25, George Logiadis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the incorporation into Greek legislation of the European Union directive on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain. There are very large imbalances between suppliers and buyers in the agricultural and food supply chain. This asymmetry in the negotiation, where the strongest one has the upper hand and can impose its terms on the weaker ones. Unfair trade practices and blackmail have a negative impact on producers, their organisations, consumers and society in general. The spirit of this directive is to protect the economically weaker, to support them, to strengthen them, to help them to be sustainable. There are, however, many obstacles in this process. In the digital age, there is a great problem with the lack of digital selling of companies that say they do not have e-shop and much more in a very critical period, as now due to the lockdown. The concentration of 1% of agricultural enterprises that controls 70% of farmed land creates enormous disparities and problems of unfair competition. The political will of the European Union to shrink the primary sector, the inability of the Greek microproducer to compete with similar products produced from much cheaper third countries, the structure of the euro, which is a hard currency making exports very difficult, in combination with the exteriorly high interest rates in Greece, when in the core of the European Union they are zero or even negative even the lack of liquidity. It is precisely at this point that there is a need in Mera25 for a public rural bank that will provide funds at very low interest rates. At the same time, research centres in Greece in the agricultural sector create local, for example, seeds with great added value and verticalization in sales and exports. In a union such as the European Union, its members should first support and consume the products which its members produce and then import from other countries if they are in deficit in some products. The European Union directive we are debating today does not at all take into account the specificities of Greece, its geographical location, the small lots, the fact that it is a multinational country, with many mountainous volumes and increased production costs. The method of paying producers, as laid down in the directive, after thirty or sixty days, does not help. It does not support the many and very small producers, who are the majority and who do not have elementary facilities, storage facilities, offices and infrastructure. What small producer is going to enter the process of chasing someone who didn't pay him? Apparently no one. The non-written agreements between the parties and the existence of a black market do not protect the weaker. They are being destroyed, as has been shown in committees. I read exactly what the Minister said: 'We are finally supporting the Greek producer and promoting the Greek diet'. Minister, the primary sector's share of GDP in 1980 was 30%. It fell to 14% in 2000, and today 2020 is at 4%. We're importing everything. We even import five thousand tonnes of vine leaves from China every year and the Chinese exporter will create - says - and unit dolmades and export them. For what Greek nutrition we are talking about when all are imported products and what Greek nutrition we are also talking about in the tertiary sector, our heavy industry, in tourism, when most products are imported from abroad, New Zealand lamb, Egyptian potatoes and so on.Huh? In Article 5 of the directive, which lays down a committee to combat unfair trade practices, we in Mera25 stress that there must also be confiscational citizens, producers, processors and more transparency. We have recently seen the example of a leading Greek product, the PDO feta, the fraud of which the ELGO - "DIMITRA" - did not highlight the problem, but did then a holiday when the damage had been done and delayed. We in Merra25 stress in particular that further points that need to be taken into account for the protection of the primary sector and producers are young farmers and the conditions that you have put forward are not prohibitive, the unreasonable and orderly functioning of the people's markets, which we see today has erupted enormous storms of reaction, the review of forest maps, which are clearly re-examined, and the protection of the environment, which is in direct health. Environmental protection and today is dedicated to global health, more timely than ever. At this point I would like to highlight through an example the issue of the interlocutory and illegality and the enormous interests of large multinational companies. It is the product ‘ROUNDUP’, the herbicide - it is a carcinogen - whose further use was authorised in the European Union in 2017 adopted. Greece and Cyprus voted against this, but Germany voted for it, for the sake of virtually the Minister of Agriculture at the time, who acted on his own initiative without consulting Chancellor at all. It is a matter of enormous interlocutors at a pan-European level. We see at the end of 2020 that the company that produces the 'ROUNDUP' - previously was the 'MONSANTO' which was purchased by the German 'BAYER' - accepted a $10.9 billion compromise for the compensation of thousands of actions submitted against the 'ROUNDUP'. To close, as a Member of the House in Heraklion, I would like to present the following to you for Cretan olive oil. The effort to identify the Cretan olive oil producing agricultural cooperatives in Crete as the olive oil protected geographical indication of Crete is the culmination of the actions of these cooperatives, who have made considerable efforts to modernise their equipment and train their producers so that the product produced by them meets the strictest standards of quality markets worldwide. These cooperatives will ensure compliance with the specifications and will also be the guarantors of the successful trade course of the trademark by giving a great added value to the product in Crete and the Greek economy in general. It is incomprehensible that a protected island product is particularly sensitive to changes and changes, which will gain even greater health value due to its high polyphenols, subject to suffering due to transport outside Crete and the risk of degradation. That is why we asked you a question on 9 March 2021 to tell us whether you will support these efforts on Cretan olive oil. Finally, I should like to mention the requests from the rural associations - cooperatives of Tymbaki - Heraklion, Selino Chania, Sitia Lassithi and Ierapetra Lasithi, who are asking for financial support for the horticultural products of Crete which have been taken from the pandemic. Crete is the largest producer of vegetable products in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis, for keeping time. We enter the circle of speakers with Mr Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy first. Then the Minister will speak if he comes. Evangelos Apostolos will speak and the parliamentary representatives will speak every two speakers. Mr Arachovitis first asked for the floor. Therefore, Mr Arachovitis, after Mr Apostleos you will speak unless you agree with Mr Apostleos and take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u32	I would like to speak after the Minister, if there is no problem with the process, so that we can hear the changes, the legislative improvements that he has told us he will bring. I'd beg that we do it that way if it's easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u33	We'll see. Let's see what time the Minister's coming. Mr. Simopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes. I would ask that the time be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my speeches from the Stepma usually have no emotion or personal references. Today you will allow me to have it. It has been almost forty years since 1982 when the newly-built government of Andreas Papandreou began the famous battle of tomato in order to rebuild the trade area of agricultural products attacking justly and unjustly. My father was a small trader in the vegetable market. By law, taking into account the tick, he was getting out of the premises of the central vegetable market of Thessaloniki many small merchants. They were then called aliens and organized a course to Castri. I was part of my family, too. It was the first and last course I took part in. So I understand the mobilisations of many people who claim. I do not understand, of course, too many times how to mobilize. Also, there is no family responsibility, but children of government officials in the field of agricultural trade are now devoting the headquarters of the Anti-Population Officer. After 40 years it proved that the European Union has solutions. Regulations and directives are incorporated and refined in the process of trade in agricultural products. A similar bill we are talking about today, for which I only request that the implementation limit be reduced to include as many farmers as possible, but also professionals. There are also professionals who are suppliers of large multinationals and of the public. What about the professionals of agricultural products supplying the public? Although it is not about you, I will also concentrate on the issue of the people's markets. I cannot dwell on the subject of popular markets. Along with these people, I grew up. I've lived with them since I was in the first grades of high school, because I've been going to the vegetable market. Some of them feel the way I and my family felt in 1982. Do you need to modernise the space? Of course. Undoubtedly. The question I put to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Do we have to bear in mind, however, that thousands of families who ensure a non-extremely high standard of living from the people's markets must continue to have it? Sure, yeah. Should their popularity be maintained? Who's that? The sale of agricultural production. Thus, professional producers cannot be baptized. Many producers, of course, want it. I know with what I'm saying, maybe I'm across from a lot of producers. But the nature of the people's markets must not be lost. There may be a farmer from Florina for a year to sell zarzava on the people's markets. He sure as hell buys them sometime and becomes a dealer. In the name of this, however, we cannot leave our fields, the fields cultivating ten thousand farmers who supply the people's markets unprotectedly, even indirectly allowing companies to operate in the area, which, as the Anti-Fraud Office says, is not doing. Nor, Madam rapporteur, does what you said about PPP. If you know there's PPP, tell us this article. So there's no question, PPP. There's no company issue, as you said. But there may be a loophole in an article which must be closed. That is what you said, which has nothing to do with reality. Let me tell you that it's a make news unless you have the specific articles to tell us. Tell us where there are PPPs. I also agree with the fact that we need to see moleculosis for young farmers and certified farmers. Not to play a role in moleculeing the acquisition of a degree. I think it is an article, an intervention that can be made. I am also aware that the Federation of Attica agrees with the progress made and disagrees with the federations from the rest of Greece. I don't know if there's any way. Perhaps we can only promote it in Attica and measure the results. Let's see what's going to happen with the fields that are cultivated. Maybe it's an indirect way to move on. Personally, I would not like to see any more extraterrestrials. I'm sure the government is also moving in this direction. The government is listening to it, has proved it, and I am sure that it will also hear what I am saying today, mainly to reduce the limit from 2 million to 500 000, to which this draft law will apply. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that the bill, even for the people's markets, which has not yet been consulted, will be debated even more with the institutions, but also with the MPs, so that, in the end, we will have a bill that will actually modernise the people's markets and, of course, it will leave out, as I know, the voices of populism, which, without arguments - and I am addressing Prospective Opposition - are speaking of neoliberalism or of privatising the people's markets. There is no question of privatising the people's markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Evangelos Apostleou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are bringing to the vote today a bill whose main provisions have been passed by the SYRIZA Government. We were actively involved in the formulation of the directive that we are discussing. And since, before completion, there was a great deal of pressure on our rural area from unfair practices, we asked for and obtained the approval of the European Commission to integrate into our national network some of the most important regulations of the directive. Our two major sectors are the first to fight illegal Greekisation of agricultural products on the domestic market and the second to protect producers against unfair trade practices in the wholesale chains, with Law 4492/2017, on the marketing and marketing of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products. We have particularly introduced: firstly, compulsory labelling on milk and milk products in the country of milking, processing and packaging. Secondly, the compulsory entry at all stages of the movement of meat from the slaughterhouse to the cash register of the retail store in the country of birth, rearing and slaughter of the animal from which the meat comes. Thirdly, the obligation to pay producers of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products on the part of wholesalers, including supermarkets, not later than sixty days after the issue of the invoice. These regulations brought a grid of protection both to the Greek farmer and to Greek production and to the consumer, who may know for sure what really domestic product is as far as milk, dairy products and meat is concerned, and which they do not. And if the law were to apply, it wouldn't have happened the recent feta scandal. But I come to the harmonisation of the directive, ladies and gentlemen. A directive is a European acquis and it is well known that the main body of the bill is a copy, because it most often has a clear quality of legislation. It remains, therefore, in the Member State to add minimum provisions. These provisions should be discussed in the House and not transferred to the Minister's authorization, Article 16 in this case. This practice, you know, is a bad legacy. In particular, the products protected by the bill are identified by Ministerial Decision. That list of products should have attached it as an annex to the bill. In the harmonisation we made in 2017 with L.4492 we submitted a specific list of debates in Parliament and knew which products are listed in the bill. In addition, everything is determined by a ministerial decision for the Committee on the Falconer Opportunities. Do you think, Mr Ministers, that three directors-general who are responsible for many other responsibilities can, at the same time, investigate complaints, how much more to impose sanctions without the support of an organic unit? There is no mention of what will be the Ministry's actual organic unit. I cannot imagine such a difficult and unprecedented subject at European level for the committee alone to manage it. In addition, a joint decision of the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Digital Governance determines how to develop and operate and the technical details. Is it just your omission that you do not mention which address of the Ministry will cooperate with the Ministry of Digital Governance's respective Ministry for the establishment and maintenance of this specific electronic base, or is it something else? The philosophy of this base is based on the processing of complaints and not on automatic cross-checks, as planned and operated by Law 4492/2017, until it was abolished by your predecessor Minister. Of course, not only does not mention a single word in this law, but not even a single reference to which of these products can be incorporated into the provisions of this law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for a tolerance. If you had not abolished the operation of the platform, now we could now discuss better and more effective solutions. You chose zero-based treatment, without inspiration, plan and target. It is a slap, with the well-known justification for 'preventing the dates of harmonisation'. We all share the need to tackle the misunderstanding radically, we all know that the word "Greekisation" is not new and that it requires both legislative and administrative cooperation. This could be possible - it was our goal too - if you connected the two laws with the electronic bases and not ignore them. Yesterday, the Minister left a promise that he might approach it. In fact, the application of the electronic invoice would facilitate cross-checks established by the online platform of Law 4492/2017. Only in this way could the so-called Greekisms, which operate at the expense of the Greek farmer but also of the consumer, be fought to a large extent. Of course, the fight against Greekism does not abolish or prevent imports, but abolishes the unfair practices of certain malpractice traders at the expense of Greek producers. I would like to mention all this, ladies and gentlemen, in order to point out that these difficult issues cannot be dealt with by means of hasty legislation, as you have made this specific harmonisation. We, who have participated in the drafting of the directive, of course, are voting for it, but we stress that the lack of serious planning in its harmonisation is giving you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. The reason is now Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have a generally positive draft law which incorporates into the Greek legal system a directive on unfair commercial practices in relations between businesses in the chain of supply of agricultural products and foodstuffs, which is essential for the country, important institutional institutions, a shield to which we often see in the common market in the local community. Greece is, of course, slow to adopt this directive when other European countries have made similar legislation and, indeed, with a much greater specialization in the protection of producers against unfair commercial practices in wholesale trade and in retail trade. The aim is to protect agricultural producers in the vertical supply chain. The Change Movement too many times has dealt with your Ministry with various proposals and positions on these issues, but also questions about the bad texts that are daily, unfortunately, we have the opportunity to see. This law applies only to the vertical link between the supplier of agricultural products and foodstuffs, and we certainly hope that at least in its implementation it will provide a significant way out of phenomena which have been observed. Of course, as you can see, Madam Secretary, we still have a long way to go before us, as last year's good time, 3,5 euros sold lamb and goat and 12.5 euros came to the consumer, which means that in the words we say too much and good we are, but in practice we are not doing it. You cannot do this because you are at the wheel of the government. You have to do better, because last year you were government, there were no others, and no matter what you say about the previous ones and the previous ones, it's not enough. This year you will have to prevent this from happening. So the useful tools are only in our hands to protect producers, especially small producers. And we say small, because these are the unprotected, they need state care and protection. I now move on to a number of issues relating to the draft law. Turnover. Has our rapporteur already asked you this question, Madam Secretary: has the turnover of the last or last published year? They ask people who are in the room and we cannot give them an answer. The average turnover of the last two, three or four uses? You have to answer that. You have to answer it, say it, we know it, you know it and all the producers know it. It's the key to the bill. I find nothing bigger than what you need to answer, and I wonder why you haven't answered it yet. You should have said to the Stepma of this House that, first and foremost, before the start of the debate, I would like to tell you this in order to clarify and put an end to the matter. You know or you don't know? Do you have an answer or don't you have one? If you don't, tell us 'we don't have an answer', but tell us something, because we're being watched by people who are interested. Now I'm continuing with the rest. Look. As far as your NSA, which has recently been very concerned with us, is concerned, apart from matters relating to arranging regulations and regulations, which should have existed for a long time under national law, other things should be done. But let us not talk about the affinity of the system now, but also of the public administration. We were saying so far in the Senate's parallel courtroom how we would control public administration, as if we had incorporated what we had to do. Anyway! Here as a government, Madam Secretary, we should tell you that unfortunately you still have too much to do in your own field. Not only have you not reached the maxim of your possibilities for agricultural matters - because I heard your staff say that - but in the country's neural primary sector you should admit that we currently have the rural world with the back on the wall. And eyes in the sky, I'll fill in. Prayer is to survive. Into the pandemic, no radio silence from your ministry! As if they weren't there, as if you didn't see them, as if the coronary didn't beat the producers, the farmers, as if it didn't restrict trade, as if it didn't shrink the extroversion of products! Not only were you sick but nowhere, invisible to a neural prefecture that supports the backbone of the rural economy, such as my constituency, my country, my homeland, Larissa. You know very well that, unfortunately, farmers and farmers from you alone have complaints and, unfortunately, you are no longer coming. You used to take a walk around the countryside. Now you don't even come to the trees! The day before yesterday, at the heart of spring, at the heart of the climate crisis - to open our eyes at last, to admit it and to spell it out, not to be afraid, we have a climate crisis - you know, Madam Secretary, that everything has been destroyed. The almond blossoms, cherry, peach trees and all the trees were not left in “treas” and ended for the third consecutive year. We're talking about disgusting protection and you're looking elsewhere. We are also telling you that it is not possible to provide compensation for the public, namely the taxpayer for three consecutive years each year and not to make dissimilar protection. Now I have also seen New Democracy MPs fighting with each other and experts who are on their way here or there as to whether we are going to do pipes, rods of hot water, or whether we are going to make windmills. Find them. But make us dislikeful, because it is a fourth consecutive year that we have not lifted our heads and now raises a serious issue of survival. I now come to questions relating to OPEKEPE, the headless OPECE. You have taken him to the farm policy crunch with the previous President. OPEKEPE stayed headless for months, and it is not enough where he was headless - that is, we are now being put under suspicion because that man left - and we have seen the divisions you have made and the scandals that have existed. The Minister himself said you were investigating this. What exactly is happening and what do you have to tell us about these issues that have left speechless, not the world of politics, the world of the rural economy? What about the anachronistic ELGA that comes out of your Ministry's leadership and talks about the ELGA framework, which is anachronistic and needs to be modernised? And the poor man, the poor farmer with the raisins, says: Tell me, please tell me a lot, why don't you modernise it after you see it as anachronistic? For decades, since this Step of the House, we have been spending many of us, including myself. I did not go through this again, but it doesn't matter why the political system has collective responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. The poor guy won't stand out with the raisins either me or you, Madam Secretary. He'll say, since it's anachronistic and you're all saying it, why don't you finally sit down and update the ELGA system? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And one final comment, Mr President, on your tolerance. Look. When we're talking here, the poet would say, about others, they're cursing. The black flags from the populaces, to which you have reached the producers of the people's markets, who in my hometown, set the benches up early in the morning - are cheerfully and humiliated when they go to the folk. They are the people of the strife who have mixed the sweat with the dirt and what they like and they love it. So you're a degree to them? You're importing the companies to the benches and you don't get a degree in S.H.I.E.L.D. commander? I mean, bug raki: 0-2! This is what you have managed to do on the Greek political scene. So we're giving it to you, it's yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u39	Mr Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, over half of the Greek Parliamentary Group we were just in this great mobilisation of the people's markets. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, it is a form of oxymomile to discuss the protection of the producer against trader - to create, in other words, a relationship of confidence, a difficult part of trade competition - and to have this bill prepared by the government for the people's markets. And I say this, because we, as a Greek Solution for over a month ago, tabled the timely question to the Minister responsible, Mr Georgiadis, who told us then in the timely question we tabled as Greek Solution, that there is no draft law, that all these are just thoughts, it is a plan, but it has not been completed today with black flags, because where there is smoke and even black smoke and not white smoke, there is a fire. I am saying this because other things here say to us, in Greek Solution, Mr Georgiadis and others are now happening. On the issue of the management of the people's markets some things have been modified, but they are not amended, they are more mutated. And the mutations are the ones that scare, as are the issue of viruses. And I say that, because what we say in the Greek Solution for the primary sector is the following. If we do not modernise the primary sector in Greece, we cannot hope that we will also have a protection for the small producer, who will be hostage and bundle of the large traders. People's markets are a university of popular will. It's the people's fair. There people make their feelings of grief, both for producers and consumers. What is the ultimate purpose of the people's markets, since the time of the Venizelos Eleftherios Venizelos, that is, since they were introduced? It is to protect the small lot, the backpatient, the biopatient, the undisturbed trade. Isn't that what the people's markets were all about? To protect the producer, who has a small shrunk income and has to sell his practices, whether this is the production from the field or some other kinds. And now comes an entity that auctions the posts, auctions, for popular markets? So, in this great school called the people's market - where there is a ritual for the consumer, who wants to have an interpersonal relationship with the producer, to say his poorness, his joy, to have a dialogue, to trust him - you cannot suddenly change the character of the great 'church of the municipality', as we would say, if I were allowed to do the term within introductory terms, of the assemblies of the people's markets. People's market on a popular basis, the word says so. I say this because people's markets are protected in the European Union. Let us not cancel various contracts because the small producer is protected from errors, of course, of the European Union, on the issue of the major financial trusts that control the whole situation. In France, for example, we said this as a Greek solution to the current question, up to EUR 43 000, gives a 2.31% tax bonus to the French producers. In Germany, local gastronomy, i.e. local food products, is protected. So they have seen that it is indeed the core or, if you like, the backbone on a popular basis of small producers - that is, they have caught it right - and protect them. And today we are talking about a relationship of confidence that has been disturbed for years, with the infamous Trade Register - to remind you - by Law 3955/2011 and much earlier with Law 3419/2005? Why am I saying that? Because here you are setting a limit, gentlemen of the government, of EUR 2 million for the trading cycle, for who will be included in it or not. But how is it possible when in GEMH, in the chambers of commerce, they can be in the Trade Register, so they are classified as traders. So why are you making this distinction in accordance with Article 1 at all times? So in order for there to be a protection and to be an oasis and a refuge for the small producer above all, which is the backbone in the primary sector against the trader, but also to create a relationship of confidence, there must be substantial safeguards in place. So when this digital platform of the Trade Register has multiple and complex problems and did not open - one opened and one closed since 2018 - can we hope that traders will comply with the new suggestions? First of all, say it. Is there going to be a black list of outlets for dealers, who are bleeding the space and are they not right in dealing with the small producer who needs to be protected? So we should also see the abusive terms. Because, not to hide, the market has its rules. We've told you a lot of things from the Greek Solution. In other words, there are abused contract terms. And what does the trader say to the farmer or to the producer who takes out the legumes or dairy? He says: "There will also be an advertising campaign and you will also be helpful." And nowadays, there are big companies that are cheating, exploiting the name, the brand name of some producers and making them contribute, but they have them in the finest letters in their advertising campaigns. There are still abusive contracts, but they are legally supported, because, he says, it is undeniable that if some products are not sold, the dealer will return them back to the producer. And if these are consumable products, within a limited period of time, what happens? Some staff, working hours, will still be charged with a number of operational expenses for product reorganization. These are some signed legal contracts, but they are abusive to the small- and medium-sized one. Is something going to happen there, to remove these contracts to the notorious transactions? In order not to hide, this applies to the market, the producer is pressed. Producers will still be paid for the Corono aid, and farmers will still get - as Mr Vorides said - for bluetongue. Where's the compensation? So how will we protect the small- and medium-sized one? You know, what we have often told you as a Greek Solution is: There has been no preparation for the opening of the horizon of the European Union for the coming years until 2029, with the famous National Strategic Framework for Development, which looks forward to and focuses on agri-food, but where? The processing stage. Did we do something about this to take advantage of the NRP in relation to the processing and marketing of agricultural products? I do not see any plan yet, because as Greece at the last minute, we say that we still have years. It's not like that. Have we made a design on it? In conclusion, the abusive conditions should be removed and legally protected. It's also our proposal as a Greek solution. Not to enter these abusive terms of dealers dealing with advertising campaigns, returning certain products, which the merchants are asking for back their money because, he says, they did not sell them and even charge them for rescheduling in warehouses from the workforce, which they also travel to the producer. Because they say that. If there are unambiguous conditions, the contracts shall be complied with. This should be removed. There can be no other way of protecting a producer. I bring you the racing greetings from the small sellers of popular markets. Mr Georgiadis, for the title "cold murder of the people's markets", which you then reacted to us as Greek Solution, if you like, "in warmth". Because the small sellers of the people's markets are there, it rains - it snows at all times, whether hot or cold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you too, Mr. Booba. Ms Angeliki Adamopoulos will now be given the floor from Mera25, then the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Hetas, then the Minister, and then the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, Mr Arahovitis, will speak. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to denounce the fact that health measures are not respected within the House itself. The Prime Minister comes out and makes announcements of individual responsibility. I'll urge you to take a walk in the offices and see employees who don't wear the masks. I came in a while ago and when they saw me, scared, they wore it. Individual responsibility is not only for the people, it is primarily for the building of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u43	Mrs Adamopoulou, I will inform the President of Parliament about what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I am now entering my speech. As we know, the Greek agri-foodstuffs sector faces many challenges, which will increasingly increase over the years. Of course, the problems it faces are due to the fact that large international players, local subsidiaries and other co-operating foreign companies are becoming increasingly involved in the production process in various ways, resulting in the individual simple producer, as well as doing his job and trying to adapt to developments, cannot cope with this expansionary wave of capital, this invasion of capital. What you are proposing to the simple producer is to be tied as an exclusive supplier in the tank of a large company, a supermarket chain, a wholesale reseller as a supplier, a broker-storer, and you tell him that this guarantees him his income. What you are not telling him, however, is that this will become dependent both on negotiations and on pricing policy and land use. This really is not a vision for agriculture and livestock. What you have to do is be an example from countries that have implemented very successful models, adopt their practices and ideas, for example, the country of Israel. This is a country with a very small area of use and an area of up to two hundred and fifty metres below the sea level, but which has managed to meet internal needs in fruit and vegetables up to 95% thanks to synergy, cooperation between agricultural cooperatives with Israeli universities and international research centres. We come to Greece, which has much more water, much more scattered vultures of fertile size, and we end up seeing in the shelves and benches of Argentine's supermarket lemons, South Africa pears that come on the house, they come frozen in the containers. And that's why? Because you are simply not taking advantage of the agri-food economy - this is the key to the whole case - the cooperatives that you have taken care of and dismantled with the bogeyman of the law on Mr Voridis' term of office, after you have made them a party party party party and left them in unworthy hands to be ravaged. The same catastrophic plan you have for people's markets. You want to destroy the Greek producer by privatising them essentially. You ask him to have up to EUR 30,000 capital to get permission to replace it with companies and make virtually poor outdoors mini shopping centers. So we see that there is no vigilant, coordinated, centrally-designed policy to protect products with both quality and origin protection. And this proves the fact that the Greek industrialist comes and exports packed cheese that baptizes it feta cheese, with a composition of up to 70% in cow's milk and while we know that feta is chopped with sheep's milk of domestic origin. This complaint and disclosure has made it a company of Greek interests in Germany after a molecular analysis. The same goes for Romanian yogurt. Greek comes and baptizes Greek yogurt. Should we say about Italian oil, which is promoted and exported at a very high price, while it has up to 70% of Greek oil? This is because the Italians are obviously far more prosperous traders than we are, but also because, among other things, there is no effective policy, a central planning of guidance, which protects the products, so that our country has been "blooding" so many years to convince for itself about the feta? Can it be the feta at issue all these years, just precisely why is there no such central design that protects and promotes exports? In other words, we should not think that this is why only the experts who, in any case, are responsible for their personal gains, but also because there is not precisely this coordinated policy by all export-promoting governments, so that added value is lost for both the economy and society. I will finish with the example of Crete, because it happens to be my origin from there. It is one of the most oil-producing regions. If there were a planned policy, as I mentioned, with the front and organized state, then many bulk amounts of oil, sold against a lentil plate literally abroad, would remain in Greece, bottled with Greek regulars, exported at the best price, and it would be a high-quality oil, which would stimulate the domestic economy and domestic employment. Minister, in the midst of a pandemic you should have used all the time you had to give priority to strengthening the primary sector. We haven't seen any initiatives so far. You must put this as a priority in view of the deep recession that runs the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. The Minister for Rural Development, Mr. Spilios Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a special honour for me to recommend the first bill of my term as Minister for Rural Development and Food in the plenary today, a bill that in practice strengthens all Greek farmers and producers. I was very pleased to see during the process that all operators, the rural world itself, and the market were also in favour of the bill. However, I have seen one more thing: the opposition parties in an exemplary framework of parliamentary dialogue in the past few days have expressed a positive voice on the legislative initiative, of course, highlighting all parties their particular concerns and some individual disagreements in this bill. It will be really important for the rural world as a whole, but also for our parliamentary democracy, to vote in favour, as I have heard, of all parties or even a large part of Parliament's wings. Here I would like to say to you as well: the philosophy of the Mitsotakis Government, but my own personal perception of politics lies in the composition of opinions and not in sterile dogmatism. We are, as many have said, open to hearing proposals and, if they are sound and effective, to implement them. After all, our knowledge is not the temporary political benefit, but the essential work for the benefit of the Greek people and specifically for the benefit of all Greek farmers. In this context, Mrs Adamopoulou, if you think that we really have not taken initiatives in favour of farmers, I would like to tell you that I have discussed with members of your party dealing with agricultural matters and I am open to you to send me specific proposals and to come to discuss them. Any direction you think is right and perhaps we don't think about it we're open to discussing it. I would also like in this context to give a few answers to the parties' rapporteurs and colleagues who spoke before. Of course, I will not get carried away - at least in my protology - from responding to a more general political or abstract debate, regardless of what is extremely useful, I would say today's legislative initiative. I do this mainly from respect for the substance of the bill and from respect for Greek farmers and Greek rural women who from this bill will gain much. In particular, the rapporteur of the Movement of Change in the post-dated cheques was mentioned. In relation to what you said, Mr Colleague, there is an explicit reference to the first paragraph of Article 3 that the delivery of a post-dated check is not a repayment. As regards what Mrs Konnakas said, the definitions of Article 2 and the term'supplier', it is explicitly stated that they relate to associations of organisations and therefore to all cooperatives and all associations. With regard to what Mr Villards said, the recording of deformable and processed products will be done with great care and diligence so that we do not have any of the problems you fear. In this context, I am frankly saying, your assistance and your thoughts are useful. Come and form together, before we make the ministerial decision, how will this categorisation be done? I have therefore tabled precisely in this context and related legislative improvements, in substance accepting the proposal of counter-population, but also many of the stakeholders who came to the consultation, to extend the scope of the proposed draft law to the buyers with an annual turnover of over EUR 500 000 instead of the 2 million provided for in the draft law. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is a serious and documented proposal, which we very much welcome, since it further improves the draft law that we are discussing. Our homeland, especially these difficult hours that it spends because of pandemic, needs a policy responsibly, not extreme opposition krone, not pedestrian designations. Our society has moved forward, leaving behind at the time when the political opponent was an enemy. That is what we all have to do, in order to set the good example here in Parliament: the opposition to present serious proposals and the government, when it considers that they are beneficial to the country, should adopt them, without micro-participatory purposes. This is the path of policy that we are proposing, the path of sincere and fruitful dialogue, of exchange of views, of composition and not of degradation. So I urge you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, not to allow the extreme voices in your party to dominate and give to your party - as much - that exist in your ranks, voices that are nourished by chaos and abundance, polarization and division. Let this consensus be made and this bill the beginning of a fruitful and honest dialogue with substantial results for Greeks and Greeks. This draft law, as I mentioned in the committee, is a large section. For the first time our producers will be paid in thirty days for the deformable products and in sixty days for the other agricultural products. Indeed, as the rapporteur and Mr Apostle of SYRIZA mentioned, they themselves had established Law 4492/2017. But they did - I said yesterday in my speech to the committee - its implementing ministerial decision in February 2019, one and a half years after their law was passed. In addition, the legal platform was stiff and bureaucratic. It has never worked in practice, it has never been embraced by producers, they have not seen this protection they were looking forward to. I do not want to repeat what I said yesterday in committee. They're registered in the Minutes. I just want to give the Minutes a note from the Office of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food containing the reasons why my predecessor at the Ministry made this decision, which I think was right and did not have a political objective. It was essential that we should be able to go further. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panayiotis (Spilios) Lebanese presents the abovementioned information note, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] To be clear, as I did yesterday, I am sure that the intentions were good and well-meaning at that time, in the era of governance by SYRIZA, on this matter. Besides, the New Democracy, as an opposition, through our rapporteur and now the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mrs Arabaji, had voted in favour of this bill in principle. So your intentions were good. But the truth is that in practice, unfortunately, you did not actually manage to implement this law and in the interests of producers. I am pleased that today you are coming and confirming your will to vote, as you said by your rapporteur, first of all, for this bill. In short, as I said, in this bill we set out specific times in which our producers must be paid for their products and we ultimately ensure free competition, without distortions, that we lay down fair rules that apply to all of us, and in practice we guarantee that any complaint of unfair practices will be done safely and will be dealt with seriously. We are making use of the possibilities of digital transformation. Finally, we support the Greek producer and promote the Greek diet. I firmly believe that it is a bill that comes to protect our farmers, but also to give the tone, the mark of the next day after the pandemic. One day we will have to find - and here I agree with all those who have put it in this context - our rural world upright, able to participate with all its forces in the restructuring of our country and economy. The long-term payment of our producers, the ban on lion contracts at their expense, provide the protection they need. It allows them to live their families, but also to invest in their land, to make more realistic and sustainable plans for their future. A key role in this, in their future, namely - and I repeat on this point that your proposals are not only acceptable, but are useful in this dialogue that we are going to have - will play the Recovery Fund, this tool which will lead to Greece in the next few decades, in Greece that we want to leave to our children. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food accounts for about EUR 1.5 billion, before leverage with private funds and I include state participation. So together with the sums of about 1.6 billion of the two years of the transitional period and the package of some 19.5 billion of the new CAP, we have the possibility of making many infrastructures, which will be the ones that will actually change the agri-food sector. This money will be given in a concrete way. The areas in which most of this money will be invested basically reflect the great needs of the space: the transformation of the productive model, irrigation, digitisation, education and training. Policies that are environmentally friendly, with a vote of confidence in our new producers - and you have already seen the programme of young farmers who are over-aided in relation to the previous ones - will be the future of our country and of Greek agriculture for the next decades. Of course, as it is understood, the Prime Minister himself said - this project is not about a government, it is not about a ministerial service, it is obviously not about a party. That is why yesterday there was a detailed discussion and presentation of the plan here, in this Chamber, from the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, so that there would be precisely this fermentation between the parties, that there would be positions, opinions, but above all proposals. Because that is what we need, smart and effective proposals. I would therefore invite you, both for the funds and for the actions of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to come and discuss, to table your proposals and your thoughts, to reconcile, in essence, the future of the next generations and of the Greek producers. This is true, in order to cover your concerns - which are also our concerns - on how this good, the right law will be implemented properly. In this context, and with the experience of those who have been through the public administration, but also others who are from the free market, I sincerely expect to see together how we can take the strange paths that my colleague from the Communist Party said before, but also the loopholes that are there, so that we can actually implement this draft law which we are voting on today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food seeks, at the same time, to redefine the primary sector's rebranding. The basic principles of this effort are the extroversion, digitisation, education and training of our farmers, the development of environmentally friendly policies with respect for the European Commission's Green Deal policy. The implementation of the policy "From the farm to the plate", aimed at highlighting the endless advantages of the Greek diet, which is more than a brand name, is - and so we must project it - another way of life. The primary sector - I have told all tons, I repeat, once again - is not being offered for a sterile opposition, it is not being offered for old-style cockfighting. On the contrary, it requires cooperation and a synthesis of views. So let this bill be the opportunity to unite our political forces for the benefit of Greek producers. In conclusion, I would really like to thank all those who worked at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, the collaborators in our office and in particular the Legal Counselor, Mr Golfinopoulou, who worked too much not only to write a clean, crystal bill and not to be one of those bills that we are used to, which confuse us all, but, at the same time, to make a substantial, exhaustive dialogue with all the actors and with all those affected on one side or on the other side of this bill. I would also like to thank once again, as I did as a Parliamentary representative, the services and officials of Parliament, our national Parliament, which is here today, but they are also in their offices. My colleague said before that we might not follow the measures. We all need to follow measures. It is a good story, but it is a good thing to give credit. I therefore thank them both for the cooperation, but also for the hours they work, so that we can do our work better. Thank you, too, for the criticism you have made, the good news of your proposals, and I hope that we will continue in the next steps and the next initiatives to be taken at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u47	Thank you too, Minister, for keeping time. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas, has the floor. Mr Stavros Arachovitis, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, will then speak to two MPs, Mr Kelles from New Democracy and Mrs Jackri from SYRIZA, and then to Mr Michael Katrinis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr Levane, first of all, I would like to say that you have been a pleasant surprise to Parliament today. You show that you are an experienced parliamentarian and that you have been through these benches. You have respected Parliament, you have respected my fellow Members, you have been in time and you have shown that you are in the mood - and we must say that - of cooperation on an issue on which there is indeed no controversy: for the primary sector. It is also good that you have heard some of our speeches by Mr Villardou's mouth in the committees and changed them. I think that is the legitimate result of a parliamentary process, let me say it like that. It was a pleasant note today. We're really happy. Now, two, three things for the sector we are talking about today and the need - because it is, in fact, an undeniable need - to change the economic model of our country and to turn to the primary sector. We have said it and put it as a Greek Solution - I remember it as now - from the first day we entered the Greek Parliament. I remember, in fact, that was the reference we made to the first day of the House. We are giving a very large base on this and we have, indeed, been confirmed, and now with the situation of the coronary, even more. So you understand that the development of primary production, for which our language has haired, can give us, Minister, a way out of the grim reality, just as long as we support it on the substance, by acts and by measures of substance. I would like to inform the Greeks and Greeks who are listening to us, but also the Plenary Assembly, that the renewed - as soon as it has come out - of the fresh programme of the Greek Solution provides for the effective support of Greek farmers, fishermen and farmers. I also call on these people to obtain our programme, which will be printed on thousands of copies and shared throughout society, but also through the online page of the Greek Solution, to be informed. We are proud of our programme and we challenge and invite the Greeks and Greek women to read it to judge us from there. Look at us, read us, listen to us and judge us. We're not hiding anything. We're working. It is an adapted programme that gives a great deal of basis to primary production and, of course, it is always adapted by the particular circumstances. The impetus to primary production means the application of new technologies, Minister. And we should slowly, beyond the European sanctions that we are obliged to incorporate into Greek legislation, move on to essential things too. The best thing is to see young scientists, our children interested in modern agricultural production. Thus, unemployment will be fought and will be a great incentive to turn thousands of our young people back. Now, Mr Levane, because, as I said before, you are experienced and a few months ago we are politically classified here - I shall refer to the face of your own, the State Secretary and the Members of the New Democracy, the Government, so I would like to address a few issues that concern the Greek society every day and to speak of a huge'success' - I put it in introductory terms, of course, because I say it ironically - of the government. I don't know if you know - because you're very busy and absorbed by your Ministry - if you're aware, whether you're aware or not by Greek women and Greeks, that we have the toughest lockdown in the world. We're the worst country in the world, along with Venezuela. I shall submit to the end of my speech on the Minutes, the official documents, etc. And I'd like you to pick them up, too, so you can take a look. In Greece we imposed the largest in Europe's lockdown. We are in the worst position, the very bad, the bad 40th of the fifty-three countries in the 'BLOOMBERG' ranking. I shall put this before you, Mr New Democracy Parliamentarians, for the Minutes. We're under Nigeria, under Pakistan. We're under Bangladesh, from Malaysia, under India. That's what we're talking about. We have 3.1 marker of mortality, and we are the sixty-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-year-old among ninety-two countries that evaluated STATISTA. I'm going to testify the relevant photograph of the Minutes. Cyprus has 0.56, Israel 0.79, Norway 0.7 Guinea 0.62. We have a record of cases, a record of interlocked and a record of deaths. Sadly, we lost six hundred people in the first eight months and seven thousand six hundred thirty - two in five months. In other words, it's a huge difference. 60% to 80% of deaths are now happening outside the ICU. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. Here's all the documents together. You'll get it after the end of my speech. I shall not, Mr Levane, be staying, Mr Lebanese, Mr President-in-Office of the New Democracy, in this revolt, indeed, of the government. You know, people are not just tired, they're not sick of the total shutdown, the lockdown, the measures, the closed stores. What has angered him is how unrelated and dangerous the government is eventually proved. What has angered the world is your inability to manage this situation. Question: Who governs this place - on the COVID part I mean? Does the New Democracy govern him or do the infectious people rule him? Or the infectious people have taken you out of your hand and you have gone to the cliff and you fall - you are in free fall right now - and you have destroyed society, economy and people or you. Because we saw Mr Georgiadis say that he convinced the infectious ones a moment ago. Excuse me a little, do politicians convince infectious or infectious people decide and politicians follow? Decide and tell us. You should be aware that they constitute a huge insult to the Greek people the decisions made and the repetitions of the closure of the market in specific geographical areas, such as Achaia, Thessaloniki and, of course, Kosani. Terrible things, getting ready of late - because he heard the Prime Minister - a retailer opening his shop and two hours later saying he won't open. It's not like that. It's funny. We, as a Greek Solution, now require the immediate compensation of professionals and workers. It is the only way to catch up with this enclaves orchestra that unfortunately is about to come to Greek society. We recall that the small and medium-sized enterprises, this man out there struggling, who had two-three employees, who had a family business for twenty-three years, this small and medium-sized enterprise, is the main donor, is the backbone of the Greek economy. That's the one you broke up, you knocked it off. You have broken up small and medium-sized enterprises for the benefit of multinationals. Unfortunately, you have condemned Greece with the continuing lockdown. You killed the economy, the society with your criminal mistakes. Wrong, wrong! It's time to put an end to the lies you're telling the world. It's time to put an end to your irrationality, to put an end to the revolts you've made the world crazy. Beginning and saying that only makes sense. Finally the other things I mentioned. It's only reasonable! Because if the logic does not go ahead, it will end in Greece and we are very afraid of it. Because your old age doesn't just stop there. Now we have the self-tests. We denounced you by the mouth of the President of the Greek Solution for the self-tests story. Share of this huge company 'ROCHE' with 33% is 'NOVARTIS'. And all you had to say is that it's not Roche, it's called 'ROCHE'. So we show you the scandal that in this Chamber we are talking about 'NOVARTIS' again. We don't care about the political part. He's on his way to justice. However, in the lost part of the Greek public's money we are perpendicular. Instead of asking for the money behind "NOVARTIS", the money of the Greek people, the billions lost, we proceed to new deals, new tricks and new markets with "NOVARTIS". Because "NOVARTIS" has 33.3%, as Kyriakos Velopoulos, "ROCHE" - or Rose as you like, if your problem is that - but "NOVARTIS" remains. Whether you say 'ROCHE', either you say 'Rose' or you say 'Roze', 'NOVARTIS' has 33.3% and you need to apologize to the Greek people that you do deal with this company. Now there are the self-tests that you sent them to the pharmacy today. But you're so unmasked, you're so cuffy, you did it in twenty-five. The pharmacists are out of their minds! They sit now, undisturbed, opening boxes, making them one, one. They're furious!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u49	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u50	Tell the pharmacists that. This, Mr. Stamenite, tell the pharmacists, not me. I'm the one who told me they were furious! Let's get down to the most serious thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u51	Come to the bill, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u52	I made my reports, Mr President, in the bill at first. As a parliamentarian, I will make a reference to some other issues. Thank you very much for the point. Be well. We're going to the most serious thing right now. You're a lot of doctors here today. Who is SWISS MED? This company - because these are the serious ones - took the portion of the self-tests lion. A company of IKE with a share capital of 30,000 euros - colossus! - it was created six months ago, it doesn't even have a site and it took the portion of the self-tests lion. How's that, guys? A company set up in October with an initial capital of EUR 30,000? These are serious complaints which I shall make on the Minutes. You'll have to answer what's going on with these stories. The company itself won the EGE competition at the rapid tests, but that's where we had appeals and still is the unfinished situation. He took the Chinese self - tests "joysbio". Velopoulos says so, the president says so, we will reveal them to you with papers. These Chinese self-tests had been proposed by the ARMANI SWISS. Now look! ‘SWISS MED’ means one, ‘ARMANI SWISS’, the other. Why had ARMANI SWISS proposed them in the scandalous competition for the Attica region, where we had paid 9 euros one and now 2.4 euros? These are the big and important ones and you can answer us. You should also reply to us that you had four, five, six months in your drawers locked, very well locked, the Prespecies Agreements that have to come here now, - ratify them, for Skopje I mean - and you New Democracy Members will be forced to vote in favour of bills indicating Skopje as Northern Macedonia and you will put your signatures. Let me see you there, but this time will come. Just tell us what the Minister of Development means a while ago when he says that Macedonia has not been betrayed by Tsipras? Tell us. What are these now? Is she new? We must first say that and ask the Macedonian citizens whether the agreement was treacherous or not. But tell us what it means by oral Georgiad, that Tsipras did not betray Macedonia. We got the hint. The coup d'état's been coming and we've been seeing you for a long time. Alexis Tsipras set up the carpet the day before yesterday and he comes to take the baldness of Adonis Georgiadis. What did Tsipras say the other day? First, he denied everything that Paulis said. He "empted" him: "Not of course New Democracy said such things." It agrees on the appeal to The Hague by SYRIZA to both Greek and Greek Turkish and the EOZs you sign for both agreements and everything! There's the coup d'état coming. Mr President, I will conclude with a very important issue on our national issues. I wonder who the Prime Minister hears and who you sent him to Libya yesterday? Do what in Libya? Kyriakos Mitsotakis smiles awkwardly out of place and out of time, while Turkey's Libyan strawman, the transitional Prime Minister Abdul Hamid Dibeh....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Heta, you've been in the fourth minute, and for the bill you only talked four, five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u54	It is my right, Mr President, and thank you very much. I will finish my speech with this thing. I am a parliamentary representative and can refer to topical issues, as I have been doing for two years now. Today, you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u55	Listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u56	It's okay. Mr President, you may not like what I say, you will all hear it, not just you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u57	You'll get him time. But as President-in-Office, I must remind you of the Rules of Procedure, in particular Rule 66 - I think paragraph 8 is - which says that the President is required to tell the speaker when he is on the agenda to return. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I would like you to be as sensitive as the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Heta...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u60	I'll answer and finish. We're having a dialogue, Mr. President. I'd like you to be as sensitive as the others. Let's go down. This Minister - he knows - I honor him and I suspect him very much, as well as his bill concerning the primary sector. But let's go further, though. Let my reasoning end, to finish my speech and to draw everyone's way today. Because what we are talking about is very important, Mr President. The Greek Prime Minister representing all Greece, all Greek women - because it is so on national issues - in Libya for no reason and meets a needless man, a transitional Prime Minister! And we're talking about an unprecedented scene in the international data of diplomacy, where the Prime Minister hosts his counterpart from a stronger country even...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u61	All right, hang up. You've been in 15 minutes. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u62	Please, Mr President! I've taken my dentistry. I won't talk again. Don't you want me to say these things? I'll say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u63	But can you talk for 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u64	I'll say it! I'll be out in two minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u65	What two minutes now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u66	I have dentology and tritology, I have 12, six and three minutes respectively. I'm 15.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u67	Let me tell you. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u68	On vacation, I'm 15.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u69	All right, I ate you for a second. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u70	I have a dentology, I have a tritology. I won't talk again. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u71	You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u72	Who tells us we have to be on a subject? I don't understand! I do not really understand that, Mr President, today what you are trying to achieve. Decorate me? I don't think I'm disconnecting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u73	The time of your dentistry will now be taken into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u74	Oh, of course. Isn't that what we're saying? That's what we're talking about. At the end of the day, we are always in agreement, Mr President. Don't interrupt me, and don't make it hard for me, please. What we see is unprecedented. The Prime Minister's confession, a pyroman of the Turks to have the Greek Prime Minister next to him and to make such an insult. What? That the Libyan of the agreement was defended in front of the Greek Prime Minister and that we should not say anything! Libyan Prime Minister considers the violation of Greek sovereignty and the threat to the Greek people is in the interest of the Libyan people! What did we do there? What about Mr. Mitsotakis' reaction? Unfortunately, he did not even dare mention Turkey's name. I am not saying you, Mr President, to stop being in a difficult position. In fact, in my brief parliamentary life, almost two years ago, with too many speeches I have never met before to interrupt so many times the parliamentary representative of a party, when he has chosen outside the bill that I made my introduction and spoke to Lebanon - but there my words were good, you did not bother me, you did not interrupt - but then when I referred to some other issues, very important to Greece and to our everyday life, you have interrupted me. That's why everyone is judged. And the judges are judged. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u75	I've drawn attention. I didn't interrupt you. Because when we get away from this, that's what they're creating.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u76	I would like to speak for a moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u77	All right, Mr. Bukoro, let go. I'll tell you when your turn comes. Mr Arachovitis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. After Mr. Arachovitis, Mr. Kelles will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u78	Excuse me, can't we just answer for a second? It sounds like twisting things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u79	Would you like a minute on a point of order? I don't understand. I thought you would now like to make your main speech. Wait a minute, Mr. Arachovitis. Here you go, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u80	For one minute, I will use it, I have not spoken at all as a parliamentary representative. I ask for the floor not for any personal political controversy but for things to be distorted here, which touch the national interests of the country. Here we are trying to rebuild relations with this important country, which is right towards us. The Prime Minister is trying very early and with very good reflexes to try to weaken and ultimately cancel this illegal turmoil. Our Embassy in Libya reopens, which has not been working for seven years. Libya's diplomatic mission opens in Greece after two years of closure. We are trying to operate our Consulate in Benghazi and to promote our national interests in this very important country and we hear from some opposition parties that we have to behave as if this country does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u81	These are the approaches of each party. We can't say anything. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u82	I say that and I close, Mr President. Proof of the Prime Minister's value in Libya is the fact that the Italian Prime Minister, Mr Draghi, was also visiting the country at the same time. The Greek Prime Minister is doing nothing but pushing our national interests forward and closing down like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u83	Please, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. To start my position by reminding me, as other colleagues have done, that today is World Health Day. It is today the day that everyone is trying to be involved in the public health system for hospitalisation, for ICU, for vaccinations. It is today the day that everyone shows respect or some others applaud from the balconies the fighters workers in health, the people who give themselves, the sick, the sick themselves, to offer salvation to all of us. It is today the day, at the same time, where the right to health has been transformed into terror in this country, because almost one out of seven seamless people are looking for a bed in intensive therapy. That's the situation. When a village is lost on a daily basis, some others walk around the flower shops, baptisms, some are vaccinated off-line. This is the situation in public health. So today we must all remember and fight for the great values of health and what society really needs, namely public, universal, free and quality access for all to health. At the same time, it is a day when there is a great deal of reaction on the people's markets from producers and sellers, but also with the support of consumers. Why is that so? Because the bill which the Ministry of Development has been consulting for some time, Mr Minister, for the first time breaks consumer relations on the one hand with producers and retailers of people on the other, which have been forged for over a hundred years, relationships of confidence, quality and price relations. With this bill that the Ministry consults, it tries to turn producers into entrepreneurs, it tries to turn participation into a popular and position. Fortunately, under the enormous reactions - and Mr PPP, who has been put back - we will see this in the final form if the ideas prevail - the first version of the draft law, which gave the possibility of PPP, of privatising the people's markets, that is to say, taking management from the municipalities and regions and instead of moving a step forward towards self-organisation, attempted to turn a step backwards towards dependence on private operators on the people's markets, that is, things that I think go beyond all logic. However, despite your intentions, Minister, which you have in fact made with the regulation you have brought, you are listening to some things - not all, we will talk about them - we are living a government, which is a government of decline, contradictions and direct awards. It is a decline, because we see that half of the government is in the hands of people of Lifestyle who are threatening ministers, who are transformed, reshaped. We see state violence even in thirteen-year-olds. We see cement in the Acropolis and it's not over. Also, do we see the framework changes for wind turbines and wind turbines planted everywhere for the benefit of whom? The environment, culture or the inhabitants? None of them. In Mani, in this case, which is an area, first, traditional, second, NATURA and, third, Ramsar, there was the forecast from 2017 of the Ministry of Culture that wind turbines should not be installed when there is visual contact with traditional settlements. So the Ministry, Mrs Mendoni, has calmed him, so the installation of wind turbines is being released. But we're going further. You are working on pandemic so that you can go straight ahead with direct assignments, without any, but no procedure, with the culmination of those made by Mrs Nikolaos, who has attempted what your own party is well aware of over time: the assignments by opaque procedures. So society is really following your decisions and things in order not to believe that it is possible to create common sense through your political decisions. Even the people - traditional layers - who trusted you and trusted you are embarrassed. They can't believe what's happening. There is no reaction that does not cause the spontaneous reaction. So, after culture, universities, youth, entrepreneurs with incomplete support, public health, you are trying to level workers. The bill, which is being prepared by the Ministry of Labour, goes on to a huge disorganization of work by abolishing collective agreements, by removing eight hours by transferring working time whenever the employer wants. It's a huge setback to work, and the years of these memorials have not been hurt. I think you deceive yourself if by controlling the media, with the crusts right and left to the professionals, with the constant targeting of counterpopulation, with restrictions on democratic freedoms and escalating police immunity, you will control the wrath of the people and youth. But we are going to agriculture, Mr Minister, Mr Secretaries, ladies and gentlemen. Farmers, fishermen and farmers are on the verge of economic disaster this year. I imagine your messages arrive from all over Greece. They cannot wait for the Recovery Fund and you should explain that to them. Other projects and not support are financed from the Recovery Fund, such as right and left, and various people come out and share money and promises. That is why we should be clear when you are more or less directing major projects with public-private partnerships, bringing up the cost of using them for the final consumers, namely farmers. Only 800 million is foreseen in the Recovery Fund, Minister, while for irrigation only 200 million, without State leverage and the same participation. Let me remind you that the Rural Development Programme in irrigation has incorporated thirty one major projects - we are talking about major projects, except those under 2 million which went through the regions - with a budget of EUR 450 million. The country needs to be shielded against climate change, and the fund is the golden opportunity that can become the tool of the country's armouring towards climate change. Speaking of climate change to say that this year we have lived one of the worst months, in March, in recent years, where after a mild and dry winter we have had very low temperatures within the month, ice. The trees that had gone on, especially tree crops, had a very big issue. This has worked - and you will see it in the next few years - the anomaly in the production and production of feed already taken up by feedingstuffs. So the ELGA, which should be next to the staff producers at this time, is dedicated either by retiring, by moving to other services at their request, or much more by judicial decision. They leave experienced workers with 10 years of pre-service without even having been cleansed up. We had put it to the previous Minister, who left it to evolve, left it to his fate without taking any initiative. He needs your immediate intervention. The OPEKEPE programme has also been mentioned by colleagues. It is in one of the most unprecedented situations - to call it polite - that the organization has ever lived. The succession of three presidents within a minimum period of time, direct awards, tenders that are being cancelled, a procedure that gives rise to great anxiety as to whether the IACC procedure will normally begin or be in front of unforeseen situations, because as you well know, the activation process of the IACC, subsidies, is time-specific. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the bill. It was a good opportunity for this bill to reach a consensus in order to get something good for farmers, the producers of the country. We welcome what has been said to you both by the bodies and by the committees, the threshold for introducing protection at EUR 500,000 from EUR 2 million for suppliers. It's a positive one. Many institutions have put this in place and the opposition and we, through the rapporteur from the first meetings, set it to be a key element in the draft law. But look at two things. Because this directive comes and how the directive came. Allow me, Mr President, to address a minute more, because this directive that came in 2019, on 17 April in particular, came from a great debate. On the Greek side, the permanent Greek delegation participated. So I've had the responsibility for guidance this time. There has been great efforts and, above all, there is no point in getting details, e-mail, etc. - what we have gained was flexibility, so that Member States can apply the strictest - if they wanted - this directive. That's what we've been calling you and we've been telling you from the beginning that you can and you need to take advantage of it. Because this directive is finally coming after many years and a constant increase in social and economic inequalities the last forty to correct and intervene in the state - it is state intervention, to know what we are talking about - so that the weakest in the negotiating relationship between producers and buyers can be protected. That is why we only welcome it from the outset. So the aim is to protect more those who are weak in this relationship. However, one point we would expect today was that point in Article 4, which actually cancels all effort and all philosophy. When Article 4 opens the big window where bilateral agreements between suppliers and buyers are, here you open a large window, so that we have lion relations and in the field of canceling the procedure. Also, our rapporteur and those who have spoken so far have criticised you for the committee and its responsibilities and the way in which it can work under Article 5. I will, however, close with the law - and Mr Apostleu spoke - 4492/2017 for having told us that it was not implemented. I have the information note, the one you have tabled, because it has some points to see here. What's he saying? It says that the application was opened to the debtors on 26 February 2019. So it was applied. What was it that didn't apply? The imposition of a fine. The imposition of fines had been postponed so that there was sufficient time to prepare all interested parties and services, of course. And what suggests the service? Does he recommend abolishing the law, as Mr Vorides did in practice? Oh, no. It proposes an amendment to you so that it becomes more operational, as was proposed to us by the working group which, in December 2018, adopted it and was able to do so. To close, Mr President, and I really thank you for the tolerance of time, I think it is a good opportunity to protect those who are most in need. I would again point out Article 4 and Article 5. These will determine our position in the final vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Arachovitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u87	Sure. One clarification would like the Minister to make. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u88	Mr Arachovitis, first of all I understand that you must also move within a specific party framework when you speak to the House. Thank you for the good news of the bill itself and for the way in which Parliament's dialogue has been conducted so far. I don't want to come back because I was placed before. I just want to make one comment on the law. I told you that we are aware of your good intention and also see the follow-up to your policy, since you come and vote for this bill. Let us close this debate with the past. I think the interest of our producers is in the future. First answer the question why you have not implemented for so long the law you have passed and then again discuss whether you want this to be the case for my predecessor's decision. With regard to the part of farmers' aid, which is a 24-hour-old agony for all of us in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, within the suffocating financial framework that the country has, we are trying to do our best and to support our fellow producers who are putting the most. Our aim is to throw a protection net as much as our finances allow us. In this context, 240 million direct payments and 186 million have been made through repayable advances. Another 46,761,000 are scheduled to be given now. These are the possibilities. Efforts continue and I understand that you have the same concerns. You're being transferred by your interlocutors. So do we. We're trying to find money on the night, as I told you. As far as OPEKEPE is concerned, I'm placed. I just want to point out that the commitment is given in relation to time. A total of 319 million has been allocated this year. So the organism works. I understand that you want to say it a little politically. Maybe you have your agony too. But he's working and he's doing his job right. They are scheduled for the next 352 million months. As far as the part of the Recovery Fund is concerned, I do not want to ask you the question and ask you to come and apologize for what projects for four and a half years at infrastructure level you have done in the guarantee systems and infrastructures in general in the agricultural sector. But in any case, I will be more in the future to tell you that we are open to proposals and to cooperation. I've told you many times in this House. I've told you in private. We want to work together because what we are interested in and I believe that it is also of interest to you to strengthen the infrastructure that has indeed been in place for many years. In this context, it is above - below 250 million anticipated which, with State aid, will amount to 1 billion. In relation to the projects placed in the Recovery Fund. It's not a little money. We all have to work together so they can be absorbed in time to catch a place. At the same time, there is the possibility that we can and will use all this money to find other actions, which may not have been covered. He can talk to you, too, Mr. Economou, who handles it, even more thoroughly afterwards. I think it's a good amount. I'm telling you, we have the possibility of increasing it. With regard to climate change it is indeed something that shocks us all and we are already working hard in this direction. We have discussed with Mr Kokkalis in the context of a question he has asked the House, which was very useful. We have found common places for how to deal with the part of climate change that concerns rural development that is desertification. I don't want to say it, but because you said it too, it would be nice to see what you did in the past few years left to God's mercy the case of desertification. In any case, however, we are currently building a committee working in this direction and you are welcome. As far as ELGA is concerned, there is an absolute household and you know it. It has been financed by the state budget. This year for the first time has the ability to pay in full and much faster than other years of what it had to be. Also - here is the good colleague from Larissa who can tell you - in the recent ice that comes every ten years or more, the representatives of ELGA were immediately in the fields as they are everywhere in Greece. There is a problem with mobility and we are trying to cover it. In any case, however, I think there is a very good job there. When I visited him and talked to the employees' representatives, we were in exactly the same direction. There is no question of privatization in the public markets. Class is trying to put the Department of Development in this piece. We have spoken and listened to the producers' representatives and I think we are in a good direction to a good deal of agreement. As far as Libya is concerned, I would like to say that we sincerely believe that it is right that Mr Mitsotakis went yesterday by accepting the invitation of the Libyan leader. It was essentially a resumption of bilateral relations. We want to support this attempt by new Libya to go to free elections. We want to support the neighboring country. We are being tied together by ties that have been forged particularly lately. The fight we are fighting coincides with what the United Nations and the European Union do. We want a Libyan free and democratic country that has no foreign troops and mercenaries on its territory. And in this direction I appreciate - and the circumstances have shown - that it was a good choice for the Prime Minister to go there. I think that the future will prove, as in the past months with the agreements made by the Greek Government at all levels in the Mediterranean, that this multi-dimensional foreign policy, which has a focus on peace and prosperity in our region, respect for international law and, of course, the promotion of Greek interests, will emerge again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy and immediately after Mrs Jackri from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall continue from where the Minister, Mr Lebanese, has just left it. We really had a frost in March in the Prefecture of Larissa, in the Municipality of Tempus, in the Municipality of Elassona with a total destruction of almonds and in apricots, peaches and other crops. But I have to say that the ELGA was really there, on the same day. Of course, these people will be compensated for the damage suffered. It's in the context of the regulation. People don't ask for compensation. Their point is not compensation. Their point is to produce. But unfortunately it is the fourth year in the last five years with total destruction. Mr Arachovitis, I have heard you talk about ELGA and the change of the regulation. And we agree to change the regulation, but at least don't you say it, let anyone else say it. You were four and a half years Minister, you had the government, so let anyone else who did not have the responsibility of changing the ELGA regulation. We agree to change the ELGA regulation, and it has no objection. But you can't say it. You said the same thing and you did the same thing with the blue fever. For four and a half years you said that you would compensate them, you left the government, New Democracy came, they were compensated by Mr Vorides as Minister for Rural Development and Food, and he did not have to, because five years had passed and the debt had been cancelled, and you have just become an anti-population question. Leave it now. I'm stopping here. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the world health day. I would like to wish my fellow doctors and all the health workers in the world many years, with health and power. This is the second year that this day is celebrating in the middle of a pandemic, and I think it will be the last. A great thank you to everyone who has been struggling for more than a year to keep the country standing. As regards the draft law, Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union refers to the unfair practices of undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain and aims to protect producers from unfair practices by operators. My region, Larissa, is the heart of the country's agricultural production and I know very well that the farmer who labours the land and the farmer who suffers 24 hours of suffering on his hand are on a daily basis vulnerable to great interests, traders, brokers and general buyers who have many millions of euros of cigarettes but who buy agricultural products cheaply, while also imposing restrictions on the producer. The European Union, looking at the risks faced by the primary sector, detects distortions in the supply chain and the impossible position of suppliers against buyers and tries to deal with practices that derogate from competition rules and run counter to good faith and the principle of trust in commercial operations. The present draft law defines ten cases of unfair practices in terms of buyers, which are prohibited under any conditions. In particular, in this draft law the producer must be repaid within 30 or 60 days of the agreed delivery dates for vulnerable or other agricultural products and foodstuffs respectively. It is not acceptable for the trader or businessman to have these products within seven or ten days, to collect cash and pay the producer after six or eight months. That's what's going on so far, and we all know that. It goes without saying that the producers, the small and medium-sized ones, should also, in fact, lend themselves to financing the businessmen or the owners of the supermarkets for six and eight months. In addition, the cancellation of orders without an early warning, the unilateral modification of terms, the trade retaliations, the requirement of compensation by the supplier for the examination of complaints shall be prohibited. Finally, there is a sound exploitation of the possibility for the businessman to buy products at an open price. With this bill all over. In addition, where there is no other agreement between the two sides, the following clauses shall be prohibited on the part of the buyer: the reimbursement of unsold products to the supplier without payment, the payment of the supplier to store or add products to the market, the withdrawal of the cost of deductions, promotion and advertising of products by the supplier, as well as the taking of costs for the personnel responsible for the layout of the premises where the supplier’s products are sold. Both cases of unfair practices and the versions of opaque clauses place order in the chain of production of agricultural products and foodstuffs. The final recipient, who is the consumer, is benefiting from these provisions, since the producers will not be charged with additional costs and will mainly be involved in improving the quality of production processes and final products. At the same time, rural governance is being strengthened by the creation of a supervisory structure, which will ensure the implementation of legislation. A committee is set up to combat unfair trade practices managed by the Legal Board of the State as Head and with members of Heads of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. It is a new institution, which will enhance overall the functioning of the agricultural market. This Committee will offer the affected producers and suppliers the opportunity to submit complaints, respecting confidentiality and collecting information on infringements which will be registered in a specific database in order to take faster measures to protect healthy competition. Through the new committee Greece will cooperate effectively with the other Member States of the Union and with the respective national authorities. Minister, on this occasion, I would like to ask for the exemplary punishment for the recent fidelity of feta which was found in Germany a few weeks ago, an event which discredits Greece and this unique PDO product, as well as the healthy Greek entrepreneurs. At the same time, it is particularly important that this legislation extends deadlines, alleviating the rural world. Firstly, the financing of the main occupation of farmers is being taken care of, since they belong to the pandemic affected and need liquidity. Thus, until 31 December 2021, the possibility of borrowing loans and loans from banks up to 25 thousand euros is extended without insurance information. Secondly, it is extended until the end of the year to allow for the use of agricultural land. In particular, each regional authority is allowed to grant until 31 December 2021 agricultural real estate which has remained unreserved to main occupation farmers or unemployed. Finally, the term of office of the administration of agricultural cooperatives is extended until 30 June 2021. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill that restores market distortions and protects farmers against large capital. At the same time, breath is given to the rural world with targeted regulations. Minister, I would like to congratulate you very much on your rapid legislative intervention in favour of farmers. I will tell you that you entered a very big and very difficult ministry on the right and I wish this difficult ministry you will continue to do so, as you have started. We are voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Mrs. Jackri has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Katrinis, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement will be followed. In the intervening period, however, I will give the floor to the State Secretary, Mr Kotsira, to put forward an amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfair trade practices are the main cause of the problems faced by farmers with regard to the commercial part of their production management. These practices, i.e. delays in payments, either the obstacles to access to the market, or even the unilateral and subsequent retrospective changes in contract terms and, in particular, the harmonized practices in terms of producer prices, have the effect of ultimately showing lower incomes for farmers than expected, especially for enterprises which do not have a strong market position. Unfair commercial practices, therefore, distort competition, have a negative impact on the economy as small and medium-sized enterprises find it difficult to invest and innovate and potentially discourage their plans to expand their activities throughout the market. This whole debate, therefore, has led the European Union to begin its efforts to legislate against unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain ten years ago, precisely because the weak negotiating position of the farmer in the food chain has been understood, compared in particular with the other parties involved in the production process, so that the law of the strong man prevails, and at the end of the day the farmer cannot benefit from the share of the added value he deserves. The objectives of the directive therefore concern the reduction of unfair trade practices arising from this patient, the unequal trading position of farmers in the food supply chain, in order to stabilise the market, strengthen farmers' incomes and, above all, improve the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. So what we should do is to make the maximum use of the provisions of this directive and protect farmers who are in any way attempting in the supply chain. But what does this bill do, after all? Does it achieve this? The directive laid down the general framework, namely the philosophy of the legislator, that there should be a minimum harmonisation of the Member States without adversely affecting the national systems already in place and operating in some countries, such as the Scandinavian countries, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. However, it has enabled some Member States that wanted it to introduce stricter rules. The Greek objections were also mentioned, since throughout the hearing there was a permanent position in our country that the entire food supply chain should be covered, i.e. all suppliers and buyers should be covered by this scope regardless of its size. And I'm explaining. About the scope of what do we see? We see a copy of the directive without any prior adaptation to Greek data and a stratification of entrepreneurship, which I do not really know and who serves at the end. It is in the positive direction, Minister, the legislative improvement you have brought, with which you have essentially dissolved the grey zone that was in existence for purchasers with a turnover of up to EUR 2 million, which, before your intervention, was outside the scope of the directive, as you can see, because I think that the minimum purpose of this directive should be to have uniform rules for payments in all categories of persons involved in this process. With regard to the definition of the principle or principles which will impose sanctions, however, Minister, what is provided for in the draft legislation, as we see here, incorporating this directive? The Competition Committee and a five-member committee are provided for in the Ministry of Rural Development. And I really ask you: Are you intending to implement this bill? Do you think that these bodies that have no administrative support from behind them with a service structure can accept and investigate complaints, impose sanctions, form reports and communicate reports and reports? In no case. Let's be reasonable. That, Minister, has also been demonstrated by the hearing of the bodies, where the farmers there have told you that if you want to have an effective bill, if you want it to be implemented in practice. You need to ensure that you build a service structure that supports this bill and do not throw it into the list that imports can be restricted so that they do not work in a compensatory manner in which attempts are made to curb unfair commercial practices. In view of the above, let me say that we are seeing a bill which is more interoperable, because we really have an obligation to incorporate this directive, which is 633/2019. I think, however, that we have an example of bad legislation before us. Look, Minister, I come from an area where unfair commercial practices take and give. I am thinking both of cotton and of the peach complex, which has as their final recipient the industry. I would even say that the industry is their only buyer, it is almost a one-way street. Every year, with regard to the disposal of crushed peaches, there are problems because of the low prices offered by the industry, namely canning, with a variety of arguments either allegedly overproduction or the low quality or the stocks of previous years, so that farmers cannot enjoy prices which they have, Minister, many times even the cost of production regardless of the quality they have. The aim of the industry, as we understand it, is to limit its operating costs to increase its profitability in any case. And we are talking about a final product, such as the peach can, which is exclusively of an export character and brings a national currency of 250 million to 300 million a year and also has a dominant position in the world market. Here, therefore, these business behaviours of the industry's potential would be limited. Do you think that this bill limits these practices? I'm really going to answer that no. This directive was decided by a committee with great difficulty, and I would say that it was given as a gift for the continuing reductions in the resources of the common agricultural policy and we should make better use of it. Now on this occasion, let me ask you three, four things, which are very important and relevant to the news. The first concerns the new common agricultural policy and the question raised about the historical nature of rights and the internal convergence of rights, because, as you can see, it will effectively determine the direct aid to be granted from 2021 to 2027, that is, the new programming period. The second question I would like to ask you and all my colleagues have concerns the OPEKEPE. You know we have the resignations of two Presidents, we have an end to the computer system, the cancellation of the international tender for the supply of the computer system, and there is indeed a very great concern about the applications that will be made this year, in 2021 and the payment of aid if it is really unreasonable and without problems for producers in 2021. The third problem I would like to highlight is the very great problem with the icebergs, which concerns my constituency, Pella. Decay is particularly extensive in tree crops throughout the country. Look, the Ministry must take care to ensure that all damage to trees which are extensive and universally covered. You know that the regulation has problems. I think that with the appropriate political will from the Ministry of Rural Development, problems will be overcome. And the fourth thing I would like to put to you, of course, is that the Minister is not here, but I imagine he will hear it - the new legal framework for people's markets. Look, I do not know what other co-legislative ministers who are not elected in rural areas, but I really would like to give a friendly advice - a recommendation to the Minister for Rural Development that is elected in such a rural area not to actually connect its name to the disappearance of agricultural producers and their replacement with posters who, with a dirt-saving, will sell all of agricultural products. Because what Mr Simopoulos said earlier about the match of the tomato of the 1980s, I am very afraid, Minister, that the struggle will be resumed this time too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. Mr Kotsira has the floor now to develop the amendment. Mr Katrinis and then the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Yiannis Economou, will take the floor. Here, Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I am addressing this House in relation to the amendment with a general number of 831 and a specialist of 29 of the Ministry of Justice. With regard to this provision and Article 1 provides for an interpretative provision for the resumption of legal and judicial deadlines and for that arrangement to be made in the true sense of Article 83 of Law No4790/2021 as the date of expiry of the measure of the temporary suspension of the country's civil courts for the purposes of calculating legal and judicial delays, the date of the suspension of time-limits, which expired on 26 March of the Common Ministerial Decision, i.e. 6 April 2021. This proposed regulation becomes necessary for legal certainty on the grounds of the initiation and expiry of legal and judicial delays. In relation to Article 2 of the same amendment, with the proposed regulation, legal holidays for the current judicial year ending on 15 September 2021 shall begin on 1 July 2021 and end on 31 August 2021. The purpose of the arrangement is to address the consequences of the suspension of the operation of the courts and prosecutors throughout the territory due to the CIVID -19 pandemic, which created a number of cases which have not been dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u95	Mr Katrinis, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor. Then, as I said, Mr Yiannis Economou, the State Secretary for Rural Development, will take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 7 April and the Greek citizens expected to go to pharmacies and obtain the self-tests, which had been widely advertised as a safe method of effectively tracking the pandemic. Unfortunately, they were waited for a surprise, because instead of ready-made kits there were twenty-five, instead of individual packs, the pharmacists had to make them themselves so they could supply and all this created a sense of irrationality, you would allow me to say, and irritation, both to citizens and to health professionals. And I think the much-advertised self-test method is suffering if we see the announcement of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association. I will just say one point: 'Infectious waste should be managed by the self-control procedure in accordance with the relevant Directives of the European Union'. That's why there's no official placement. When one does the test and diagnoses that he's positive to COVID, what is he doing with the kit and the material? Where's he throwing it? Is he throwing it in the trash? That's not what we say, the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association says. Will you tell me, is this the only area in which the government is irreorganizing and passing this feeling of a mess? I think not. The dominant feeling, no matter how hard those who are still supporting Mr Mitsotakis and the government, is that the government has failed to manage the pandemic, both in terms of the heavy epidemiological picture, the tiredness of the citizens and the failure to strengthen the public health system. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] But there is also another issue that is now causing public opinion and citizens, and that is fairness and incontinence, let me say, by some ministers, who obviously, in their agonizing efforts to show a friendly person, are making assessments of air elements, even replacing the Committee on Infectiouss and the Minister for Health himself. In fact, the Minister of State is in danger of banning himself as "Passer holiday minister" or "Minister with responsibility for Easter" by saying day rather than day that travel will be allowed, how travels will be allowed and all 15, twenty days before the critical period. I don't know if Mr. Gerapitris has any divination skills. But it is certainly also confusion and irritation, and it would be a good thing to put a barrier to this. Bandy on the popular markets as well. We just came from the meeting at the Ministry of Development. It is a great inconvenience, especially to producers, but also to a large part of the traders, to the conflicting provisions of the bill. It's a bill that hasn't come up for consultation. We hear a week but a week that changes, based on the wishes of certain professional classes involved in folk. There is no official text. There are leaks. There are some who go out to the media saying "what a good thing the bill is", because it ensures their own side and not a whole society of professionals in the people's markets, and there is obviously a good fear that the social character of the people's markets will be altered, with a visible risk to the social classes that are currently finding refuge and disposing of people's markets. And was it only what shows the government's irreorganizational image? Let's go to the forest maps. Aron - the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers yesterday made announcements to reassure the public that he reacted. An extension of the time limit of the objections for six months has been announced and a reduction of 50% of the evil has been announced. Indeed, the Minister responsible, Mr Skrekas, tells us reassuringly that 'we will correct errors without any difficulty for the citizen, by internal procedure and wait for citizens to correct the obvious errors'. Yes, sir! But the government and the Minister responsible have not told us that for twenty-one months, since July 2019, the procedures for examining objections to forest maps have been frozen. We are not told by the government because, for a year now, the composition of the committees has changed and the composition of the committees has not been established. Is that what's to blame for? Is it the previous government? Is it because of the Change Movement, which, for a year now, the law brought by the government, had not implemented it in practice? And, of course, he did not answer whether he would be able to provide the committees with forestists from other regions of Greece. For example, there are hundreds of thirty forestists in Thessaloniki. In general, northern Greece finds forestologists. We in Elijah have five forestists and twelve thousand objections to be considered for twenty-one months. And the Minister comes out and says not to worry about the citizens. Yes, sir. It did not, however, make it clear whether all of this was about the forest maps recently posted or also about the registered maps on which they have been objected. We asked a question and Mr Amyras' reply yesterday says that the right to submit objections is also for maps that are validated. And be careful. Is this all going to consider who? Destroyed forest services, which have so far been unable to respond to their already confirmed work? And Mr Skrekas goes out and says: "Don't worry, all of them will be solved by the forest services", which for twenty-one months have been moving towards turtle rhythms, and they have no objections, because they have no staff, they have not been expected to be staffed by staff, but, otherwise, they have all been well. The government does not tell us what is happening with the posting of administrative reafforestation and settlement decisions. They weren't posted. What about the lands that were resurrected, but were they finally declassified? What about the areas on the perimeter of eight hundred meters? In our area, in the Prefecture of Elias, 17% of the land has been posted. And, of course, it does not tell us what is going on with forests which have been evacuated since the Council of State and which have been frozen. In all of this, it came yesterday and the annual report by the ESS reminds us that reality in the economy is not at all pleasant. The number of enterprises identified as threatened has doubled. Four out of ten are threatened by losing revenue and debts. The companies excluded from the Recovery Fund continue to be strangled on the basis of the conditions of financing the investments and loans to be provided, like the primary sector, we consider that they are deafening from the Recovery Fund and we have not been given a convincing answer as to whether it is interconnected with either the NSRF or the Rural Development Programme. We have not heard anything about the restructuring of farms, nor about the shapes of young farmers cooperatively, and how these will be financed, but only general and vague references by Mr. Skolakakis to irrigation projects, without specialising in how and whether these costs will be passed on to users, namely farmers. As far as the economy is concerned, I think it is a bell yesterday's report by the Governor of the Bank of Greece, which talks about the risk of closure of businesses, with visible consequences both on the market and on the economy and on jobs, but also on public revenues. Obviously the government is not moved by this, nor is it also moved by its encouragement to create a bad bank, a bad bank, which will gather all the loans. Why? Why do government ministers say what? What we have reduced, he says, the red loans. This is the permanent inclination by the government, that it has been reduced by 60 billion. In fact, we heard it last week by the Minister of Finance at a meeting which took place on the occasion of the increase in Piraeus Bank's share capital, where the critical General Meeting of shareholders is being held today. Is it true, ladies and gentlemen, that the red loans of 60 billion have been reduced and that we have not received any news? Or did 60 billion were transferred to the funds and to the services, to follow the tsunami of seizures and auctions, on the basis of the previous decision, which, as from 1 June, starts the implementation of the Banking Code, without any protection measures and without social and economic criteria? According to Mr Stournara, only one out of five non-performing loans has been set. On the basis of a previous report by the Bank of Greece, six out of ten arrangements are rekindled within a quarter. Will you tell me what this has to do with the bill we're discussing today? But it has to do with it, because the primary sector has been treated by the government since the beginning of pandemic as unaffected. No suspension of payments of bank loans and liabilities, no suspension of insurance, tax obligations for people in the primary sector. You yourself were forced to bring on Christmas Eve an amendment to make it irresponsible for compensation to farmers and farmers because, at the time, you found that a large majority of farmers and farmers owes banks, IRS, insurance funds, so that these compensations would be in danger of being seized. You are doing the same today with Article 19 of this bill, where you are rightly prolonging the need to produce insurance information for access to loans of up to 25 thousand euros from banks. But since we are talking about access for producers to banks to obtain loans so that they can grow, when will the OSCE's statements be opened? What about OPEKEPE? Because, I understand, farmers cannot go to the banks if the statements have not been made. Based on what official belief, that they do need them for cultivation, will they go and make use of this provision? Why, indeed, Mr Minister, have you found and continued this procedure of direct awards to the OPEKEPE, while there were competitive procedures and negotiation procedures and while you know that all these procedures that you adopt will be brought to the courts? What about the objections submitted since the December payment? Approximately 15% of producers are waiting to pay back obligations. You are currently paying late and lazy compensation. We have at least seen it in the products that concern me, not only my constituency, but also in the rest of Greece. We have a document from the Ministry on 28 December 2020 which refers to compensation totalling EUR 292 million. I would like to ask if all the money Mr Stavuras gave you last year has been used up. I also want to ask you whether you can tell us directly here at the National Representation what amount you have budgeted for compensation to the primary sector due to COVID in 2021 and what categories of producers waiting - and waiting for a long time - will be compensated. We are therefore discussing the incorporation of the new directive. We have already taken a positive stand with the comments made by our rapporteur, Apostolis Panas. But you will allow me to tell you, gentlemen of the government, that you have also been late in this matter. I have here the answer on 20 December 2019 from the Ministry of Rural Development, which, while putting the blame on the previous government - and rightly it shoots them, has done nothing to combat unfair practices - says that they have already begun the process of incorporating the directive. We're talking 15 months ago. And you come here today 15 months later to incorporate a directive into sixteen articles and they are all really missing. Farmers, livestock farmers, colleagues in this Chamber are excluded. Why did it have to be 15 months or more to integrate this directive? Because if we are so late in integration, I fear that the reason for concern is correct and for the time in which this directive is implemented, which really gives solutions and aspires to combat the issue of unfair practices affecting the primary sector, particularly the weakest farmers and farmers. Of course, it is necessary not to open housekeepers such as those who have opened up to countries which have incorporated the directive, such as Spain, and which have given rise to the introduction of thinly imported products from third countries, precisely because there are no such commitments for the repayment period, the smallest and the most suffocating ones. In addition, provision should be made for the creation of an administrative mechanism supporting the work of combating unfair practices. You will allow me to say that the Competition Committee is under-represented. But, judging from the time of reaction to the question of bank charges, for which we have been waiting for over a year and a half to give us a finding and a result, I fear that we cannot have too many ambitions from there. I conclude with the question of the concession of agricultural parcels, which I think is in Article 18, which is right. It is right to extend the concession for the use of agricultural land. Mr Minister, you will allow me, however, to say - and this insults the National Representation - that your parties have been rushed to announce it, at least in my own constituency, before you bring the amendment. I'm tabling the relevant report. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Vice-President for Rural Development - I say this because we are in the same region as the Minister, Mr Lebanese - is calling before the official position of the Minister and before the official tabling of an amendment, what we are discussing today. This should concern you and, at some point in time, the logic of micro-political action that refers to us at other times. It is therefore right to extend the concession. But, Minister, we have discussed this in private at some point to review Law 4061/2012 and the criteria on which these public areas are granted. A lead must finally be given to young farmers who are in the region on the basis of localisation, who want to invest in their area and cannot be captive and hostage every year of the concession extension and fight, press local players, MPs and the ministry to give extensions. We also have to assess some time, and these unemployed people to whom the land is granted, that is to say check whether they are actually using it to get away from unemployment or simply subsidize them and remain unemployed. So areas should be given to those who live in the area, are interested in cultivating and interested in investing in the primary sector, which I think no one disagrees in this Chamber that it should be an integral and leading element of a new production model for the reconstruction of the country. I fear, despite your intentions and the Minister's intentions and overall leadership, that in the government, at least as shown by the priorities of the Recovery Fund, the primary sector is not at the forefront. Alas, if in the new page that opens for the country, which we want for economic reasons, and for the sake of food self-sufficiency, we have a strong, self-powered, powerful primary sector, we now do not give the support that should be given to people who are affected and the incentives to be able to grow in our country for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. We will now give the floor to the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Giannis Economou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural sector in Greece has always been a strong factor in growth and employment at national and regional level. In fact, at times when the Greek countryside was growing from life, during the times when each village had its own school agriculture was the main pillar of the Greek economy. So let us see what is happening today and what is the potential of the agri-food industry, as we see it, at the threshold of the next day. Today, despite the fact that the primary sector has never lost its potential and its potential, it is generally accepted - I think we all agree - that it presents a lot of considerable scope for further improvement, as it has a number of unexploited advantages: our products are of high nutritional and quality value, our climate and the country's natural environment are special and Greek producers are charismatic. Of course, it's not all about us black or white. In Greece there are several agricultural enterprises, cooperative organisations, producer groups operating in an exemplary way, I would say, have found the channels for handling their high quality products in foreign markets and efficiently exploit all support programmes. These examples, ladies and gentlemen, show us the way, confirming the dynamics of the agricultural sector in Greece, while at the same time proving that Greek farmers are not doomed to drift into the peninsula with them in the past. In order not to be confined to avoidance, however, it is clear to us that there is another aspect, the aspect that we have to deal with, that of pathogens and problems. What's that look? It is the great fragmentation of agricultural holdings, the inefficient organisation, the low integration of new technologies and equipment, the unfavourable age and educational structure of human resources, the limited research and its dissemination in the development of agricultural holdings, the great dependence on subsidies and the lack of a structured strategic planning for the effective promotion of Greek food products, which will make the many small victories we have in product categories in a great national victory in terms of our products. Treatment or mitigation of these problems is therefore the necessary move to unlock the dynamics of the sector in an international environment in which the prospects for our products are seen positively. So how will this be done? It will be through policies that can push Greek agriculture to make the big leap, not today, but tomorrow. At the Ministry of Rural Development we have chosen this difficult path, namely not to use ourselves in a management logic, not to leave things about what they were, but to implement a strategic plan that will put the brakes on these distortions, it will respond to the need for immediate support for disasters and crises, such as, for example, the Krone crisis - I will say a few words about it then - and it will invest in the reconstruction of the agricultural sector in substance. We choose in a few words, ladies and gentlemen, to see the forest and not to rot in front of the tree, because I think that's the key. Because we believe that the Greek farmer can be a protagonist in the new productive model of the national economy and will be through these policies. It will be wondered where our beliefs are based that it is now time to change page, that is to say, to move from management logic to more substantial changes and bring the future to our fields. How, in a moment of a global crisis, an unprecedented crisis that creates problems everywhere, which also raises the agricultural sector, we can aspire to changing substantially and drastically many things in the productive model. Today we have the financial instruments from the Recovery Fund, from the new CAP, since the mid-term period. At the same time, we have a accumulated experience of how these financial instruments are operated in the past and of the distortions that have been braked and, above all, we have the political will, a desire that characterises the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis as a whole, to move forward with what it needs to make the primary sector extinction and innovative. Our main aim is to use the new orientation of the common agricultural policy as far as possible and to harmonise it on the structural features, needs, requirements and weaknesses of the Greek agricultural sector. In this context, we have already called for a series of measures which respond to many of the objections, anguishs and questions raised by the opposition, that is, if there is programming, if there is funding, if there is substantial support for the primary sector and the Greek producer. In particular, we proceeded with the pre-publishment of the measure by agricultural consultants of EUR 80 million, which concerns at least thirty-five thousand farmers. We continued with the pre-publishment of the Youth Farmers' Programme - the announcement in September - will be made at a much higher cost than that of the past, which will be over 350 million euros. We continue the coming period with the measure on organic farming, with radical changes that will substantially add value to the product produced and with much more money. We are moving on with the small improvement plans for irrigation. We are already working on the measure for the new improvement plans that will coincide with the call for young farmers to be given access to further funding. We continue with measures for afforestation, for nitrates, to provide guarantees and micro-credits through the transition period of PAA to Greek producers. We continue with the planning and implementation of actions from the development programme under the "ELLADA 2.0" project presented by the Prime Minister. What are we doing there? This is why various things have been heard here in the Chamber, many of which are not really based. We have got a lot of optimistic interventions that, as the Minister said earlier, will reach EUR 1 billion. These improvements respond to the needs of large infrastructure projects throughout the country to make more rational use of the most valuable natural resource for agriculture that is water. Yes, projects had been scheduled for the previous period by the Rural Development Programme, about 450 million, involving thirty - thirty - one projects. Unfortunately, it has not yet been completed and nothing has been achieved. I am not talking about either in the criticism of what went wrong or opposed to the previous government. I say that we should be concerned about how to deal with the distortions that are guaranteed funding and integration, making the projects not complete, not even beginning. We therefore need to address these distortions, identify them and find other implementation models that will ensure their timely delivery to the final beneficiaries. Can I tell you about things we've met with the Minister and the Minister of State in assessing the course of these projects? Should I tell you about projects that have been integrated into the building of water tanks and dams, and the networks that will take them from the dam to the field have not been provided for in the studies? We are talking about huge failures that pay them - now let the cost of not carrying out the project and the micro-political criticism made many times - by the Greek producer. It pays the Greek state a lot of money for projects that provide for the construction of a dam and has not been planned to take the water from the dam to the field. So all this is something that we need to look at and deal with really and realistically, taking advantage of the experience of the programmes throughout the past period, but at the same time putting innovations and changes, which will ensure that we do not have inconveniences, hit the opportune approach of some who want to make use of the programmes and, above all, support those who have decided to identify their lives with the Greek countryside. The Recovery Fund has also included forecasts for funding other very important actions for the restructuring of crops. There is a huge question of the restructuring of crops in the Greek productive sector. It's not simple. One must study it, plan it and secure resources that will finance the transition stage of people who have to leave crops that are deadlocked and go to something else that will guarantee them continuity and sustainability. And we forecast these through the Recovery Fund, as we also predict the financing of large investment projects for cooperative schemes, that is, the entire value chain, producers, cooperatives and yes, private companies. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, it is clear that we are applying a wide range of protection and equality to every Greek farmer. In other words, we amplify those who are at the base of the pyramid, the foundation of production, the foundation of economic activity. There is no need to be an expert to understand that the main issue of farmers is their little negotiating power in this process. In the draft law we are debating today - and I wish to be optimistic that it will be very welcome after the adoption by the Minister of State for many of the proposals and by the rapporteur for Co-Population and the rapporteurs for Reconciliation - we incorporate a European directive that actually increases negotiating capacity and cooperative logic, protects the consumer and ultimately strengthens the efforts of farmers to be able to plan in the long term. In short, the draft law reflects how we treat the primary sector. We are dealing with the primary sector as a link from the field to the barn, to the processing, to standardisation, to the suffering of price negotiations and ultimately to the end of the plate or to the consumer's basket. Secondly, we prove in practice that every tool of Union or national law is used in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to put order where any distortions are observed. Five issues, I think, are the most comprehensive of the bill: vulnerable products will be repaid in thirty days. The payment condition is not implied by the post-paid cheque on the repayment, but by the repayment in full. There is a substantial institutional barrier to the open-price gangrene. Provision is made for the definition of the products to be applied, other than those which are inaccurate, to be subject to the Directive in question. There are agreements now for all actions and nothing is left in the air. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] There are two very important amendments. The amendment on the possibility of regions assigning the tacos to the temporary broker does not waste time until the process has been completed which can have disastrous effects on olive cultivation and, secondly, the possibility of granting credits without the guarantee. I shall conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by answering Mr Katrin's questions and other colleagues from opposition. The Minister mentioned earlier, and I would like to say it again and to be recorded in the Minutes. In 2020, Mr Katrin, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government gave Greek producers EUR 240 million. Refunded EUR 186 million has been granted to ninety thousand producers. In 2021, 46,761,000 euros have been allocated to date. This whole number makes us 472,760,000 euros. We all know that all primary products, less or more, have been affected by the history of COVID, due to the limitation of exports, due to the closure of the focus on Greece and the whole world, due to a series of such side-losses of pandemic. We are constantly working on all the proposals, all the requests and documentation. It is an extremely complex and difficult attempt, because it must be within the limits of European regulations, so that we do not live unpleasant adventures, and in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the relevant ministers, within the limits of the country's budgetary resilience. It is a dynamic debate and an exercise. We are trying to secure resources to support the Greek producer, the Greek farmer who continues and is affected. However, no one can deny that close to half a billion euros have been allocated to support the primary sector to date. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is up to all of us, consistently and firmly, to continue to lay the foundations for the primary sector in our country to play its part in the development and transformation of the productive model of Greece. There are possibilities ahead of us. The tools are up to us. We are open to discussion and proposals from the whole range of parliamentary parties, always for the benefit of Greek production, the Greek producer, for a resilient primary sector that will ensure the sustainability and increase of income to Greek farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We shall now give the floor to Mr Stamenitis Dionysios from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on unfair commercial practices in relations between businesses in the agricultural and food supply chain and obviously 'other provisions'. It is about incorporating the relevant European Directive 633/2019 into Greek law, which comes in order to protect the producer - supplier from the imbalances observed in his relations with the buyers of his products. It is a fact that one of the main issues that agitates the rural world and creates a sense of insecurity and uncertainty to Greek producers, is that of the absence of a specific framework that regulates these issues, sets rules and creates security. And I come here to join the position of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Lebanese, who rightly stressed during the drafting of the bill in committee that the Government of New Democracy, as a liberal and reformist government, is clearly in favour of the free market, but which is governed by rules and justice. To be specific, we are not talking about protectionism. But what we are defending today in this draft law is to avoid distortions and to respect competition rules. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as has been extensively analysed and I believe it has become clear, with the legislation we are discussing today, we are putting a definitive end to a great and long-term injustice, an injustice - a source of insecurity and uncertainty for Greek producers. Arrangements that correct significant imbalances in the negotiating power between suppliers and purchasers of agricultural products and foodstuffs are therefore introduced. The main and perhaps the most important regulation of the present is the provision of payment of surplus products in thirty days and other agricultural products in sixty. Undoubtedly, one of the biggest problems for producers is that of the long delays in the repayment of the products. And to say here that these practices, which, unfortunately, are common and tend to become rules, do not only affect the producer's personal budget. In addition to the serious problems posed by its economic survival and the needs of its household, it is limited to a number of other actions such as programming, long-term planning, investment potential and upgrading of its products, issues that in turn affect the entire primary sector and create obstacles to its development. I also note that the draft law concerns all natural and legal persons involved in the agricultural supply chain, including those processed as food products. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's debate it is worth noting that, from July 2019 until today, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food coordinated and designing a large programme aimed at radically changing the landscape in the agri-food sector. The Government of Nea Demoaatic Republic has since the beginning set as the main objective the emergence of the primary sector as one of the main levers for the development of the Greek economy, as well as for the productive reconstruction of the country, a design that never ceased despite the great difficulties of the coronary. On the other hand, along with the important legislative initiatives aimed at modernising the agricultural and livestock sectors, including the current Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, implements an important programme of direct payments aimed at addressing the consequences of the pandemic. It is true that the occurrence of the health crisis with the spread of COVID -19, caused many problems and disturbed the balances of the production process. We have come up with problems, which, even if we were concerned with the loose ends that we had to deal with, were certainly not vital issues. It is sufficient to think, ladies and gentlemen, that for two consecutive growing seasons, separate legislation was required to ensure the workers' hands for the harvesting of products. Does anyone realize what impact the producers' productions and incomes would have on the inability to harvest products? From my personal experience, I will tell you that in Pella there has really been a race to resolve the issue. And this is credited by the Ministry's leadership. I am referring to this example, because it is good to understand the size of the problems, so that we can understand the value and importance of their solution each time. The same applies to ELGA. It is also credited to the Ministry of Rural Development that producers are now paying 100% of their compensation with the first payment, after 35,000, 000 were paid from the state budget for the first time since 2011 to ELGA. A number of substantial compensation was also granted to other products due to COVID, such as asparagus, amnofilions, potatoes, cucumbers, following. I am referring to the productions that exist in Pella. And, of course, I see the response of the Ministry and the ELGA to the damage we had from the frost on 25 and 26 March. The announcement was made and the statements started. Obviously, we will call for similar behaviour and treatment with what has been done with the 'January', that is to say to see the possibility of payment and an increase in the limit as we have significant damages, which are from a natural disaster. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with today's draft law, as well as with the response to the small and great challenges facing the primary sector in our country, it turns out in practice that the core of all political decisions and strategic planning concerning the primary sector lies with our producers. Their support, their protection and the provision to them of all the necessary tools to enable them to develop, are a firm and irresistible pursuit of this government and of the Ministry's leadership. If we consider, therefore, that there is no political force in the Greek Parliament that is not in favour of producers, then voting in favour of this draft law by all opposition and Parliament parties is a good opportunity to prove it in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u101	We will now give the floor to the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mrs Arabaji Fotini.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree in this Chamber that the New Democracy is the main party that believes in the free market - one of the fundamental principles of our resignation - together, of course, with social justice. However, the more we believe in the free market, the more we believe in healthy competition and respect for the rules, because it cannot mean a free market. And that is, if you will, the first symbolisation of this bill we are discussing today in plenary. The party that believes openly and clearly in the free market is the one that lays rules for its proper functioning in order to improve the service of society as a whole, but also to support the weak link in the value chain of agri-food products, which is not otherwise, usually by the producer. But there is also a second interesting symbolism, a second message. The New Democracy is the party that supports and promotes the model of the farmer - businessman, the farmer who produces on the basis of the needs of the market, the farmer - to remember the old position of the Israelis - who first sells and then produces. To this end, the proper functioning of the market is aware that it is of even greater importance. After all, this is not only our position, but it is the common component of the European Union's opinions, where in the last decade there has been an in-depth debate on this issue. Watching the European Commission's 2014 communication on dealing with unfair trade practices in the supply chain and the report of the so-called Sage Committee on Agriculture entitled 'Strengthening the position of farmers in the supply chain' in November 2016 and, of course, the processes and discussions that followed until the directive is adopted. I remember, of course, Mr Apostleus' L. 4492/2017. I was a rapporteur for the opposition at the time. I'm going to stand by this law for two reasons. Firstly, because there was a lot of discussion from the opposition, from SYRIZA's favourite rapporteur, Mrs Pulou, and, of course, from the spiritual father of this bill, the former Minister, Mr Apostle himself. And second and foremost, because the New Democracy also has political continuity and consistency in its views. So, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, you are breaking open doors when you talk about the need to regulate unfair practices in the government which, as your opposition, led to the incorporation of essential necessary regulations into the other, from the result judged, inapplicable by you themselves No 4492/2017. And I explain: Mr Apostlelos spoke of a law - an arsenal of unfair practices, the obligation to pay within sixty days of producers from wholesalers, including supermarkets. You stressed this, Mr President-in-Office, both in your speeches in committee and today in plenary, very well and very well in this consensus climate, which is always for the benefit of producers. However, with this consensus, it does not mean that the story is deleted. He forgot to say that it was the New Democracy, which then with repeated positions, interventions and suggestions in committee, even in plenary, I remember our discussions with the former Minister - you were obliged, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to expressly mention the inclusion of supermarkets, retail shops, which are the part of the buyer's lion, and therefore it was necessary to include them in the protection of producers, because it was simply the original bill, which I have here in my hands, which did not exclude. If we look at the concept of a trader, the current buyer, we read: 'Every natural or legal person having an obligation to register in the single register of traders of agricultural products'. That's what you were saying, but in this register they had no obligation to register supermarkets. Then, from our successive speeches, you come and make the notion of trader any natural or legal person buying, processing and brokering for the purpose of wholesale or retailing, in other words supermarkets. So you are violating open doors, because we were the ones to force you and something else, equally important, to put in the list of protected products - I quote, because Mr Apostlelos said today that there is no such table, and there is a direct reference - a very important portion of producers, the so-called first processors. Who, like, who? The cheesemakers, the cheese farmers - cheese farmers, who were also to be given a favorable payment in sixty days, since they were basically the ones who were called upon to pay for milk within sixty days and were not in the table that they were entitled to pay in sixty days. I would remind you of all this - and I repeat - in a spirit of consensus, beyond the historical importance they may have, in order to make it clear with proof and not with wishing to express it was New Democracy, at the time as opposition, today as government, which is in action and not with words at the side of the producers, the weak links of the chain, on the side of healthy competition and directly against unfair practices. In practice, of course, your bill has not been implemented. The Minister, Mr Lebanese, has shown this very well. We had you, it's true, warned about it. I personally described it as an empty shirt and unfortunately we were right. Unfortunately, we have lost time for producers. And we were right not only because your bill was still mortal and it was said, confirming that, and the Association of Greek Banks - I have here their relevant report, the relevant passage and I will submit it - but also because it becomes practically inapplicable. It is said in writing by the Association of Greek Banks in the committee responsible. So, then, and much more limited scope, it was your bill - it was only about vulnerable products, it was talking for sixty days, and today we are talking for thirty days - and inapplicable remains as it turns out. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative initiative we are debating today, which concerns all agricultural products, is also necessary. As demonstrated in the debate in committee and in the extensive debate that preceded both the Minister of State, Mr Spilios Levanos, and his predecessor, Mr Voridis, it has broad market support, as it is in the interests of the social system, consumers, producers and healthy businesses. Because we are talking about unfair practices, there is no clearer malpractice - I imagine the whole House agrees - than the Greekisms. Nor is there a precedent for the historical treatment of Hellenism in such a strict manner as the one we have shown as the government's political leadership with the previous law, Mr.4691/2020, which he actually did? He gave a penal deception to the offense of Hellenism and defined imprisonment from two to five years. [[At this point the end of the time bell is ringing by Mrs. Secretary-General]] I will also need your tolerance, Mr President, and thank you very much in advance. He put fines of more than 600,000, and they can reach exactly the amount of the illegal profit that the Greek publisher achieves with unfair practice. Of course, the main thing is that it provided for the removal of a product PDO licence from the sub-committees, that is to say, the ones who, for the second time, are caught by the control pin in Greece. On the basis of this framework, moreover, it is now also being managed by the unpleasant and fortunately individual case of the feta-sharing company, the supermarket chain in Germany. This is the first time that a control mechanism, with the guidance of the political leadership, has shown, in essence, directly reflexive and instead of making suggestions for fines to committees that have never met, as was unfortunately the case in your day, the license to produce feta was withdrawn on our own days to the complainant until the conclusion of the findings of the final and final controls has been completed. The message is clear. All those who deal with feta, businessmen, producers, traders, sit on the same branch. In the same branch is Greek production. Whoever saw it with his choices obviously saws his own business and professional prospects, but above all he saw Greek production as a whole and we are not going to allow that to happen. That's why we don't have to say much. The new legislation is to be implemented in full, and I would say, in paraphrasing a multipurpose expression, that as the Government of the New Democracy we will be every word and every letter of Law 4691/2020. To conclude, I would like to stress that this legislative initiative should not be seen as either an individual move or much more as a mere incorporation of a Community directive into national law. It must be seen as a link of a large chain of initiatives, which we have undertaken in the run-up to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who had said features on one of his many tours, that the party with the Greekizations has ended in the rule of New Democracy. That is why in our effort to tackle the phenomenon of Hellenism as widely and efficiently as possible, we broaden the scope of our interventions and two other very important products, which, until yesterday, were not of the utmost importance and are treated by the political leadership. I'm talking about eggs and honey. So I would like to remind you very quickly that we are the government that first legislated the egg balance, really giving a shield of protection in this dynamic egg-producing sector, and we will be the Government that will implement for the first time a 'ARTEMIS' system for honey, a equally dynamic industry, with a very important presence in exports, especially in third countries. This is, of course, a dynamic cooperation between our Ministry and the Ministry of Digital Governance and, of course, ELGO - "DIMITRA". Our position is specific. There are no abattoirs in the agri-food sector, which are either a lack of political will or a lack of resources and infrastructure. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] So - and I close - the legality and the same rules for everyone everywhere. This is the new normality in our country, such as new regularity is investment and new modern infrastructure. In combination, the Recovery Fund - the Minister referred to the money for the recovery fund for the agri-food sector - is, together with the new rural development programme, the power of a very high power. It is really a pity in this great national effort, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to claim that the agri-food sector is not included in the conclusion of the Pissaridis Committee and the programme "ELLADA 2.0". It is a pity that the next six years with numbers are going to take place in the agri-food sector, as in the entire Greek economy, what has not happened for many years. So now it is our historic opportunity, with our products being sought on the international markets - it is shown by the increase in exports, by the positive trade balance after thirty-six years, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a pandemic - but it is also the opportunity of all of us in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, by our positive vote, to show in practice that the political forces are shaking up against unfair trade practices and in favour of the weak link of producers, which we want to make with our policies the possible player of this chain. Thank you for your attention, and I would ask you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u103	We will now give the floor to Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, today's global health day and we are addressing a great deal of thanks and indeed within the coronary warp of medical, nursing and, in general, the staff of the ESS, the EAEC and the prosperous structures, and this is for their great offer and for the great burden they are gaining. Mr President, as PASOK - a Change Movement we have tabled many amendments calling for the inclusion of these in heavy and unhealthy. It is high time that the government acted. I'm coming to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we incorporate European Directive 633/2019 into Greek legal order, and this is in relation to relations in the chain of supply of agricultural products and foodstuffs. The aim is to put an end to the unfair commercial practices of suppliers and buyers of agricultural products and foodstuffs. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that constantly farmers and small food business are in the position of the weak - and let this be kept - that is, they do not have the negotiating power they need to defend against the unfair practices of large businesses. I would like to point out that. European regulations come as a solution to this problem, in order to protect and shield small producers, of course, in order to ensure a decent living for small producers, that is to say, without being exploited by the strong people of the market. So, ladies and gentlemen, the strong trading partners, for example, are called upon to stop imposing practices, Madam Minister, which operate solely for their own benefit, such as - for example - to cancel orders at the last minute, to return to the supplier of products which have not been sold, to refuse to make written contracts, to charge the supplier the discounts that they give the consumer, to demand that the supplier pays the costs for the advertising of products. Therefore, Madam and Mr Ministers, this is a directive of great importance to the functioning of the market and to the support of small producers. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have some remarks on the provisions of the bill, which have been analysed, and I would say, in the best way today and today, as well as in the committee, by our rapporteur and colleague, Mr Apostolos Panas. First of all, Article 1 has not been clarified, Mr Ministers, the concept of 'yearly turnover'. This, of course, creates confusion as to whether it is the turnover of the last year or, for example, the average for the last year's turnover. Also, as a PASOK - a Change Movement we propose to create a register of suppliers of agricultural products and foodstuffs. Thus, there will be greater transparency on the market and at the same time the Ministry will know which companies are subject to the law. Article 3 also provides when suppliers must be paid for the products they deliver. However, Mr Ministers, it is not clearly defined - and let it be kept, because we would also like to see an answer - what happens when payment is made by debt instruments, namely the standard cheques. Don't hide behind our finger. We know very well how the market works and indeed the whole market works with post-modernised checks. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill incorporates European regulations that shield small and medium-sized enterprises from unfair practices. However, let us not forget that the small producers in our country, farmers, farmers, support our countryside and our national economy, and I would say, in conditions of inconvenience. The epidemic hit the focus and brought chainy problems to the producers, limiting the disposal of their products and naturally endangering themselves and their families. The prices that producers receive today for meat, for milk, have come to be below costs and the state, ladies and gentlemen, here, is unable to provide a solution. It's come water's more expensive than milk! This, if nothing else, is a disgrace. It is not possible, therefore, for the state to set an effective framework for price restraint and controls and to lay responsibility for market rules. The same situation is with the olive growers, especially the Kalamata olive growers who see the honour of plundering and the Hellenisms spread, a problem I would say in my constituency, Aitolokarnania, where 60% of the Kalamas olive variety is produced in the country. Even from aid for the pandemic, we have been promised, but we have seen nothing to do with it. The Ministry's announcement, after all, of aid to the Kalamon olive again does not cover the olive growers. The same is true of the coarse olives, which have been left without aid. It is up to you, Mr Ministers, today to give a solution - and Mr Lebanese, who is himself responsible - to years of problems that are afflicting the primary sector, particularly our country, Ioannina. In conclusion, I would say that while the income of farmers and farmers is shrinking, at the same time there are increasing obstacles to production. Finally, in feedingstuffs farmers have seen the cost of feedingstuffs multiplying in a few months. Also, Minister, the suspension of forest maps is overturning their everyday lives. Areas cultivated and owned by individuals appear as forests. We want a solution and the citizens of course have to prove themselves. We have also seen today the farmers who asked the forests to grant land for the creation of flocks of shepherds to be at a dead end. After the forest maps have been posted, it is unknown whether they will even be able to do so. As far as subsidies are concerned, we have recently experienced the fiasco of paying reduced subsidies by 10% at the end of 2020 for six hundred thousand producers. And that's not all. OPEKEPE since the beginning of the year, as we all know, has been showing a collapse. What do we observe? The adoption of administrative acts, error corrections, payments with related payments, payments of young farmers and improvement plans have been frozen. In short, the payment schedule that farmers have known for a number of years is no longer being implemented. To conclude, Minister, I would like to say that our country's producers need the support of the state immediately, now, not of course tomorrow and to be protected by the great players of the market, as ensured by the European framework we are discussing today, but also to protect their production with aid, with decent prices, with fair support policies, without any other obstacles. So give a solution today to the problems of the primary sector. Tomorrow it'll be late. You think you can. So what you think you can do is do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u105	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Christos Boukokos, has the floor. Then Mr. Heimaras follows and Mr. Red. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the world health day today, which is the most valuable good and the value of which we are all aware of, I wish to wish those who are struggling for the retreat of the coronary pandemic of good strength and good success in their work. We have a bill from the Ministry of Rural Development today and we will ask ourselves in a purely agricultural-food-producing country, but in which this sector of the economy has been unable to exploit its potential over time and fulfil its role, which is the nutritional adequacy of the Greek people and the strengthening of the export economy, what today are the biggest problems in the agricultural sector, ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, it is the high average age of the rural population, the adequacy of water, the necessary increase in agricultural land, given that there is a very small rural lot in our country that does not exceed forty acres and does not compare with other European countries, because we always compare production costs, particularly for mountain, disadvantaged and island regions, the producer's access to finance, the safeguarding of payments and the safeguarding of its product prices. I would also say that a top issue in the direction that we want to give to the rural economy is the completion of the value chain of agricultural and livestock products in our country, which, as the State Secretary has already said, has shown in recent years that they have enormous potential. The completion of the chain of value begins long before our producers are trained, with best production practices, with the certification, processing, branding and marketing of agricultural products and the placing on the supply chains and marketing networks of agri-foodstuffs. Will anyone well wonder about a bill brought today by Spilios Lebanese, the Minister for Rural Development, who has the legislative initiative to ratify a European directive, and more specifically 633/2019, touches all these key issues in the agricultural sector? In my view, the contents of the bill rather than what the Minister said today, as well as the Mrs and the State Secretary, yes, touches on all these issues. And I'm explaining. The draft was the high average age of the rural population. The Minister has announced that the programme of young farmers is over-aided. It touches the main issue. Is the average age of farmers to be touched in this way alone? Oh, no. And with the Recovery Fund for Training and Education, so that executives are trained to enter the field of agricultural production. For the financial tools, too, the current bill, for the twenty-five thousand without insurance, has been foreseen, but it is not the only financial instruments. There are also the Recovery Fund. Furthermore, it is the government's decision to integrate agricultural investment under EUR 500,000 into the ESDP programmes. That is to say, we guarantee multiple sources of funding. Second issue: adequacy of water. In what we have been discussing today, has this matter been dealt with? Absolutely, because Mr Lebanon announced that 1.5 billion euros from the Reconstruction Fund for most of it will go to irrigation projects. Mr. Economou has come and completed that these irrigation works will now be complete, because we have semifinished works in Greece, with the greatest Acheloos and let our Minister be, the Thessalons will say it. We also have smaller irrigation projects, which built the main irrigation project, the lake and no funds had been provided for the water channelling pipelines in the growing areas. There must be a more organized and more serious job. Is the increase in agricultural land included in today's bill? Of course, by improving the electronic concessions of the Ministry of Rural Development. But here, gentlemen of the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, I would say that there are too many areas of ownership of the Ministry of Rural Development, but also by extension of other ministries, namely the Greek State, which are not exploited because we do not even have topographic charts for these areas. If, therefore, Mr Lebanese and the current leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development manage to record and house - let me express - all these areas, they will have offered not only the rural population but also the national economy by increasing productivity. It's a third thing I've raised. Production costs in particular for mountain and disadvantaged island regions. Products which were produced and marketed from the coronary were financed this year with EUR 500 million. Do you know what 500m euros means, ladies and gentlemen? It means an increase of 25% of the single payment. In other words, we had an increase of EUR 2.1 billion that the country receives a yearly direct payment, and these were added to the government's policy, which was very difficult to document in many cases. Because, in order that the European Union does not consider them to be de minimis, it needs to be adequately evaluated and documented why this product is being funded. Why did the honor fall? That's not good enough. Why was production limited? That's not good enough either. Why did the cigarette drop? That's not good enough either. It must be demonstrated by the leadership that, in fact, the cause of the reduction in the income of the producer of the product concerned is pandemic and coronary. Mr Vorides' previous leadership and Mr Lebanese's current leadership are doing a great job on this. Fortunately all the proposals from the Ministry of Rural Development have been approved. Ensure payments and price collateral. But that is precisely what affects the bill today and, in particular, the vulnerable products which, if you like, are even weaker than the producer's negotiating capacity, because if it does not make them available in time, it is at great risk. It is therefore in the best way possible to integrate this directive of the European Union. In fact, I should like to point out that the Minister is listening. Listen and lower the limit. It includes all enterprises with over EUR 500,000 traded in agricultural livestock products. Basically, this covers all enterprises. It is not meant to trade in agricultural and livestock products and have a turnover below EUR 500,000. In this sense, let us also take care of the producer who gives his products. If he gives them to air-conditioning plants with a turnover of 5,000, 10,000, 20,000, 50,000 euros, his product is at risk. So the Minister comes down to EUR 500,000 and ensures that all production is paid in thirty days, that there will be no unfair and blackmail - I say - practices. Is it the only government policy that ensures that Greek products and prices are made available? Oh, no. Do we forget about the law against mimicism, about the so-called Greekisms? Each Easter wrote vulgar titles in Greek newspapers "Greek amnofilions", "Greek feta" etc. On the contrary, what do newspapers write with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the leaderships of the Ministry of Rural Development? That he was arrested for illegal Greekization of milk, he was arrested for illegal production of feta with practices affecting income, but mainly the reputation of the product. Who was the government that legislated the Beekeeper’s Register. Honey is a leading product, such as oil and livestock products. It was today's government for the first time. And as the State Secretary has pointed out, after thirty-six years, ladies and gentlemen, the commercial agricultural balance is now in surplus. Thirty-six years! Do you know what that means? It does not only mean that we are close and can achieve the nutritional adequacy that we have not yet achieved. Imports of agri-food products in the past decades have fed the trade balance deficit, so that we go to deficits, loans and overcompensation of the country. In addition to the other industrial products, we had arrived just before the memoranda of importing 6 billion a year of agri-food products. Today comes the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, the current government and tells us that for the first time, after thirty-six years, the commercial agricultural balance is positive. I think it's very important. That's the direction. This is the role to be played by the agricultural sector. Of course, you can see a minimum of 1.5 billion, but we do not count on the resources of the CAP, we do not calculate the resources of the NRP, we do not calculate the emergency aid. The money seems to exist sufficiently. I'm happy for another thing, too. This morning you addressed all parties and said you were waiting for the proposals. You showed what you heard. It is a great advantage for a politician to listen to and include in the policies that decides the views and the stakeholders, but also in the political forces of the country. In order to prepare a national policy for the primary sector, then, we need consultation, all the views and those that can be integrated into it need to be heard. A lot of money from the Recovery Fund and the ESDP will go to the manufacturing sector. It is the critical sector, which helps fill this value chain and collect the goodwill of our agricultural and livestock products. Because until today when we take these steps, the goodwill received by the Greek producer for the product produced, since many of these products are still sold in bulk - let me express - is far less than the goodwill received by the north European farmer. We have a difference, a size class around 20%. It is 37% - 50% the value of agricultural products. All this is many billion euros a year. Not in time. Therefore, Minister, in this sensitive agricultural sector, we see that what you and your partners are saying here and what is included in such a seemingly simple bill, touching the whole range of agricultural production. Other ministries, such as finance and development, are involved in agricultural production. I hear things about the Ministry of Development bill, but it has not been consulted. Therefore, everything that is heard is journalistic information or assessments of the stakeholders. I would like to ask you before seeing the bill, to ensure that the historic role, from the years of the Middle Ages, is not affected by the producers in the people's markets. The main aim of the people's markets is mainly to feed the people's families with more economical agricultural products. This role should not be touched on under any circumstances. Besides, food chains went well in the pandemic. Actually, the pandemic worked for them. We need to see - since you are in the Ministry of Rural Development - in cooperation with the Ministry of Development if the same conditions apply throughout the territory. In other words, the seller on the Attica People's Market may not be interested in production and wants to be a purely professional marketing agricultural products. The seller on the popular market, however, in the region is certain to be a producer. This relationship must be safeguarded. I am not saying anything more about this. It is good first to see the contents of the bill and then comment on it and, of course, to the extent that we can improve it. I would say to you, Mr Minister, that you continue to try to help increase production and our agricultural and livestock products, to ensure them and - if you like - to collect goodwill. This is also the case with the training of farmers, the irrigation works and the strengthening of processing, because the Greek products may not be large in quantity, but they are the best in quality. This strategic advantage should be exploited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u107	We will now give the floor to Mr Haimara Themistoklis from the New Democracy. Then there's Mr. Kokalis and then the parliamentary representative of Mera25, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Undersecretary, dear compatriot, Mr. Undersecretary, Mr. Economou, friend Yiannis, before I come to the bill I would like to say that Greek farmers have been hard tested this past year by the pressure of the pandemic and many disasters, such as "Janus", which hit our place, Mr. Economou, in Fthiotida. They have too many problems. The government is true that it has made a huge effort to deal with them. Such a measure was also the possibility of adjusting the dues of the farmers to PPC, after an agreement reached a year ago by the Ministry of the Environment with PPC, which enables them to repay their debts in eighteen or twenty-four instalments, giving an advance of 15% and 20% respectively. Today, unfortunately, my information from my home country in Phthiotis is that few farmers can respond to this need. That is why, with regard to my question yesterday to the Minister responsible, Mr Skreka, I asked to investigate the possibility of a lower advance and more instalments, with the aim - obviously - of all drilling to work, not to leave any fields without water at this difficult time. I am, of course - and I am sure you have it - the help, the support to this demand that expresses a difficult day-to-day life for our farmers. I'm coming to the bill. The Regional Unit in which I am elected, Phthiotida, is an area which is primarily based on the primary sector and primarily on the production of edible olives. I have, and have been, daily cooperation with producers and traders of Fthiotida, because of my previous capacity as Vice-President of entrepreneurship and extrovert, as well as of course the current Member of Parliament. In fact, from 2015 to 2019 as a regional authority of Central Greece, we implemented policies to strengthen the extroversion and export of agricultural products, through the organised participation of the Region, together with producers, in at least twenty exhibitions by Greece and abroad each year, where the producer, assisted by specialised regional officials, was able to expose his products, make direct contact with buyers, with the aim of concluding agreements that would enable him to enjoy himself rather than the mediators, fruits and goodwill of his work. In fact, in order to achieve the best possible results and also to provide the possibility of a single professional image as a region, before participation in important exhibitions, we were organizing educational meetings, with the aim of informing producers about market culture preferences, to which we also aim, of course, in matters of commercial law, in order to ensure that unfair practices are avoided. In short, we have tried to form an easy and secure export path for the small producer, the cooperative, the producer group of our country. In fact, I have received many incidents related to the bill under discussion. One such incident I will mention to you, in which a local supplier of edible olives, who is exporting within and outside the European Union, signed a contract with a buyer from Spain. After exchanging the necessary documents, medical certificates, chemistry analyses, he sent the load of edible olives. When this arrived in Spain, however, the buyer unilaterally changed the agreement, on the pretext that there might be a trace of pesticides in the product, despite the fact that the analyses testified to the quality of the product. The buyer, after all, did not agree to pick up the shipment at the agreed price. Probably in the mid-term found a similar product at a lower price and changed its mind. The Greek trader, with the nipple in the neck, had to bring the olives back to Greece at his own expense, which reached 4,500 euros. The alternative option was to sell its production at a lower price. Lost in both cases. Ladies and gentlemen, we can see from many examples that many times the Greek producer, the producer group and the cooperative are unprotected. Unfair commercial practices have multiplied, especially lately, with the most frequent, among others, which tell me that late payments for vulnerable food products, cancellations of orders at the last minute, forcing the supplier to pay for allegedly damaged products, refusal to conclude written contracts with champions, of course, unilateral or retroactive change in contracts. If, in fact, we also take into account uncertain factors such as weather conditions, the vulnerability of agricultural products and foodstuffs, their seasonality and many others, we realise how urgent the need for producers to protect against unfair practices is. This comes to cover national legislation by incorporating Directive 633/2019 which complements, it is true, existing tools. The management of complaints, the imposition of fines and interim measures is explicitly defined. At the same time, product repayment issues are being dealt with, and steep fines are being provided. Let me make a separate reference to the importance of the amendment, which will enable the immediate start of the tacosy to begin. The torch is shattering the olive trees and Phytidis, dramatically reducing the incomes of the olive growers. It is necessary and timely to deal with it. Also, a reference to Article 19, which prolongs the possibility for the main-professional farmers to conclude contracts or to extend contracts of up to EUR 25 000, without providing proof of insurance. This measure proves extremely effective, since at this difficult time it allows our farmers access to absolutely necessary funding. Ladies and gentlemen, the way from the field on the shelf of international markets hides traps, malicious and hardships that prevent Greek products from conquering the world's markets. I call on you to vote in favour of today's bill as another action to strengthen our farmers, who are genuinely giving a hard struggle every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Vassilis Kokas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to welcome the Minister's willingness to listen to proposals which may be fruitful and, as he has said, if some are valid, he can and must adopt them. The day before yesterday, a farmer called from Atalo-Carnania and asked me what unfair commercial practice, as described in the bill, protects the income of the natural person or farmer. Mr Lamia mentioned an example, but he was not a farmer. He said 'the supplier', 'the dealer'. Time is not enough to analyse whether unfair commercial practices cover natural persons, namely farmers and farmers. That is why today, Mr Minister, we are tabling proposals, and I am sure you will take them into account. I know two unfair trade practices which burn farmers. Let me make it clear that it's another unfair commercial practice and another illegal act. We need to know what we're talking about. We come to this step and say 'the first link is protected, the chain'. How is it protected? The Greeks are an illegal act. The non-payment of agricultural products is an illegal act, it is not an unfair commercial practice. And you do well in 30 days. Unfair commercial practice - that is to say the word - has the pretext of legality, but uses any unfair aims. Two are unfair trade practices. First, open prices. I'll read to you what a gentleman said, and in the end I'll tell you who he is. 'One of the unfair commercial practices - and here I want to be directly responsible - is the practice of open price. I make it clear that it is unfair commercial practice and violates the rules of good trade. In the event of agreement on the delivery of the producer's product to the trader, the producer is bound, in fact, by criminal clauses, to deliver his product, but the price is open. Especially in vulnerable products, such as milk, this creates absolute dependence. However, all this will be answered by the Directive and by the Legislative Committee.' Who said that? Mr. Voridis. I'm presenting it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kokalis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned speech, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's see what we were talking about and what we were talking about and what we were doing. The requirement in the Written Convention has been established since June 2019 for the product called cotton with the agreement of the Interbranch Organisation of Cotton. What the European Union is now asking for has been doing since June 2019. So, Minister, you have the Civic Opposition, which, as a government, had established the written contracts, and you have also the prior leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which replied that, yes, the phenomenon of open prices is unfair commercial practice. Because we have to say things with their name: the product is delivered and the price later. Isn't that what's happening? That's what's happening. Shouldn't we work this out? You have to. Does the directive allow it or does it not allow it? Of course he does. In paragraph 23 in the explanatory statement on the written contracts, it states: 'Although it should not be compulsory, the use of written contracts in the supply chain may help to avoid certain unfair commercial practices'. Here we will meet reactions, Minister. By who? From farmers who have great financial comfort and have the opportunity to sell the product without closing the price, because if the price is not closed the contract has not been completed. Therefore, you have the Qualified Opposition that asked you and had done so for cotton and you have the previous leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which in reply said that "yes, it is unfair commercial practice". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Second commercial practice, which is not mentioned, is cartels. Last year the edible olive had 0.98 euros in five counties. The same is true of other products. Why is the farmer, firstly, afraid to go to the Competition Committee? He fears that it will not be regarded as an unfair commercial practice and that agreement which exists - not always, not everywhere - is subject to the Committee of the Ministry of Rural Development when the directive itself, Mr Minister, gives the opportunity, he says so directly. First of all, with this directive, it is an opportunity to pursue a policy with a strategy. Spain, what did it do, Minister? Here, here's the law. Spain has moved far ahead. And this is where I want to make something clear. The minimum guaranteed prices are wrong as an expression, because it gives an argument to extreme neoliberals that this is forbidden by Union legislation. This is forbidden, but what does the Union say in the explanatory statement? Who says he's the most vulnerable of all the chain?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u111	Please, Mr. Red, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u112	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Who's the most vulnerable? The farmer. Member States can introduce even more stringent sanctions, not just integration. The directive itself says in paragraph 9 that the Member States will not just copy the directive. You can move forward. You can make politics. But that needs strategy and plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u113	Does it say minimum prices, Mr. Red?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u114	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u115	Minister, storage facilities for farmers to strengthen farmers' negotiating power. That is what farmers and cooperatives need. They need storage spaces. With ELGA proceed to the change of the regulation, initiated by the previous government on 16 December 2018 by decision of the ELGA. Sadly, a year and a half has now been lost to the literality. The damages are irreparable, especially in the Municipality of Tempon and in the Municipality of Elassona. I'm done, Mr. President. Minister, we hope you'll see all this. We are making proposals, which will benefit agriculture and livestock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u116	The parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis has the floor. Two speakers, Mr Baraliakos and Mrs Skondra, and the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, will then follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, could I have the floor later?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u118	Of course, I will give you the floor later, just know that Mr Gregoriadis is a parliamentary representative. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the luck in my life of being hypocritical to join in for a number of years and still to be my first-class friend, the very great popular actor of our country, Paul Contoyannides. As I knew it was from a rural family - his village is located outside Veria on the banks of Aliakmon -, at some point with the naivety of the butterchild - let me say - of the cities, I missed the question: "Have you ever worked in a field, Paul?" Paul Contoyannides began laughing. And when I asked him, "Why are you laughing, Paul?" he said, "Why was I born in a field?" I say to him: "What exactly can you mean you were born in a field?" He tells me: "Very simple five o'clock at dawn broke the waters, five and a half were born on the bed of a tree from my vulture mother who gave birth to me." I say to him, "Why gave birth to you there, Paul?" He tells me: 'Because of course he had to work on that day, as the day before and the day after.' Then I surprised him, always butterfly of the urban centre: 'Good and next days what happened'? He says to me: “What happened? Five-and-a-half in the morning I was going with the animal loaded in the field, stumbled in the same shell that I was born under the shadow of a tree and my mother was working." I say these, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, because we must not forget in this House when we talk about such matters that farmers are the only part of the working class on this land that is born and dying in their field. Paul was born in his field, and if he had no luck in becoming an actress and in an endless circle, where you never even have a living if you are a poor, honest farmer, he would die in the same field as he was born and where from the first day the mother, I had said, worked twelve hours. I would like to say to you, Minister, the reason why Mera25 is voting 'at present' and not 'according to', as we are used to doing in the bills of the New Democracy, not mania, but because we regard them as anti-grassroots, is because your bill is in good intentions and this really is a pleasant one. But for the time being in the same bill there is nothing to do with the practical application of good intentions, such as the control mechanisms to which constant references are made, but there is nothing in writing. You do not explain exactly how the control mechanisms will be inconsistent and how they will be created. I also have to tell you, Minister, that the central problem of our farmers, in our view, has two main components. It is the lack of funding, which funding has gone a long way since the Rural Bank disappeared. It is a proposal from Mera25 that, at last, a new bank, a state bank, of course, a public bank for our farmers, should give them movement funds and give them 'hot' money. And above all, let me say the second one, there is no exception, one care, one care - and take account of it - for red loans. And they, like us, have been exposed to these damn red loans. You know, as things came with memorials and epidemics, it's not society's fault, it's not the people who took red loans. There must be no sacrifice now, tomorrow morning, especially for the red loans for Greek farmers. I am pleased to hear my colleague, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, say that this is about the freaky things we all hear about the people's markets, which are directly related to rural order - because farmers are the producers who arrive in the people's markets - and it is rumoured that Mr Georgiadis and New Democracy want to legislate are malicious comments by journalists. I am therefore pleased - and I will say this from this step forward, to commit you in some way - that Mr Georgiadis will not legislate tomorrow, after tomorrow, the possibility of transferring licences to companies. I am pleased that you will not remove the licences from the people who are in the bench, from the producers unless 70% of the declared production in the IACC is sold. That is to say, for the Minister who has thought of this, if a Minister of your Government has thought about it, it means that he is the producer of his work and has to be punished for it. I am pleased that the payment of fees, regardless of the presence of the producer in the People's Republic on this day, will not be legislated by Mr Georgiadis. I am pleased with the auctioning of seats and licences, which will also not be legislated by Mr Georgiadis. And I am particularly pleased that the licence has been withdrawn for six months because of the non-issuance of three and only proofs. Listen to it, so you can understand it. In other words, apart from the fine to taxi, for three and only proofs it flies - if what Mr Boukokouros said is not to be verified, but I am very worried - for six months, then, apart from the work of bench biopales, producers, while we all know there is a party of legality of tax evasion from multinationals and offshore companies, the same pollen of memorials, where the proof of a cheese pie that you did not cut, Clonna, "giggle" was for the bankruptcy of a country rather than the bankruptcy of a century of banks, large-scale, etc. I leave all this because I believe Mr Boukoro, your parliamentary representative. I believe that some bad journalists have thought of all this, and they have never crossed the mind of my colleague, Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, such terrible thoughts. I move to the main part of my speech, which is titled, ladies and gentlemen, self-test: How free can it ultimately be something that does not exist? The millions that will be needed to buy self-tests are money that comes, as you all know, from the taxation of Greek citizens. They could also come from the profitability of the governments of Greek citizens, i.e. state investments, if all the investments made by our state over the last decade had not all gone completely hell. In other words, if the state took our tax revenues, levered them, invested them, and so in some way, some of them were taken on behalf of us, its citizens, then we could really be talking about a free test. But we have reached the other end - you know it very well - and for the past ten, twelve years, you have received the revenue from our barbaric and inhumane taxation, the taxation of the Greeks, when you do not cut off their wages and pensions and give them to the troika as the interest-freeness of a black debt hole that never shuts down. That is why our debt today amounts to EUR 355 billion, please, and it is, of course, greater than the day you started to repay it, it is supposed to be. It is greater than ever, although in the last decade we have - in fact, you have - given a total GDP of over 200 million euros as interest and will never close, in the century all of us, as your jailers are not interested in getting rid of, nor have we ever been interested in getting rid of, so that we can finally go to normality and take the debts. They are not interested in closing this black hole, but rather their only constant concern is that this debt will be perpetuated, as its interest has been directed for ten consecutive years at the large German and French banks, which have also been bankrupt for 15 years. Our bankrupt and collated state has not been able for ten, twelve years to produce the slightest wealth and almost all its operation begins and ends in carving us, its subjects, and at a modest ceremony, every few months, to hand over this whole carpet to the Sultan, Sultanna, at this time, which is Mrs. Von der Lyen of the Communion. I don't know, if it reminds you of anything I'm saying now, after just two hundred years since 1821. Didn't you change anything and you haven't gotten a hammer? Can't the new cocktails, after all, manageers like always the popular physicist anger in the service of their foreign bosses, dare say that anything in this country is given to its citizens for free. Nothing is given to us for free! We only get back a small, tiny part of the money we've given you, because you've failed evenly to do something creative and multiplier, for so many years now, with the money you've been treating us with. So it is fatal, under these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, that you, like all the Memorandum Governments that preceded you, should be a government of simply apprentices. Why? Because you are a government that has dismantled even the most basic tools with which it could pursue economic policy. And since those like you who do not choose the break with the institutions and the troika are automatically losing the right to pursue any economic policy in this place, what are they doing? They do, as they govern, all they have left to do, management and only arrangements to strengthen local and foreign oligarchs. See Greek, on the one hand the locals and Skouries on the other hand. Of course, at the same time what else do they do? They manage the little tax revenues that they do not hand over to the sultan, enriching with them and other parasitic factors, their friends, with gifts, as was done twice in the pandemic with the private channels of your parasitic canals and direct assignments, as tens of times, under the pretext of supposed urgency of the situation, from school masks and sourers so far, today, on self-tests. So congratulations where you - with your health! - You became officially a government of apprentice magicians, with free self-tests, which will ultimately be expensive. Why? I said it the other day. Because when they come out - and they go out - five hundred thousand positive samples - while your system has seventy-five thousand molecular tests a day - these people will "take them up" from their fear and say: "I'm dying, I want to see if I have a coron." These five hundred thousand will have to wait for them to be answered, from the centres you have built, one and a half months to two months to testify if their lives are threatened or not. What are they gonna do? They are going to tear 60 euros, as I did the other day. I said it again. But I'm a prosperous one, I'm a congressman. These are poor people. Congratulations! You will tell me now, the masks are detailed - because the masks were supposedly free of charge and we have never seen them in schools - in the face of the fact of poor tele-education, founding and imprisonment of adolescents for a whole year now, in their homes, without social contacts, without flirting, without rides, at the age that they all need more than ever. You'll tell me well, here we send them as sheep for slaughter, cognitively unprepared and psychologically devastated in the most critical, perhaps, for all their infancy, an appointment of their lives, at the date that they will judge whether they will remain at the level of middle education or whether they will open their wings to fly to culture for more. Are we talking about masks now? So let's stop talking about masks that, as you know, won't be ready when the schools are reopened and if the schools ever open again. And if any of the luck errors are ready, they won't have the right size. And if the devil breaks his leg and they have the right size, they'll be made of some wrong material. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish in two minutes, Mr President. Thank you in advance for your tolerance. So let us go to the interconnector for me, flaming, hot, "hot my heart and soul" issue of summer high school, ladies and gentlemen, and the cartooning of the "fathers" of their poorer students and their hope to receive higher education as well. Everything that I have told you about the difficulties of a year now, the regular high school seniors are, of course, also valid for students in the summer, even if many of them have now ceased to be teenage and are forced to take off high school at the same time. The most important date of their lives may be for many of them not even have a second chance, as biopalle is for them pressurizing and unstoppable. So, the first and last chance of their lives perhaps to change levels - not materialistic, spiritual level - wants these people to change - deprives them forever of Mrs Kerameos' bill, with the minimum import base that the government of Mr.Mitsotakis introduces for students and those of the summer high school. The unscrupulous rationale governing this provision is challengingly invoking the reality, invoking a superficial equality with day-to-day high school, which is automatically annulled, considering the fact that the students of the citrus are struggling on a daily basis in the guise of their professional and family obligations, since some of them already have families because of their age. Besides, they don't have any money and time to go to the schoolrooms that regular high school students go to. What false inscription of isology is it that forces them provocatively inequitable conditions to compete with students who do not need to work and their overwhelming majority have the support and assistance of parents and care? I shall conclude, Mr President, with this. Because I really want to tell you that, ladies and gentlemen. In the face of these defenseless plebiscites, these kids of summer high school a better and certainly more sincere wording on your part would be: "As soon as we do not manage with so many flagrant injustices that we force you to exclude you from higher education, provocative students of summer high school, who dare to go for a step further, with an article of shame in a bill of shame, we simply forbid you from entering our universities and get lost from here old - plebes that you dare dream of yourself and as a patron." For them, however, Mr President, the defenceless plebiscite that nobody seems to be defending MARA25 is here, attesting once again the sincerity of our basic slogan 'for people and not the posts'. For these very people, therefore, that our society has no right to treat them as being wasted only because they happen to be uneasy, we have prepared and will submit to the Greek Parliament next week an amendment that abolishes the minimum import base and restores the 1% premium for these students. I would like to say to you that apart from the students of the summer high school, there are also my colleagues - more than a hundred thousand - in all arts. Thirteen months later, you keep not seeing them. No Ministry sees them, no Minister sees them. We have ministers who are thinking of putting the immortal inscription of their name in the Acropolis. I think that this is a very good sign, because otherwise all the later generations of the Greeks will think that I and all of you are co-responsible for this disgrace in the Acropolis. We need to know that he has a name for this disgrace. Leave Mrs. Mendoni's sign. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u120	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Minister, Mr Lebanese, has asked for an intervention. Are there any legislative improvements? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u121	Legislation is delayed by the General Secretariat. Has Mr. Gregoriadis left yet? I wanted to tell him that I am following him and appreciating him and honoring him as an actor and as a human and a parliamentary representative. And we have discussed many times in this Chamber. Because I have followed him, I understand that in the first part of his speech, where he said it with his heart and out of text, he has put it for this particular bill that we are debating today and in general for the rural area, he really was himself. In the second part, which was forced to leap on the text and actually read what was placed on the paper, it lifted the tons more aggressively and tried to raise its opposition rhetoric to other things completely outside today's debate and completely outside rural production and rural space. In this context, I would just like to say that none of us in the New Democracy said or claimed the role of the apprentice magician. We fully respect, pain as much as you and we fight to manage the greatest crisis that our country has ever experienced in modern history since the war. We represent the people, those of you who say that we don't look and we don't talk. And we do not only represent them as the largest folk party in Greece, perhaps the biggest analogue across Europe, but we listen with the same feeling as all Greeks and all Greek women and especially young people. So I think you said that at the very edge of your speech. Don't try to claim a piece of society that way. Do it with positive effort and positive proposals. Coming to this, because I have said so many times today when we say positive proposals, we mean it. So if you have an overall set-up proposal on how we can build a new bank that can cover the agricultural sector - although the tradition of your party leader's political things does not show the right direction, because when he was a Minister of Finance he would rather help to dissolve the Greek banks, in any case, this is a past - I am very open to listen to it. In this context, however, I would like to remind you - perhaps you do not follow our own data too much - that our government has established the Guarantee Fund for farmers, in which seven banks are involved. The Ministry of Rural Development has put 80 million in there and banks 400 million. We have done this just to cover what you thought about when you said this about the bank. Also, in this bill in Article 19 we cover the needs that are being created at the moment. Read it, you may not have had the time to read it. And for loans of up to EUR 25,000 we give the possibility, without proof of insurance, to professional farmers being able to borrow for their jobs. So in this context I think - and I am keeping this from our debate - we are in the same direction. If you have anything more specific, we'd be happy to watch it. A second issue, Mr President. Tolerance, please. Mr. Red said he had certain thoughts and ideas. We're looking at them. As far as the cartels are concerned, which said that they are not covered as unfair practices, I think that is a wider issue, which is controlled by the Competition Committee. There is legislation on this, regardless of what we are talking about here today. In any case, where there are complaints to help him and we should take them to the Competition Committee. But there, I don't understand exactly what he meant. I think that if Article 3 is rereaded, it will see which of these practices we determine in this context as illegal. So a lot of what he said during his placement I think they are covered by Article 3. In fact, in point 1(j), it is stated that ‘the buyer commits the seller in writing orally to sell to him quantities of products, without at the same time committing himself to their purchase price’. This refers to what he was trying to say in other words about open prices. So in any case, I think we have a framework good. There is always whenever we vote and whenever we discuss a bill, the anxiety of how to implement this bill properly. And that was also said before Mr Gregoriadis. And in this context, I am telling you again because many of them will work with ministerial decisions, if you have thoughts and ideas of how this committee can be more effective, more effective, despite the fact that the Ministry has our own control mechanisms and has experience of control mechanisms, I am passing on to you, at the moment we are doing a lot of work and we will bring you a new framework of how control mechanisms in general work in our area - to give them to us to be more effective. Also, Mr President, because my colleague, Minister of State for Justice, came, I just wanted to say that the amendment under general number 831 and a specialist number 29 is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Gregoriadis, you asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u123	I will not eat you any time, Mr President. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u124	You have time, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u125	Minister, thank you very much for having followed my word so that you could also criticise the various parts of it. I'm honored. You will thus give me the opportunity to congratulate you on taking up your duties, as this is the first bill you bring to plenary. Dear Minister, and my former colleague as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, I shall respond almost unilaterally. As the poet says - and it is not an accidental poet, he is one of the world's largest Manolis Anagnostakis - "the time comes for all of us to decide who you're going and who you're going to leave." We, Minister, have decided to be with the students of the summer high school, with farmers born and dying in their fields, with the people who take their homes every week the red loans you have given to the predators. And you, I'm sorry to say it, and I say it without a trace of opposition mania, you've decided to be with our persecutors. And I don't mean for you. I mean all the Memorandum Governments. Our persecutors are the institutions, the troika or whatever they want to be named. The moment has come when we and you have made our decisions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u126	Mr Xenophon Baraliakos has the floor from New Democracy. Then there is Mrs Skondra and Mrs Manolakou, the parliamentary representative. Mr. Baraliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, it is now a common admission to the whole agricultural world of our country that the present government has raised the primary sector in pillars of development, economic penetration in new markets and multiplier extrovert for the agricultural products of Greece. Both the previous and the current leadership of the Ministry follows a unified, consistent and Romantic strategy that has greatly eased the pathogens of the past and has created new prospects for the agricultural business and ensured the high quality of our agricultural and livestock products. I come from a county, Pieria, where our farmers are starving and feeling every day the changes that have taken place on multiple levels. So today, with the vote on this bill, we add another armour and another gun to the patronage of our producers, cooperatives and small traders. The incorporation of the European directive into the national legal order to combat unfair commercial practices between producers and businesses in the agricultural and food supply chain extends a wide-ranging protection net to Greek farmers, who are now protected by strong market players. Due to high precariousness, which characterises many of the Greek agricultural products due to their sensitivity, their self-regulation, it is obvious that the arrangements of this bill reduce the additional risk of producers coming from stronger trading parties or counterparties with abuse and unfair behaviour. In simple terms, they are protected by an unreliable and unreliable buyer who would ultimately not pay them. The adoption of this directive gives Greek farmers and producers the chance to turn even more aggressively towards exporting our high-quality products, without risking losing out or saying it more popularly, 'blanked' in the bazaar to ensure a better deal than a bigger player in the supply chain. This is, moreover, the aim of this bill, the protection of agricultural producers until they reach the final consumer. That is why the directive recognises, records and specialises in a total of sixteen unfair practices, and this is of particular value to vulnerable agricultural products, which also fall under many Greek foods. In practice, this means that for this particular food category producers will be repaid within 30 days of the date of delivery. Think of how many categories of our farmers who produce such goods are ensured and gain favourable legal treatment to promote its export orientation with higher intensity. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, let me stress another important aspect of this bill, which is a legislative initiative of the Ministry and is introduced into Article 19. The possibility for the main occupational farmers to enter into and renew their loans and financing from banks up to EUR 25 000 without presenting the evidence of insurance information, in derogation from the legislation in force. This choice demonstrates our clear and unequivocal will to stand firm at the side of the rural world, who, despite the unfavourable circumstances of pandemic and economic descent internationally, also met in some areas that not only had endurance, but also made considerable progress. In the same positive direction, the Minister's earlier amendment for the extension of the terms of the board of directors of cooperatives until 30 June is in progress in order to carry out smoothly the antiquities of their members. Ladies and gentlemen, our rural development strategy is expressed and reflected in every legislative initiative. We are opting to strengthen the business mark of the primary sector, to strengthen its export orientation and to ensure that young people and young farmers are given the tools and the institutional framework to make the necessary leaps to be found in the start-up of the agricultural business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Baraliacos for the consistency in time. We shall now give the floor to Mrs Skondra Silina from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the world health day that is today, I would like to thank all those who work in the health sector for their contribution and their commitment to their work, especially at this time of the health war. Also, I wish you painlessly and quickly to those of our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today an important legislative initiative by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which especially for the region's MPs, its field of competence is at the forefront of our priorities. It is easy to understand that in areas such as my Region, Karditsa, farming is the main pillar of the local economy, from which the entire economic cycle of the prefecture is assembled. In areas where the primary sector is leading and is profitable, the entire local economy, directly or indirectly, is developing and blossoming, as is the standard of living that rises. Having served the primary sector for thirty and two consecutive years, and in part the secondary sector, I am well aware of the hardship, anxiety, exploitation, many times, the impossibility of planning, the insecurity of farmers and farmers, who have three hundred and sixty-five days a year struggling in difficult conditions next to their animals. I have also captured a consistent position that farm farming can grow much more and must be supported, as it is a neural sector in our country. It can ensure the country's self-sufficiency, especially in times of crisis. The primary sector produces significant wealth for national GDP. With its turnover, it is an engine for the entire secondary, manufacturing sector, from which thousands of families also live, contributing substantially to the economic and social development of the Greek region and not only. Three are the main pillars of the Greek economy: tourism, agricultural production and tertiary services. To focus politically on one of the three, neglecting the development and strengthening of primary production, will be fatal for the next generations of Greeks and Greeks. Combined with other dominant sectors, we must not lose sight of the fact that Greece is traditionally among the agricultural countries because of its separate territorial composition, the Mediterranean climate and the sun. It is important to realise that in an exogenous crisis, such as the coronary pandemic that we are experiencing today, but also in an economic crisis, as we have seen recently, the possibility of producing, processing and supplying your people with goods and foodstuffs without being dependent on third parties, makes you sovereign and independent. In all times, however, primary production has a prominent position in exports and trade balance. Ladies and gentlemen, in Brussels in 2013 the Green Paper on agricultural policy recorded the imbalances in the negotiating power that exists between suppliers and purchasers of agricultural products and foodstuffs, which farmers - producers have been systematically recording in their everyday lives for decades, asymmetry that has led to unfair practices at the expense, usually, of producers, who, at the same time, put at risk the smooth functioning of the market and make the supply chain of agricultural products vulnerable. In simple terms, a key problem that our farmers and our farmers have been facing for many years is those unfair practices that are launching consumer prices, but it remains a low profit for the producer. Hence the well known to all of us'stage from the field on the shelf'. In addition, with unfair commercial practices, the strong people impose conditions that are incomprehensible to the weak producers and, further to the ethical issue, make the agricultural and livestock production process unattractive. This situation, which concerns not only Greece, but the whole of the rural world in Europe, which faces similar problems, has made it necessary to adopt a single regulatory framework at European level, a framework that can be effectively implemented by common rules and common practices and to escape past phenomena when the Member States had different, non-harmonised frameworks for protection at national level. Today, Directive 633/2019 of the European Council is incorporated into our national law and there are questions of protection of producers and traders against unfair practices, since in our country, so far, there have been diffuse provisions in various laws, creating an extremely dysfunctional protection framework. The new regulations introduced aim to create a protective framework for producers, associations and cooperatives, processors and smaller traders and to create a network of cooperation and coordination between the Member States' authorities to deal with phenomena of unfair practices. They also aim to implement a single European legal protection framework which the Member States, of course, can further tighten up, if they consider it necessary, at pan-European level, legal recognition and prohibition of specific forms of unfair practice, a total of sixteen, ten of which are prohibited under any circumstances, while the other six are prohibited unless they have previously been agreed on clear and unambiguous terms. In order to ensure the correct application of the arrangements, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food proceeds with the establishment of a specialised Committee for the Combating Unfair Commercial Practices. Together with the Competition Committee, they will be responsible for imposing prohibitions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. At the same time, a complaints mechanism, an injunction procedure and sanctions are being introduced. The bill also includes, in its second part, provisions to improve existing regulations and to cover legal gaps in the past. They have already been mentioned by our rapporteur, so I will stand on a point and thank the Minister, because, as I have already said, it also concerns a large number of my fellow farmers in Karditsa. In other words, the main agricultural farmers are able to conclude and renew ADD contracts, i.e. from the banks, in view of the new growing season of up to EUR 25 000 and the farmer's card, without presenting the insurance information. Ladies and gentlemen, with the incorporation of Directive 633 of the European Council, the urgent need to protect the food supply chain is now covered. Although the end date of transposition of the directive into our national law is 1 November 2021, it honors our Minister, Mr. Spelion Lebanon, and the entire Ministry's leadership, which brings the vote much earlier. We must find ways of making the primary sector's production process attractive, especially to young people, who are currently avoiding the farmers' profession, because the high cultivation costs, the small lot, the small profit margins, the exposure to unforeseen weather conditions, the creation of cartels and, in general, the insecurity and unfair practices we are discussing, have completely removed them. And let us not forget that the primary, secondary and manufacturing sector can create hundreds of thousands of new jobs, which we absolutely need. At this point I would like to say - and I would like to know for a second, Mr President - that I have heard many of the Members of the Officerate are being 'cut off' for the farmer beforehand. I would not question their interest, but farmers are aware of the treatment they had from your government when you were in the government, as they also know, that none of the support measures taken by our Government for COVID, for disasters such as 'January' in Carditsa, did not vote for them. On the contrary, New Democracy traditionally invests in agricultural production.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u130	Complete, Mrs. Skondra.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u131	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u132	I gave you two and a half more, almost three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u133	That is why he has been next to the farmer for years and is in the priorities of Mr Mitsotakis and his Government to take the next step, the leap in the future with farms in a leading role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u134	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mrs Diamanto Manolakou has the floor. It will be followed by Mrs.Tegioridou Olympia and the circle of speakers will be completed with a natural presence with Mr. Kotsos. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u135	Thank you. We welcome today's totalitarian strike of professionals and producers in the people's markets against the government's anti-grass plans to dismantle the institutions of the people's markets, which will also be reflected in the ability of the people's family to supply fresh products at affordable prices. And these governmental manipulations are about the domination of large companies, since by auction they will buy licenses and anyone who has stockpile of money will have many benches. Woe to the man who only fights for the dirt. This is your free market, the big fish eating the little one. Of course it is the world health day today, the day of vindication and struggle for the health and life of the people. We welcome mass and multi-formal actions outside the hospital gates, where conditions are tragic, with shortages in staff, infrastructure and equipment, a result of the timeless policy of sub-financing and the commercialisation of the public health system. Outside the hospitals, therefore, at the side of our people, who are tested at the front line of the struggle to strengthen the public health system, to protect their health and life! We're with them! However, the anti-French government's policy is not just health, but it does more. He's using the pandemic to go through measures - hell for the workers. It has already leaked another bill of creepy with overthrows of the century - as their workers and trade unions rightly called it - after the eighth was abolished, it establishes a diner with full liberalisation of individual contracts, taking off overtime up to a hundred and fifty hours. They are measures - hell for the lives of millions of workers. Of course he's finishing the hit on SYRIZA's strike. Indeed, this bill - an abortion prepared by the government - is a necessary complement to the national recovery plan, which the government is praising and presenting, and the measures envisaged are the conditions of recovery that want capital and the European Union for even cheaper labour power. That's why the evidence suggests that pandemic has increased global wealth. The rich became richer by gathering 13.1 trillion dollars, increased in twelve months by 5.1 trillion, that is, 12 times over Greece's public debt! And then the Minister comes to blame the JRC for the poverty of the people's populations, we reveal, we indict and denounce the capitalist exploitation system! But also in the report of the Bank of Greece published yesterday, what does it provide for? It provides for bankruptcy tsunami - both inside and there included farmers - the evacuation of unemployment by withdrawal of measures, as well as an increase in poverty and social and economic inequalities, both between countries and between households within countries. It's official evidence. And they're not the only ones. Farming boils from the acute problems that exist. Farmers are protesting in several areas, from the suspension of forest maps, revealing the political responsibilities of SYRIZA’s current and previous government and all other urban governments, for the land commercialisation strategy, the huge changes in the character and use of forests and forest land that have become tourist businesses, industries, hotels, settlements and others, characterising private land that were agricultural land, cultivated and abandoned for various reasons, such as German occupation, civil war, immigration, job search in urban centres or misplaced areas as forests, since private study companies which compiled the maps did not do so because of costs the necessary self-sufficient or even state forest areas that have been evacuated and cultivated for survival or forest land that have been grazed for more than 50 years and have still not been in receipt of subsidies, but have not been in receipt of subsidies. It may have been extended, but with the huge subsidization of the Forest Service doubt it is the result. You want the land for wind turbines, for photovoltaics, for tourist businesses and tourist villages etc. They may also be the issues of the Ministry of the Environment, but they also concern the Ministry of Rural Development, since they are directly related to the income of farmers and the level of aid. And now you are presenting this bill to us that it will put an end to the sufferings of farmers from the exploitation and extortion of big dealers and processors when you are supporting their interests. Indeed, as evidence the Minister tells us that they are voted on by all parties. Let me tell you, for the overlap of small and medium-sized farmers, you're all backed up. And the third memorandum, however, all of you have voted for it, like the OECD's long-term milk requirements, for yoghurt which was and is against farmers. And last week, though, you did not vote for most - outside Mera25 - the privatisation of the Greek, as a few years ago the concession of the largest port of Eastern Europe and the country, Piraeus? And I would remind you that you agree to be given over 4 billion to NATO instead of going to hospitals, schools and other people's needs. This is how urban parties are, and this is confirmed in this bill that we are voting against. You added to the first article after the outcry another case, placing a turnover limit on the buyer of EUR 500 000. You once again leave at least half the agricultural cooperatives outside, who are purchasers - buy from farmers - and some are too late to pay them. Yet again, it does not mean that, with this change, farmers are being protected for three reasons: one is that the farmer remains weaker with reduced negotiating capacity. Analysed. It is what our rapporteur, Maria Konnaka, said. It's not the same thing between two wolves and a relationship between a wolf and a sheep. Secondly, the 'doors' and'windows' remain in Articles 3 and 4 which call for the protection of unfair practices. They are being disfellowshipped and legitimized. Thirdly, it is well known that from the first demands of the rural movement, lower prices are guaranteed on agricultural and livestock products that meet production costs, they will ensure survival income for small and medium-sized farmers to provide cheap and quality products for people's needs against speculation by traders and industries. Do you see how much gangrene she is? And yet you ignore it, not only you, but SYRIZA, when it was government. Guaranteed prices, who do they have? The monopolies of renewable energy sources, big-workers on tolls and so on. For them you have guaranteed prices. The bill, therefore, mainly regulates relations between wholesalers, retailers, large-scale and industrialists, because there are problems in this area with wholesalers and industrialists to protest about the great delays in the supermarket and the known phenomena with the bankruptcy of chains, as they are complaining about other practices used mainly by supermarkets to increase their profitability, such as fees charged for a good shelf, cancellations of orders, etc. However, you are dealing in the same way with the trade, on the one hand, between two business groups with huge dozens and hundreds of millions of euros and trade, on the other hand, between such an enterprise, supermarket or dairy industry and a small farmer or a small supplier. The large company, the monopoly, holds the producer hand in various ways, such as the blackmailing that its production will remain indisposed, the import of cheaper raw materials from abroad, the demand for various certifications and specifications in the context of so-called quality control and other methods. Of course, it is not just the issue of late payments, but also the issue of degrading prices, for which the bill does not provide for anything, because that is what the market solves in capitalism, that is, the monopolies that blackmail and drain small and medium-sized farmers. They are forced to sell production cheaply and the workers, the popular layers to buy expensive, without being able to meet their needs. We therefore believe that this bill acts as a treasury between magistrates and supermarket chains and delays in payment between them and not between farmers and traders or processors, as you are presenting it. Moreover, even where the Euro-Info-Spain Directive is being implemented, although specific arrangements were presented by the Social Democratic Spanish Government as measures to support small and medium-sized farmers and prices, with which they have their products to traders and industrialists, are nevertheless moving in the opposite direction, which many rural operators have pointed out in Spain. It turns out once again that the needs of small and medium-sized bio-policy farmers do not fit into the decisions of the governments of the European Union and their institutions. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] This is why a solution to the inequality and barbarity of the capitalist exploitation way of production and in this area is state trade, the central scientific design for socialised and cooperative production, at a state price for collecting each product from the state and distribution through state trade at affordable prices throughout society and of course a guaranteed income for all. With such an organization there will be neither extortion nor exploitation nor open prices nor repayments. But such solutions don't fit into your exploitation barbaric system. In conclusion, I am reintroducing the issue of the dismissals by an experienced judge from the ELGA, while they need them. There are very great deficiencies and needs, especially after the great frost that hit in March. It's a loss to the farm and ELGA. At least promise that they will have increased moleculosis and, of course, a profound change in the law of the ELGA. Under no circumstances is he compensated for 100% or even the great destruction of Karditsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. Good evening to you and me. We will now go to Kastoria in SYRIZA's Olympia Tyloridou, followed by Mr Kotsos from New Democracy, and we close the circle of speakers with natural presence. That is why I would like to inform my fellow Members via WEBEX, Mrs Malama and Mr Ljupi to be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, finally the flow of political time is always the time to prove itself, even for those who fanatically deny them. I am referring to the New Democracy, the defence of the free market and its sacred rules. It is therefore clear that under free market conditions, unless the conditions, rules, ethical and good practices are identified in trade by the State, then things become disastrous and, as has been said before, the big fish eats the little fish. State intervention, therefore, is essential to the protection of financially weaker trades. So this European directive, which is obviously not panacea, is coming, but in our opinion it is in the right direction. What this directive is trying to solve, we have attempted during our government's term of office to set it up, with difficulties, with obstacles. The problem is not easy and it is not solved from one day to the next and with this legislation all problems can be solved. Nevertheless, two years before it came, in April 2019, this European directive, we tried in 2017 with n.4492 - was heard here many times - to put a order in the chaos of trade in agricultural products. We tried the same with the Joint Ministerial Decision on milk controls, which we identified in quarterly delivery declarations and monthly compulsory receipt declarations to indicate the price, value of the product. We have tried the same thing with the cotton decision as the compulsory signature of the contract at the time of delivery, to put an end to open prices. The question, therefore, of these unfair practices in the relations between undertakings throughout the agricultural chain, concerns all Member States of the European Union. It is good that the initiative is being taken at European level to tackle a whole so that there are common rules which will not fall within the Competition Committee. So this directive is incorporated into Greek law and that is something that has to be done. Unfair practices mainly affect the weak member of an agreement, especially when it comes to agricultural products, which are produced in conditions of uncertainty. The difficulties in the nature of the production process have been heard in this Chamber. The great cost of production, the dangers from climate change, the conditions faced by our farmers in terms of economics, especially in recent years with the health crisis, the great financial difficulty, the closure of the focus, the reduction of tourism now create problems of the sustainability of agricultural holdings, as well as of processing and trafficking. We must therefore go into the problems of the rural world and help as far as we can. Is the New Democracy Government doing this today? One behind each other, government officials say they do it and that they have given too much money. And it's good we left 37 billion to see where you'd find them to give them. And good to have the stability freeze. And it is good that there are now conditions for the European Union to be able to manage things economically differently. Why would you imagine having managed such a health crisis and left you with empty funds, as you did in 2015! And despite the financial possibilities you have, what are you doing? For example, improvement plan. You do not accept what is calling for the entire rural world of the country to be integrated. You say, "We don't have any money, we'll see it for later." Otherwise, you take it that with your own efforts you have received a lot of money from the Recovery Fund. Do you welcome the programme of young farmers, which in his pre-publishment shows what it is? That you are massively blocking young farmers because, to join, they need large-scale farms. For example, when in the country the average lot is forty - eight acres, to include the farmer the oil industry you require seventy - eight acres. How many people will you rule out, how many farmers, how many farmers? We are now coming to the problem of Hellenism. You'd solve it. You also made a law to tighten sentences. Except you didn't say they all were on parole. Let us not talk about what you then bring about the people's markets. Today, the reactions to the people's markets are great. They are also against producers and consumers. You gave - he says - money. What have coastal fishermen received, 94%, from the set-aside programme? What have aquaculture been taken? What have the lagoons taken? What's with the cotton? What's with the oranges? What has poultry farming, pig farming, cattle farming, fascist producers, lentil producers and reptiles, fall potato potatoes? You have reached the point where you share the same product with the spring producers to give the autumn producers no. That's not the end of the list. In these circumstances, therefore, farmers are forced to promote their products on unfavourable terms. A few examples are open price, blackmail for the non-use of the product, advance delicacy, cancellations of agreements without prior notice, and all with unilateral imposition by the most economically powerful. So, within this complex process, there are problems of legal and practical nature that the directive can actually incorporate can provide a way out. It is very good that you have changed after the debate in the committees and reduced the turnover of the buyers below 2 million and is counted positively. From there on, however, there are other points that want attention, such as the absence of the permanent mechanism. What does the absence of the permanent mechanism say? That only cases will be referred after a complaint. And here's the same recipe as pandemic, individual responsibility, not state. But law enforcement is, gentlemen, the responsibility of the state and cannot be passed on to the citizens. I consider the blow of unfair practices to be something that he wants all the time. It's not over with this legislation. We must all help together to ensure a decent living for farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Tyloridou. Until the Step is ready, I would like to restore one truth, because it has disturbed me as a human being and then as Vice-President of the House. It was said by the Step of the House that the officials of the House do not wear the mask and that we should set an example. Suddenly, I went through all the offices. All the officers in this House wear the mask. I didn't notice anything like that. I'm not saying that my colleague lied. To God. Maybe it was the moment. But not to say such things from the Stepma, because we are red cloth for other things, not to make our position worse. All the officials in this House normally wear the mask, which is why cases are very few here, and even those who are stuck, stuck out of here, not in the House. The reason for a minute is the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much. On the occasion of the intervention of Mrs Tyloridou, who said, among other things, that most primary production branches are not compensated, I will only say three things in relation to what she has said. You said Mrs. Tylorid that we are confusing the spring with the autumn potato. I should like to inform you that the joint ministerial decision has been signed by Mr Pylakakakis and the Minister, as envisaged, for the aid of EUR 11 918 000,85 for the autumn potato.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u140	I am pleased that you are responding to our questions and our pressures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u141	If you mean the current pressure, this decision has been signed and this proposal has been worked out by the Ministry's services for some time. As far as coastal fishing is concerned, let us say that our fishermen have received around EUR 12 million. You know that, Mrs Tyridou, the amount is 11 299 293 in particular, and as far as the temporary cessation of fishing activities is concerned about EUR 20 million, that is, 19.070,000 and something. In any case, because he said about pig farming and all other sectors, I very briefly repeat that we have both eyes and ears openly owed. Every request is examined thoroughly and the necessary documentation dossier is necessary in order to get the green light from the European Commission and not to be regarded as illegal state aid. All this, of course, wisely, with justice, within the framework of the country's budgetary possibilities. But in any case, I do not think - with the objectivity that needs to be seen - you can underestimate the money that has so far been given to the primary sector to deal with the real unprecedented pandemic, such as COVID. The proposal for pig farming exists at the Ministry, has worked and we expect to see the relevant findings to start our moves accordingly. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, because what I said has been distorted, I want thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u143	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u144	First of all for the autumn potato, Mr President, the question was raised on 11 November and the producers have been anxious for months now. We have April 7th. As far as coastal fishermen and the set-aside programme are concerned, the State Secretary and the Ministry of Rural Development are concerned rather than addressing producers who from fourteen thousand thirty coastal fishermen were excluded from the thirteen thousand to thirty-three hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u145	Thank you. Mr. Kotsos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that this year's world health day has become of special importance, since the horn pandemic has run to remind us in the best way possible, or if you want the most dramatic way, the supreme good of our health. Of course, we do not think about this health process when it does not touch us, when we do not feel sick, we neglect it, we neglect it, and we owe a great deal of thanks to all those people who serve this sector, doctors, nurses, the administrative staff of hospitals, the injured. In particular, to thank public health, the public health system that is trying to meet the best possible conditions against this unprecedented epidemiological and health crisis we are facing. I'm sure we'll all be able to get away soon from this magnificence. Today we are discussing a draft law on the primary sector, a structural pillar of our national economy, a structural pillar of our country's development, the primary sector that supports rural areas, which supports the people of hardship, the people of the sector, which supports a sensitive, vulnerable sector, which is exposed from everywhere, mainly by weather phenomena. We in Karditsa experienced this in the most dramatic way six, seven months ago with the phenomenon of 'Janu'. Fortunately at the wheel of the country there is Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy and we have been able in very short time to ease these wounds through the brave, dynamic and effective compensation granted. As has been said, the primary sector is about a large part of the population, and especially about that part of the population that keeps the modern Thermopylae standing, keeps the countryside in Greece alive, and we must keep it alive and strengthen the countryside in Greece through the strengthening of livestock farming and agriculture. Because if our villages are devastated and further then we'll talk of lost homelands inside our country. But here we have to ask ourselves what primary sector we are talking about and what primary sector we want when our country's primary sector at the moment has the great problem of ageing, the multi-currency of the clergy and the many structural problems that it deserves and we need to resolve in the shortest time to rekindle it, rekindle it and give it the place it deserves in the national economy. The restructuring of crops, therefore, will bring added value to our farmer. But because the restructuring of crops has been invoked by too many in the past, it is important to know where we are targeting, where we are going and, above all, to know our ultimate goal. You will remember, of course, once ministers will lead our farmers to culture, such as blackberries, but without having ensured the whole network of the disposal and distribution of these products that were left to rot in the hands of the producers. We need a specific political will, a concrete policy of exploiting all of this, so that our farmers really have quality life and live in the countryside on the best possible terms. I say this because, unfortunately, the producer does not enjoy all the value of the products he produces today. Unfortunately, through the process of selling the products, with the intervention of too many intermediaries, the producer enjoys the lowest possible benefit while the consumer pays the highest possible cost. It is important that we achieve what is evangelized by many: from the field directly to the fork. And there is no better way to do that, believe me, Minister, than the people's markets. That is where the producer, without intervening intermediaries, has the possibility of making his product at the lowest possible price possible for him. The logic, philosophy and culture of the province's peoples are different from the one found in the large urban centres, especially in Athens. That is why we need to see with great sensitivity all this process in the bill which will come so that we do not prevent our farmers from being able to reach, reach and reach the consumer by achieving the greatest profit for them at the least possible cost for the people who enjoy agricultural products. A great issue for our farmers is the fact that they despise co-operation. They detest co-operation because of the bad practices that have been experienced in the past, the unsuccessful process which has condemned an excellent concept, co-operation, through partyism, through people who have wrongly served this institution. It is necessary for our farmers to be able to organise themselves in cooperative shapes in order to meet the best possible market challenges. Because alone and alone are vulnerable to market rules. I will not agree with you at all that we are in favour of the inconsistency, without market rules. We are in favour of the free market by rules, with a view to and at the same time giving the people who make use of the free market a chance. The excellent idea, therefore, of cooperation should be rekindled and at the same time a premium should be granted. It is a one-way for farmers to be able to face up to the challenges, to buy their supplies and their products at the lowest possible price, but to place their production at the highest possible price. Let us not forget that without water there is no agricultural production. And I say this for Thessaly where the water deficit in the underground water horizon touches the three billion cubic meters of water, and it is necessary to strengthen Thessaly's Kampos from the partial transport of water from the top of Acheloos. It is an incomplete work that unfortunately has become a modern bridge of Arta. It will, however, give the farmers of Thessaly additional prospects. Here I should like to acknowledge that, thanks to the inconvenient efforts of the Ministry and the government in the Recovery Fund, a significant sum of EUR 200 million has been allocated to leverage private funds in order to respond to this issue. Let me raise two final points, Mr President, if I may. One has to do with the agricultural photovoltaics. In order to provide an additional income to our farmers, I believe it is necessary to increase capacity from 100 KW to 500 KW without losing farmers' status. Like also the use of net metering to dismantle farmers from energy consumption and electricity. Finally, what I would like to say is about the safety of farmers. You know that too many farmers are unable to satisfy their insurance contributions. It is therefore not possible to retire. The effective proposal, I believe, is to issue the pension decision at the outset by submitting the file and then not to pay the pensions of the beneficiary until that amount has been paid. Why is it today? If a hundred and twenty-dollar arrangement is in place, they can be eliminated or if you want to offset the remaining 6,000 euros they have to pay. If they have not entered the process of a hundred and twenty instalments then they only offset the 4,000 euros and pay the rest of what too many farmers cannot do. I think we should move on to this regulation. To be issued by the pension scheme and to be withheld from them until all the amount due has been repaid. I am sure, Minister, that we will actually manage the agricultural sector, the primary sector, to make it a leader of our national economy and our farmers and our farmers proud of what they are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Kotso. We're going to the colleagues from Webex. The curtain will be opened by Mrs. Sunday Malama from SYRIZA and from Halkidiki, which is only one. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today on combating unfair trade practices in the rural economy does not go as far as it should be. It could become a useful tool if it is implemented in practice and if we are actually strengthening it, incorporating mechanisms aimed at distortions by product and by the productive sector of our rural economy. In this context, I would like to address very specifically the issue of green olive, the table olive of Halkidiki, which last year fell victim to unfair commercial practices with the tolerance of the government. Very briefly, I would like to remind you that the producer of the green olive of Halkidiki last year was paid on average 70 minutes a kilo of its production while the kilo of processed green olives in a supermarket has 15 euros. I repeat, 70 minutes in the field, 15 euros in the shelf. Why did this happen? Why did the producers' pay for a product that is sought on the markets and where the production of Halkidiki does not make it possible to meet the needs of domestic and international demand? Why in a cigarette product - just to say it - all of it close to 2 billion the producer took 70 minutes? Because very simply price manipulation has taken place, because the big processors, who are multinational companies, exploiting lockdown and despair from farmers, have broken prices to only five of the harvest. This has erupted a great mobilisation of farmers with large concentrations in Ormulia, Halkidiki, while we also denounced the incident in the Competition Committee. I myself testified there. We brought the matter to the House, but the government let the damage be done. We might get into the same pathogens this year. We would therefore like to formally state from the Step of the House our proposal to create a timely and fair mechanism for setting up the price of the green olive of Halkidiki so that no one can blackmail the farmer at only five at the time of harvest. We have sent this proposal to the institutional bodies, sent it to the farmers and the citizens of Halkidiki, and we invite them to take a stand. In particular, this proposal includes a mechanism for the negotiation of the price of olive oil where objective indicators will be examined and in this negotiations producers, processors, mayors, GEOTE, the Competition Committee and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food will take part on the same table. This negotiation will gradually take place according to each growing stage of olive oil, will be certified by the experts, i.e. by the farmers, the estimate of production, the so-called 'hard indicators', such as the fluctuation in olive oil prices in retail trade and exports, the prices of agricultural supplies, the costs of labour, the cost of water, the costs of handling oilseeds. At the end of this process will result in a fair range of prices which will bind all those involved. In this way the farmer will have a fair reward from his hard work, the dealer will have a product of goodwill and the product as a whole will improve his reputation, his brand, that is, his brand, and ultimately the economy of Halkidiki will gain even greater value than the green olive. The main element of this process will be the Olive Breeding Register that will be upgraded, so that we have the exact variation of production per year directly available, as well as the other technical elements of the crop that shape the olive price. In this effort we want and call on the three municipalities of Halkidiki, within which the production of the table olive is evolving, to take a leading role, the mayors of the Municipalities of Polygyros, Nea Protodida and Kassandra. We want the negotiating committee to be chaired by the mayors, supervised by the municipal councils, so that the negotiation will also have social accountability, which we consider necessary. The green olive of Halkidiki cannot negotiate with ultimatum literally in closed offices. They must all have a picture of the product's course and they must all protect its dynamics. We also call on the Interprofessional Organisation of the Olive Table to participate in the negotiation, because it has every interest in acting with social corporate responsibility. We recall that the demand for the green olive of Halkidiki is enormous. As a consequence, obtaining the product and a seal... (It has not been heard because of bad connection) it will be another gain that will strengthen it even more to the Greek consumer, but also to the markets abroad. We therefore put forward our proposal to create a mechanism for setting a fair price mechanism for green olives, which can also function as a pilot for other agricultural products. We will continue with the Halkidiki farmers in their efforts to regulate the green olive market. We all hope that they understand this need and move on as they should. Our proposal has several technical details. It is the result of a methodical study of the problems of the rural olive economy of Halkidiki. We put it in Parliament's plenary - there is already there - inviting all the parties involved to take a position. We don't want to see last year's problems again. This year we do not believe that the green olive of Halkidiki is worth 70 cents. We will always be next to the farmers - we are saying this - in order to literally defend their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mrs Malama, and thank you for keeping time. Mr Athanasios Ljupis has the floor. Get Mr. Gokas and Mr. Bartzokas ready. Mr. Lippe, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is a key pillar of primary production for our country, valuable to the economic chain in Greece. The new directive that we are incorporating today sets the target of unfair trade practices which damage economic producers and suppliers, while at the same time excessively bringing the final price of the product up to the consumer. In today's bill, sixteen unfair practices are introduced, of which ten are absolutely prohibitive under any circumstances. For example, a specific strict framework is laid down in relation to the repayment time of producers for the products they sell. For the first time the buyer should have paid the producer back within 30 days when it comes to defective agricultural products and foodstuffs or in sixty days when it comes to other agricultural products. It shall be prohibited to cancel the order on the part of the buyer for defective agricultural goods less than 30 days. In order to cope with the usual practice of charging the supplier at an additional unrelated cost, such as backward tariffs, any payment of the supplier to the buyer not related to the purchase of agricultural products shall be prohibited. Another phenomenon which is prohibited by the current provisions is to burden the supplier with the cost of destroying the products, even when they are owned by the buyer. Very important in order to ensure producers it is also a provision prohibiting buyers from committing them to specific quantities of products to be delivered, without at the same time having a commitment to the purchase price. Of course, any restrictions have no value unless there are at the same time the mechanism to detect infringements and impose the penalties provided for. In this context, it is recommended to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food that the Anti-Fraud Committee under the chairmanship of the Legal Board of the State. The Competition Committee is engaged in infringements of legislation by buyers with an annual turnover of more than EUR 50 million, when it has already been imposed on them in the last eighteen months of a fine of at least 1% of the turnover. Those two authorities shall examine cases of possible infringements either of their own motion or following a complaint. Most importantly, however, the provision of an interim procedure is covered by the need for rapid intervention in the event that the agricultural supply chain is at serious risk. Then the Commission has the power to take immediate insurance measures and threaten the offender with a fine of up to EUR 2 000 for every day of non-compliance. An essential contribution to the directive that is incorporated is that it speeds up cooperation between the authorities in each Member State and thus creates a pan-European umbrella of unfair practices between producers and buyers throughout the European Union. There was criticism on the part of the Opposition, because the legislative framework that we are discussing does not include purchasers of agricultural products making an annual turnover of less than EUR 2 million. But you are forgetting that the aim of the directive is to protect weak producers against excessively strong buyers. Buyers exempted under the current regulations do not normally have the economic power to impose unfavourable and unbearable conditions on farmers. The other provisions of the bill include the electronic auction of real estate belonging to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. The overall provision adopted in the middle of the pandemic concerning the possibility that farmers may renew or conclude loan contracts for up to EUR 25 000 without requiring insurance information. This measure has facilitated the financing of farmers at this difficult time. The regulation on the system for the provision of agricultural advisory services through the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 is also worthwhile. In general, the negative dimensions of pandemic have been added to the agricultural sector. In order to balance these effects, more than 180 million farmers have already been allocated by way of a repayable advance and 150 million in the form of direct payments. At the same time, the Government has launched the support of the agriculture sector through its plan for the use of the funds of the Recovery Fund. For example, the construction of large irrigation works in Thessaly is planned to strengthen agricultural production. Today's bill creates a protective framework so that farmers are not vain in the hands of the most robust economic traders. To some extent, the balance of power between producers and buyers is restored. Agricultural employment is by definition an activity under precarious conditions, with vulnerable products, whose fate depends on uncertain factors such as weather conditions. However, the agricultural world must feel safe that the current government will defend its rights and interests in the best way possible. With today's amendment tabled by the Minister, the possibility of carrying out a preliminary task for 2021, which also concerns the oil producer in Pelion. This addresses the question of the timely implementation of the cut-off scheme until May and June when the work of the programme sprays needs to be started, in order to ensure reliable protection of the olive fruit and the quality and quantity of the expected production of olive growers. Minister, on the homicide, I restore the proposal to fund the integrated olive toll monitoring and control system with electronic traps and sprays with drones, an innovative and ecological pilot proposal from the School of Political Science and Electrical Engineering of the University of Thessaly in collaboration with the Region of Thessaly. I ask you to understand the need to implement it, which is pending, although it has the agreement of your staff partners at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Lippi, too. And from Volos to Arta, Mr. Christo Goka of the Change Movement. Here, Mr Goka, seven minutes is at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill attempts to combat unfair trade practices with provisions that aim to protect suppliers - agricultural producers, who are also the weakest in the vertical chain of supply of agricultural products and foodstuffs to purchasers. Producers have suffered and suffered the consequences of unfair commercial practices in the marketing of their products. Also, illegal Greekizations and the lack of quality controls on imports of agricultural products create unfair competition, while we had the recent case of flawed feta, which saw the light of publicity, which undermines the Greek PDO feta. All these issues and the problems arising should be the subject of an integrated legislative framework with regulations, preventive mechanisms and measures to prevent unfair effects at the expense of producers' leverage and income. Only through an integrated framework can Greek production be supported and developed, with added value for its Greek and quality products, will competitiveness be strengthened and exports increased. The special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Panas, was placed in detail in his report on the bill and our positive position towards it. Minister, for our part as a Change Movement through many parliamentary interventions in questions, reports and others, we have raised the general situation in the primary sector. Instead of strengthening - since we all agree that it is a key pillar for our country's productive and development reconstruction - it is constantly weakened by the previous government of SYRIZA and by the current government, since aid for the primary sector is lacking under support measures from the pandemic, with the exception of a few exceptions, while the forecasts for resources from various programmes relating to the primary sector in the next period, particularly in terms of production and the agri-food sector, are disappointing. We also referred to yesterday's debate on the plan for the Recovery and Resilience Fund. We have pointed this out on the basis of the allocation of resources under the National Recovery Programme 2021-2027, where of the 6,85 billion to be channelled into development, only 28 million have the Ministry of Rural Development as a recipient. On the other hand, integration into the plan for the recovery of irrigation works through the PPP means a further burden on the primary sector, the farmers, who will use the water for irrigation. As far as the current situation is concerned, farmers, farmers, farmers, farmers and fishermen are faced with a number of problems, particularly due to the increase in production costs with increases in feedingstuffs of up to 60%, but also in energy, such as the charge on oil from the green end, but also on other necessary agricultural supplies. Moreover, there is a delay in payment of aid and subsidies or compensation, while we are at the beginning of the growing season. Nor was there any margin of suspension for payment of debts, insurance or instalments by regulated debts. Whole branches remain out of aid. Farmers from Arta know very well, like the Farming Cooperative, that they have so far no help at all in this difficult period. The same applies to beekeeping and aquaculture sectors outside State aid. Minister, the aid given - Mr Economou mentioned - is very few in relation to the problems that exist in all sectors in the primary sector, and it is well known that, due to the restrictive measures taken by the pandemic, with the closure of focus and hotels, demand has been reduced. The prices of agricultural and livestock products are now very low and even degrading. The reduction in demand, but also other factors, brought very low prices to meat, but also to livestock products, such as chicken and milk, as well as to agricultural products, for example, in the case of olive and citrus prices. Any aid granted only covers the damage, and a solution must be found for those who have been excluded from the aid granted for olive oil. I have asked questions and a timely one about the problem of the citrus fruits of Arta, which is a more general problem. Half the quantities were left in the trees due to weather. Diseases were caused and destroyed, because only half of them - and not even - could they be sold. For clementines and mandarins there was no demand and from what was sold, almost half, as I said, was given half of last year's price, which did not even cover production costs. The same happened in oranges. However, the Ministry's replies so far show no concrete and specific measures to cover the loss of farmers' incomes. The same applies to the incomes of farmers and fishermen for their necessary support. Minister, you must answer when and how you will support and strengthen the income of farmers in the agricultural sector. First of all, they must survive themselves and their families and then be able to continue to produce, cultivate, maintain the breeding of the animal population. You have been too late and specific measures need to be announced. Also, problems are growing. The resulting changes to popular markets are at the expense of producers, small suppliers. The agricultural sector cannot withstand any more suffering, such as the one resulting from the suspension of forest maps and the advancement of the register. It is the public itself to correct obvious mistakes. It is the state's responsibility to support weakened forest services that cannot bear this burden. In closing, Minister, I hope you will also give solutions to other outstanding issues, such as the outstanding farmers of the improvement plans, the OPEKEPE, the allocation of farmers' rights from the national reserve and the reduction of 10% in the payments of the single payment in December for six hundred thousand producers. OPEKEPE is depriving producers of a number of payments, but also other services, and makes it difficult for them to access agricultural loans as a result of delays in OSE declarations. Also, the reform of the ELGA regulation, after the full inertia of 2015-2019 by SYRIZA, is delayed by you and also by financial and technical support for the setting-up of producer groups. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are voting today's bill, which is one of the necessary instruments to protect Greek products and the income of producers. However, as I have said, the agri-foodstuffs world is giving a risk signal and there must be initiatives, actions and decisions on effective financial support and support immediately. The primary sector is particularly critical not only for those involved in it, but also for the general course of our country's productive and development reconstruction. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u153	Be well, Mr. Goka. And from Arta we will go to Imathia, to the peaches and to Mr Anastasio Bartzokas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, all Members of Parliament who come from regions such as Imathia, in which the farmer takes the lead, are at first hand aware of the hardship, anguish and daily difficulties. We know that involvement with the earth is a constant burn and a constant risk. Throughout the growing process and the sale of agricultural products to the buyer, the producer is vulnerable and vulnerable. He fights insecurity and unpredictable. It is subject to changes in the weather, which more and more often, due to climate change, are affecting its production and thus its incomes very much, giving it a fundamental issue of survival. Climate change is currently becoming the number one threat to the rural economy, maximising the risk the agricultural producer takes. In Imathia last month, ten to fifteen days ago, just before the harvest began, the frost in March caused almost complete destruction of the trees, such as peaches, apricots, cherries and other crops in almost all the garden. The Minister knows them because they're from a neighboring county. I, too, know very well that producers are in despair. I know that the procedures for recording and assessing damages, despite the fact that they have started faster this time, are delaying, with the delay in the payment of compensation being delayed. But cultures do not understand red tape, they do not understand procedures. From this step, then, Minister, I am giving you the voice of my fellow citizens, of the farmers, who are calling for the support of the state. I am sure that the entire political leadership of the Ministry will be next to our farmers. They ask for their immunity through preventive mechanisms and tools that will minimise their vulnerability to weather phenomena. They ask for timely and fair compensation. They ask that the day-to-day battle they fight with the earth be more equitable. So we all realise that the agricultural supply chain without the farmer does not exist and in this chain we cannot allow the producer to be the weakest link. We must therefore strengthen and support this position. In this perspective, any legislative action that strengthens the position of the producer, but also of cooperative associations, processors and smaller traders, to the least possible, such as the incorporation of the European directive we are debating today, is absolutely welcome. Among all difficulties is the phenomenon of simple producer, cooperative, processor, having to negotiate and deal with unfair practices imposed by all-powerful traders. Late payments, cancellations to orders or cancellations at the last minute, adverse amendments to agreements, trade retaliations and so on are only one of the ‘grey’ practices involving the most powerful and weakening the livelihood of producers. The protective framework established by this draft law upgrades its defence relatively weaker than the relatively strongest. Sets barriers to exploitation phenomena by the strongest, which cause significant downward price depression, neutralising either individual producers or those active in collective patterns. However, although the provisions of the bill are in a positive spirit and are moving towards the benefit of the economically weaker, I must highlight individual issues focusing on the application of the law. The bill provides, on the one hand, for the possibility of denouncing unfair practices, on the other hand, the setting-up of a committee within the Ministry of Rural Development, with the task of examining complaints and own-initiative scrutiny. It is necessary, before the law is implemented, to implement all administrative measures in order to function effectively, and this means staffing and specialising them with the subject. In addition, I fully agree with the position put forward for the planning of regular screening of buyers. Experience teaches us that the precautionary framework is often preferable to the repressive, in the case of sanctions with an administrative fine. It prevents infringements of legislation, ultimately protecting the weak, because for businesses all-powerful, i.e. with a very high turnover, the control of the complaint and the imposition of a fine is not an important incentive. Finally, I think it is important to clearly define the amount of time paid for agricultural products by buyers, cooperatives and members. In other words, it is not enough to provide only for the protection of cooperatives in their trades with businesses, but also for the producers who make up them. In closing my position, I would like to express my favourable opinion on the provision by which the possibility for mainstream professional farmers to conclude and renew financial contracts up to EUR 25,000 without presentation... (not heard because of a poor connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Bartzokas, your last proposal, please take it from the beginning, because you haven't heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u156	Is the sound lost, Mr. President? Okay. In closing my position, I would also like to express my positive opinion on the provision that the main professional farmers may conclude and renew financial contracts up to EUR 25 000 without the presentation of insurance information. I therefore consider it extremely important at this difficult time that the state stand by the agricultural world, whose contribution to the Greek economy is decisive. It is true that I am voting in favour of the bill and I expect the government to do everything it has announced to make the primary sector first again. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Bartzokas. The Minister has asked for the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u158	In order to make it possible for colleagues to see it, it is simply the legislative improvements that we have already said orally. Don't read them. It is about changing the amount from 2,000,000 to 500,000. I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Liutas has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Trikala.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u160	Good evening from the beautiful Trikala. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u161	Few people know the Trikala has a beach. A few people know that. You have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u162	Sure. Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, it didn't sound because of a bad connection and the strengthening of our primary production. With this bill at the forefront, there is also the practical support of our state and government to the six hundred and fifty thousand farmers and farmers in our country. Today we incorporate Directive 633/2019 into Greek law, which deals with unfair commercial practices in relations between businesses, in the agricultural and food supply chain. These are important regulations, as it is true that the Greek producer has often been found to be the most vulnerable and weakest link in the supply chain. In particular, with the incorporation of this Union Directive,...(not heard because of a poor connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Liuta, your last proposal, tell her from the beginning, because you haven't heard of her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u164	We do not have a good signal today at the heart of our region and I am very sorry about that. We support our national primary production and our national and regional development. This draft law introduces a number of provisions under which the producer will be protected in his trade. In particular, a number of practices that are now unfair will be banned. Among the very critical and important points contained in this text, I would like to focus in particular on the following points. Firstly, specific payment periods are set for agricultural products and we oblige the buyer to pay in thirty days the supplier for the purchase of sensitive agricultural products. ...(not heard because of bad connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u165	Unfortunately, we have lost because of a poor connection between Mr Liuta and I would ask him to send us his speech on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u166	We will continue with Mr Karasmanis from Pella and New Democracy. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mr Karasmani.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation into national law of Community Directive 2019/633 is certainly a useful tool in the wider area of the marketing and processing of our livestock products by combating unavoidable practices in order to protect both producers and producers' incomes, as well as the interests of the consumer. I will not extend to the directive. The rapporteur, like the Minister in committee, has been mentioned in detail, but also Mr Economou, the State Secretary, and Mrs Arabatzi, the State Secretary. In particular, following the improvements made by the Minister, I welcome his decision. The provisions of the directive will be adapted to domestic needs and standard practices in order to protect Greek farmers and farmers. In combination with the establishment and creation of a strong mechanism for monitoring and implementing the procedures provided for in the Community directive, I hope that the real benefits of its regulations will have a real positive response to the daily life of the Greek farmer. I hope that the real benefits of its regulations will have a real positive effect on the daily life of the Greek farmer. As an important I appreciate Article 18 by granting the property managed by the Ministry by a ministerial decision and not by the Presidential Decree, i.e. without the bureaucratic time-consuming procedures of the former regime. I would even suggest that young farmers should take the lead. Article 19 also allows farmers to enter into a loan of up to EUR 25 000 without having to produce the proof of their insurance information, which is, of course, already provided and extended until the end of the year because of the pandemic. I shall, however, dwell more on Article 20, which refers to the M2 Programme with a total budget of EUR 125 000, adopted by our government on my own behalf, which concerns the general advisers and provides for the free transmission of knowledge through the proper scientific guidance and information for new technologies and knowledge, contributing decisively to the improvement of agricultural production. The budget estimated the 125 million. It was limited to 80 million because of the aid which has been spent - and rightly so - on tackling the effects of the ice in the agricultural sector. However, it should be possible for certified geologists in the public and private sectors to give advice to farmers by giving an account directly to the ELGO - "DIMITRA" as envisaged in the original plan. Thus, they will not only benefit from the programme's funds through the creation of consultancy companies, as expected by the previous government. And I want that, Mr. Minister to notice. In any case, I believe that a substantial step is being taken today to protect the agricultural income which legally contributes to the significant protection of the rural and social fabric in sensitive areas of our country. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the time has come for this net to be extended to other areas. Because we cannot tell farmers to produce quality and competitive agricultural products by ensuring only good cultivation, production and export practices. At the same time, we must also provide them with the supply of crop insurance and their crops with adverse weather conditions and the effects of climate change, which are increasingly affecting our country - and, in particular, the countryside. Our producers are facing great problems today. We have growers who were beaten by the frost on March 24 and 26, but early and medium-sized cherry varieties are not included in the list of damages. The reason is found in the discernment among producers who first know that their trees were beaten in full flowering and in ELGA claiming to be in the pre-anthic stage. Such discernments and controversies cannot continue and perpetuate. The solution exists and is Article 71 of Law No 4235/2014, an amendment of mine, which was voted for by all the parties in the House that covers all the damages from adverse weather phenomena. We have even linked this article to M17 of the 200 million Community funds which, unfortunately, the previous government has abolished. With the law and the article that's being voted, we can activate it. And since the same problem existed last year, let us consider the position of these people who are only some of them growers, without income for two years and without compensation. How will they and their families survive? Of course, the leadership of the Ministry of Finance has said it will bring about a bill on natural disasters, where there will be a provision covering damage from extreme weather phenomena, a consequence of climate change. It is a hope for producers and they are waiting for it. Also, since last year there has been a problem with affected producers, which within the initial chaos of the pandemic with quarantine, and the measures have not been able to make temporary statements of the damage to trees from the frost of 17 March because they did not have easy access or Internet familiarity. They have come to despair and come to me and say: "I have my trees declared in the IACC, I have normally paid my insurance contributions and in the chaos of the quarantine I didn't get a ham that I had to go to a box to put my provisional statement and you're excluding me from compensation. And on top, you tell me as a government and as a ministry that you will not leave a single Greek producer without support. But you're leaving me. I don't have any more income. So tell me, how am I going to live my family?" What are we responding to these desperate people, Minister? And it's not just them. There are those who, while making temporary statements in the same mess, did not make the final statements. Those in confusion also declared other varieties in the provisional and others in the final statements. While the ELGA Regulation provides for late statements due to an unforeseen event, in this regard, but... here I stop. On the other hand, there was a considerable relief with the decision you made, to support 24.2 million spring, autumn potato, tomatoes, cucumber and outdoor watermelon, very well and targeted. I hope compensation will be given as soon as possible. But those who cultivate outdoors with green horticulture must also be compensated for, because at the time of the pandemic production was in full, their crop was indisposed and rotted. I have sent all the documents proving the size of the damage they have suffered, as well as the supporting documents and evidence for compensation for greenhouse gases. After all, a fair criterion for the loss of income is the statements to the IACC. This can be seen from everyone. As they also expect compensation, and the producers of cold-seed grapes and the “fine of Edessa”, which, due to the sharp decline in tourism and the closed focus, the crops have remained unavailable. But also the lotus, entire farms were left unintentionally. I've sent the evidence from photos that prove the damage. I believe that there will be a similar decision on compensation for these people as well. I also believe that both the cotton producers and the tobacco producers whose collective bodies have sent all the information, I believe that they will be examined by the committee responsible and, if it turns out that there is damage, I am sure we will proceed with compensation within the narrow margins of the financial area, of course. Finally, I think it is a great mistake to compensate peaches producers for the rains of August with de minimis. I've proved it from the outset that there will be injustices. I have shown that under the Rules of Procedure of the ELGA, like the Deputy Minister, Mrs Arabatzi, these damages are immediate and are covered by the Agency and we should not allow them to be repeated, as the previous government has been unacceptably involved in 2017 and 2018. If the Minister, Mr. Lebanese and Mr. Skylakakis, the Deputy Minister of Finance did not have the openness, flexibility and sensitivity to give this compensation against the 2019 Peach Income CARs by 2020, the Minister understands what I mean, today these producers would be uncovered. It is therefore imperative, Mr President - and I am closing - to make the ELGA economically sound, efficient and flexible in order to fully respond to its task, which is no more than the protection of agricultural income. And this can be done with tripartite funding, producers' insurance contributions, the use of Community funds, as we did with measure M17 with the EUR 200 million and the funds from the state budget. For the latter part, we must recognise the Prime Minister's decisive decision to strengthen the Agency for the first time since 2010 to EUR 70 million from the state budget and compensation is now paid to 100% and not in instalments. This decision shows us the way. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr Karasmani. I would ask you, Mr President, if you can hear me, to submit your speech to the authors because, because of the poor Internet connection, there were some unheard of points. Let's go to Mr. Papaliou from Arcadia and SYRIZA, with which we'll close the list of speakers. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law incorporates a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, I would say in a formal way but not essential, so that the legislation has voids and shortcomings, to suffer. This is because neither the existing institutional framework nor the living reality, i.e. the size of the Greek economy and economic agents, are taken into account in primary production. The main issue facing the directive - and the bill should be more appropriately addressed - is the disadvantaged, the weak position of agricultural producers in the agri-food chain with regard to wholesalers and retail chains which exploit them when trading prices and in general trading. It is the producers who are at risk and at risk of financial risk, as they are in a fragile position and have long waited for payment. The result is to compress their income, to be disappointed many times - we see it, I would say, and this is accelerating - they are forced to leave agricultural production, of course, no young people enter it. Whilst the incorporation of this directive could be a good opportunity - and perhaps it is a good opportunity - to deal with the practice of open price, which is widely applied and which violates the rules of good trade, it is excluded from protection against this practical part of trade. Small and medium-sized commercial enterprises with an annual turnover below a certain level are left out. On the basis of this restriction, in the end, the arrangement remains unobjective. The draft incorporation of the directive would have to be a complement to Law 4492/2017. This law is not mentioned. Why, is that so? It would therefore be necessary to use the existing legislative framework for fresh and vulnerable products. This legislation has shaped a balance between producers and traders, eliminating and, yet, limiting the effects of unjustified and abusive taxes that led to payments in many months' delays. The directive could therefore be incorporated in this context in order to address the disastrous practice of open price, which is unfortunately widely applied in our country in contravention of good trade rules. This price is paid by the rural world, the rural economy and society in general. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o It did not require the annual turnover of the buyers, as the present draft law does, therefore, concern small and medium-sized traders. In addition, it clearly defined the buyer as each natural person or legal person that purchases, processs, brokering, on the market, for the purpose of wholesale or retail sale of fresh and vulnerable domestic agricultural products. And I now come to three separate articles. Article 3 of the bill could introduce a more stringent and targeted framework in favour of the supplier. With this, however, the provisions of the directive are merely copying them, without any intervention to prevent unfair practices which are largely and frequently predominant in our country and which will result in the effective protection of the producer. The good news is that the repayment period of the producers, which is set at a maximum of 30 days after the sale of the essential products from sixty days laid down in Law 4492/2017, is significantly reduced. In view of the fact that L.4492 applies to all traders in GFCM regardless of turnover, the sixty days are valid, while the current bill for these traders - buyers with a turnover above a certain amount is finally valid for thirty days. The problem is the provision of Article 4, which allows agreements between the two parties to be concluded which leave the producers unprotected and opens them a large window for a series of opaque clauses and unfair practices. In addition, Article 3(4) of the Directive is not incorporated in the draft law, i.e. the paragraph which provides that Member States shall ensure that the prohibitions laid down, constitute and prevail as compulsory provisions applicable in any situation falling within the scope of the prohibitions, irrespective of the law which would otherwise apply to the supply agreement between the parties. This paragraph is a safety net which clarifies that the bans under incorporation will generally prevail and will not be invalidated on a case-by-case basis by agreements which are of course concluded on the basis of those provided for in national law. It is clear that without incorporation of this regulation a perforated regulation is actually proposed, since imported law will not prevail. Finally, another problem of the bill is in Article 5 the committee responsible for combating unfair trade practices. It is the one that can impose fines, and only in common practice should it be recommended and fines imposed by an authority, such as the Secretary-General. However, there are issues in the effectiveness of the committee's work, which is why it is necessary for the committee to work with the staff necessary to carry out the task assigned to it. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's top of the country's socially fair productive reconstruction is the primary sector. No one disputes that, all the Parliament's wings recognize it. It is a question of what content we attach to this productive reconstruction. The production of agricultural and livestock products combined with their processing, movement and marketing are an integral part of the agri-food chain. Its reassurance is therefore an element that protects and benefits the producer, the consumer and the Greek production, in particular the quality of products which are differentiated by climatic and territorial conditions and in many sectors are higher than its competitors. So this is not always done with the current bill, it is done in part. It is, however, a step which must be followed by others that the government must promote, so that the Greek farmer, the Greek farmer, is not a slave to his destiny and, above all, does not depend on mood, on the interests of organized interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr. Katrinis, wants to ask the Minister for Legislative Matters. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u171	I won't need a minute, Mr President. Taking advantage of the presence of the Minister and as the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Economou, referred to the compensation given due to COVID, I would like to say that we disagree on the Government's view that the greatest possible part is being given. Anyway, these allowances are being paid to the country's financial framework. They are transferring me that especially in the case of Achaea, Elias and Messinia for the high autumn potato, Minister, because they have not been declared to the IACC, while they have been declared to the ELGA because of time restrictions. And because there is one issue with the IACS and because your State Secretary has mentioned that compensation will be granted and that the decision has already been made, I would like you to take care that no producer, who has normally declared his cultivation to the ELGA and who has suffered damages due to COVID, will be excluded for any formal reason from it even the bolted compensation you give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u172	Minister, will you answer or give the floor to Mr Georgioda?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u173	I shall reply later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u174	Mr Georgios has the floor for the amendment which he has just tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now share the amendment necessary for the operation of the electronic platform for the registration and electronic management of the results of the self-diagnostic test for coronary disease, the so-called self-test. As has been announced by the government, and as I think you are all aware, tomorrow will be the trial post of this platform and will be operational since Sunday, in order to accept the results of the self-diagnosis that will be done by teachers and students in the first phase, so that we can take the plan that has been announced to follow, as well as the general population, but also all those who are obliged to use this specific diagnostic test and belong to specific professional groups. The self-diagnosis weapon comes to be added to the tools we currently have and use, so that we can make the detection of the virus, especially so that we can identify asymptomatic agents, as well as the possibility four times a month with free tests given by the pharmacy, that citizens can be able to detect. So, then if the result is positive, they will be able through this form to guide themselves to a public health structure where the results will be re-checked and if the result is negative, they will be able to issue the certificate provided for in order to use it where also provided for and as specified by a ministerial decision that will be followed. This form is created by the Ministry of Digital Governance, i.e. the company that is under the supervision of the Ministry of Digital Governance and is certainly in collaboration with the HICP, precisely so that we cannot cost the entire operation and monitoring, and at the same time we can also manage and protect personal data in the manner provided for in the legislation in force. It is necessary to vote in favour and support this process of self-diagnosis, which is to be added to the 'war' against the coronary and to allow the traceability of the virus. It is an instrument used in several European countries. Greece is the first country in which it was announced that it will be free. It is already starting in Great Britain, and we believe that in the next few years the whole European 'family' will frame this new opportunity to use it in this very important period, during this critical period. Today we are over two million vaccines. In fact, in relation to the very good number of vaccinations and the large number of tests, we want to believe that the next period will actually be possible to create those conditions that we all want, so that the country can return to the expected normality. I call on colleagues from all political groups to vote in favour of this amendment, which is essentially technical in nature, in order to support the effort not of the government but of the whole society. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u178	Mrs. Pulou, is your question about Mr. Georganta?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u179	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I would also like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u181	Of course, Mr. Catherine. Here, Mrs. Pulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u182	We believe that all this demonstrates once again the sloppiness with which the government plans, if it really plans. Minister, when you plan the story of self-tests you could have brought all this design. That is not possible at all and, as you usually do, you are bringing this amendment back to us right now. We believe that you have once again proved yourself and we are opposed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u183	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, we really find it incomprehensible that one, two minutes before the end of the process of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development comes a legislative provision which has been announced since 19 March. Three weeks, that is, before Mr Scorchos announced that the self-tests will take place and immediately after two, three days the competition came out. And it took you three weeks to bring in an amendment to which the General Accounting Office of the State says: "For the assessment of this expenditure, no information has been sent from the relevant Ministry, for the additional costs, for both the HDR budget and the overall budget for the amendment." In other words, once again with the gun on the front and with the sloppy amendments to 'and one', as you are used to doing - remember what happened with the vaccination plan just before the celebrations, and two weeks ago - it raises a point on which there should be agreement from all sides of this House, because we all understand that the ivory is common and we all have to fight together. We disagree with the way the government chooses, which we have said before. Of course, the self-tests procedure has been proposed a long time ago and we think it will be useful. But, indeed, Mr President, because I would like to address you at some point, the government should also be serious about this serious issue, on this major issue of public health, and not come with such "geographies" of the last minute really three minutes before the plenary is over. And it really is sad and insulting for the National Representation in this matter to continue with the same tactic, which I repeat has not been costed. This alone shows the curiosity of this device.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr Catherine. We must also give the floor to Mr Heta, who referred to self-tests in his speech. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll only need thirty seconds. What is happening is a pity for the Minister of the Lebanese. It is only a few times that in the Greek Parliament there has been calm in a bill in which, let us say, there is convergence of views and you are back in the delays to put your own self-government. You are really ruining the whole picture of the Minister and the workers who worked, they have brought a draft law on agricultural production, the primary sector that we all so painfully hurt and want to develop, even with a commitment from Europe. Even that's something, one step. There was a convergence today. And you're coming to tell us about self-tests! For self-tests here today you have not given us any clarification. We made a move of the House. These are the ones that were opened on holiday and in three days the competition will be completed! Secondly, we made a complaint about a company, the 'SUISSEMED', and you have not answered us in here. This company, an IKE created six months ago from nowhere, with a share capital of 30 thousand euros, took the share of the self-test lion, several million euros, with football players known and unexplainable! That's why you didn't answer anything! You didn't even answer that the company that gets it, the other company, the big, the titanium "ROCHE", is 33.3% of the "NOVARTIS"! And that word in here that has haunted the wardrobes of this building! For the test, too, Mr. Kontozamanis has been aroused and said that the child who may not do so has no right to go to school, but not even online to attend the lesson! Fascistly you decide and forbid a child who won't do self-test, not even do a lesson online. Why? Is he going to get stuck with the fiber on the Internet? Let's not go to school! Can't even take a class online? You have brought this amendment! Too bad why you're ruining Mr. Lebanese's picture today!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Mrs Konnakka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u188	Minister, I think that we should only talk about the procedure with which another amendment has been tabled a few days ago that puts the self-test issue. This, of course, is also the responsibility of the Bureau itself and of the Minister for Rural Development if he accepts such an amendment and if this process continues before we start voting on the bill to have last minute amendments. We as a party have from the outset placed ourselves in a negative position in this process which once again throws at individual responsibility the issue of the necessary tracer, diagnosis, on such a serious issue. In particular, on today's health day, we know that what the Ministry of Health should take into account is to take care of measures to severely limit the pandemic, in order to track down by qualified nursing staff and not, of course, by the individual's responsibility to fly such a serious issue when the pandemic is in such a big spread. Finally, we do not disagree with the logic of setting up an electronic platform in itself to declare the results of the examinations. Besides, of course, there are also issues as to whether it can indeed be a serious method of tracing and stating the results, we have another concern about the issues of personal data. You have a well-intentioned past in the case of 'CISCO' and such platforms give us further concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much for Mrs Konnakas from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, I would really expect a legislative initiative which is of great importance to public health today, to hear specific objections and denials. Everything is acceptable from the standpoint of counter-population on the substance of this legislative initiative. The whole scientific community agrees that self-diagnostic tests will help very specifically to identify asymptomatic agents. In fact, in many countries, many scientists demand two tests a week and not one a week. So while the text I have brought to my fellow Members is essentially everything the government has announced, it has been announced by official lips and I am not surprised at anything, the only new, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no contractor in this work. It's going to take place internally by HICP and HEDP. They will bear the cost, that is, our own bodies, the public bodies that are supervised. There's no play, no contractor! We come because it is really urgent, to legislate and to be able to operate in the next few days, and here on grounds some people refuse to take a real stand on the content of the amendment. I don't want to say anything else. We all do. It could be said by you that you are generally opposed to self-diagnostic tests. You don't say it clearly. You are trying in various ways not to vote for this initiative by the Government, which I once again told you is not an amendment in the narrow sense of conducting a government policy. It is a legislative initiative that is necessary and necessary to enable our society to stand up again. We'll move on. I think that all those who have the opportunity to support this effort, which the scientific community accepts and the society is waiting for, and which is being done through public bodies, and it really does not affect the public, to vote in favour of it. We hope that this attitude will change during the vote. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u193	Again on the amendment, my colleague? Will you tell us whether or not you'll accept it? No, please. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. I understand the reaction of the opposition parties especially after this mature and substantial parliamentary debate we have had all these days and the end of this bill. I think, however, that the amendment which Mr Georgiods has just really supported is at a time when, as we have discussed during this analysis of the bill, it is very critical of the battle that the whole society is fighting together against the pandemic. I also understand from your position that there are no substantial disagreements on the substance of this matter on your part about the use of self-tests. I also understand - and I have lived through all these days - that there may be points of criticism from the Opposition for some of the decisions taken by the government to tackle the pandemic, to deal with the crisis, but in total we are all on the same side of the river and we are all trying to save more of our fellow citizens, build the resistance of hospitals to the ICUs. We are all in favour of the vaccination that my fellow Member has said is going very well. In this context, I think it is the very definition of the urgent amendment. He has to pass. That's why I'm taking her in the bill. I think it gives us a little chance to think about how right the President of Parliament was, but the leaders and the parties who accepted the endless operation of the Parliament during the pandemic, because, on the one hand, our democracy was won, on the other, we were able to take measures - many times with Parliament's overall consensus - to deal with this asymmetric enemy. In this context, along with the efforts being made - and I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate you, Mr Georgiota, on all the work you are doing in the Ministry of Digital Governance and you have helped a great deal to deal with the pandemic - we can participate - even half of the television - some and the others in the Chamber - and pass bills which, by applying them the next day, will be able to support our fellow citizens. Today we are voting on a bill which is in this direction. If, therefore, Parliament did not function in this way, if our democracy did not work and if the responsible political leadership of the ministries did not run, but the whole administrative mechanism to support the effort made by our doctors, nurses and nurses to deal with the virus as best as possible, think about where we would be. So I understand very well, Mr Katrin, ladies and gentlemen, that the procedural part is something that disturbs you. On the other hand, I think it is the most important case where we need to see the substance of the provision and not to stand up to the press. So all in all, so that I don't get the floor again, we make it acceptable on the one hand. On the other hand, I would like to thank you all for this dialogue that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u195	Listen, Minister, first of all to the rapporteurs for your bill and then thank them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u196	I thought we were closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u197	No, we're not. The rapporteurs did not speak of your bill. Mrs. Pulu, have you been covered?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u198	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the Ministry of Rural Development bill. The rapporteurs are starting first from Mr. Logiades from Mera25, if he wants to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u200	And the last ones stand first! Minister, if I have listened well, you have said that the vaccinations are going well and that we are all in agreement. We don't agree that vaccinations are going well. They are not going well either in Greece or in the European Union. As for Mr Georgioda's amendment, he brought it this morning, which is a global health day and brought it to five, in our bill, the Ministry of Rural Development. Previously, when our Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Gregoriadis, spoke again in 2015. Bring the file to the House. It has been said by the Prime Minister, too, that a number of special courts have been told. Get him here, let's see him. I would just like to say the words 'You do not keep your word'. You tell the farmers, the producers who come to your ministry often, all the time, to support them, that your hands are tied up by the Treasury. It may even be, with the memoranda signed, but you could have the checks on parole that are no longer suspended for these small producers. To help these people, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, these checks to be paid for trade, because they are really impoverished and instead of the Ministry of Development we will go to the Depression Ministry. We also saw recently what Bulgaria did at the end of 2020, within the pandemic, that it gave priority to consuming its own products that Bulgaria itself produces in Bulgaria and then, if necessary, import. It is, of course, a trend that is constantly developing internationally. You could also, because you are asking for proposals, pressure, demand, demand that the European Union introduce controls on products imported from third countries such as tomatoes, cucumbers, because Greece, as a member of the European Union, observes a very high process in this production. When cheap products are imported from third countries and unfair competition is created, but also a risk to public health. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Loyadis. Ms Maria Konnaka from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go back to the substance of the bill. I think that it has also been exhausted from our previous positions as to whether, in fact, bio-populations can be protected, small farmers in these unfair practices used by the big traders to blackmail them. I think there is a great deal of experience in this and in the rural world. Moreover, the results from the implementation of this Directive in Spain leave no room for great hope to farmers. Because things have been heard during the debate, and suddenly you are all tired and about how they will be protected from such practices in the case of cartels, etc. I would remind you that there are a large number of examples, such as the cotton producers in Thessaly, who have been sent to the Competition Committee for the degrading prices imposed by the grazing cartels and are still waiting for an answer. That is why hypocrisy is a long way from being allowed, first and foremost, by the refusal of all governments to impose the minimum guaranteed prices for agricultural products. A word on the amendment from the Ministry of Rural Development. As a whole, it is shown that it is supposedly coming to resolve issues. We don't agree that's the way it is. As far as Article 1 is concerned, it is not the first time that this has been voted on. The process was repeated by the previous government. We must finally resolve this in some way. These people cannot be held in vain hostages of prolongation. In relation to Article 3, for the Agricultural Organisation "DIMITRA", it is clear that you have put your property in the eye, promote the business exploitation of the land, its infrastructure, as well as its research work. The concern of the employees of the Institute for Animal Production of ELGA in Pella, who denounce that you do not, in fact, approve the necessary costs for their operational costs, while advancing a tender procedure for allegedly utilizing and granting the Institute's land, which exceeds three thousand acres to a private person. Basically, you're coming to validate this sellout as a whole of ELGO's property. In relation to Article 4, the issues of tacosty cannot in this way deal with the consequences that all farmers experience very well, with the full privatisation of the tacosty and the delays that each year cause great damage and losses to our domestic product. We say that the tactical situation, which all governments maintain, is unacceptable. It's not solved with such arrangements. Solution can only be given by passing the lawnmower exclusively to the state services, by appropriate staffing with permanent staff and the necessary infrastructure. Let us make a proposal to you because the current technological potential allows for effective homicide to be ensured. We would suggest that the drones you use to record the mobilizations outside the Ministry of the Environment, use them in this direction as well for spraying. We shall vote against the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Panos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u204	I begin with the following: it is very important today that we have a cross-party, I would say, consensus on a particular issue for the Ministry of Rural Development. After an exhaustive procedure in committee and here in plenary, I think we all come to a joint conclusion. It is also particularly important that for the first time we have changes in terms of legislative improvements. This, for me, is also very special, as it turns out to be a different culture of involvement with parliamentary data. These are in the very positive attribute to the new leadership of the Ministry. From there on, we have also reached a common conclusion through this process, that we have two different things to deal with at the moment. On the one hand, it is the direct reinforcement of the agricultural sector in terms of the part of the coronary, and that is where we need to exhaust our potential, but there is also an objectivity in the choices we make. You will allow me to say that, on the one hand, we cannot compensate Kalamon olives and leave the Halkidiki oil producers without compensation. We must put these things in place and be clear about the world as well. The second is that there must be a specific operational, strategic plan for the country's agricultural policy from now on. I have been in this position for eighteen months. I have tabled this as an immediate view in all parliamentary procedures. This plan cannot be drawn from us alone. We must with the tools of the Recovery Fund, with the new NSRF, but also with the new design that we will make at the level of the country's productive model and with the cooperation of the regions we can develop it, to know what we say, to know what we have in each region. There we will find the branding, there we will also find the products that we can run at European level, and there we will also see the next day of the country, supporting our young farmers and our productive model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Pana. Mr Stavros Arahovitis, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u206	I shall use my dentistry, Mr President, although our rapporteur, Mrs Pulou, could make a brief introduction. However, we have chosen to respond, since the Minister has given me the honour to refer to my work as a former Minister of State, the previous government, and I would like to say two things about this. But first, let me turn to the amendments. The last amendment, which really came at the last minute, shows a bad legacy and is a real problem. We were asked by Mr Georgiodas, the Minister, to get to the bottom of it. In fact, at the last minute, we cannot go in, for practical reasons, that we have not had time to study it, but on ethical grounds, because this is not the case. For the other amendment, the Ministry of Justice, as far as the first article is concerned, should give more time. It does not solve the problem in this way and has been pointed out. That's why we're in a negative position. As well as in the second Article, Article 2, there was no consultation to come to this article. And, as far as we all know, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors is concerned, everyone is in a negative position. There has been no consultation, and that is why we are putting ourselves in a negative position. You have wondered and asked us, Minister, what we were doing for climate change, and Mr Economou. So let us tell you what we did with a few words. One was irrigation, thirty a large, irrigation project, apart from regional projects, matured and integrated into funding, their funding was closed until the end of four and a half years. The second is that we have started the change in the Rules of Procedure, which is the same since 1988, but how? We have started the process of changing the regulation by considering what changes should be made in order to establish a regulation that is decent for the next thirty years, and by, of course, providing for the consequences of climate change as far as possible. The National Plan for Energy and the Environment and Climate was also developed and regional projects were being carried out by the Ministry of the Environment. So what you have in front of you, the corridor you have in front of you, began to form on the initiative of the SYRIZA Government. We do not want to monopolize the projects, to God, but please do not turn to zero, to reason that the work that has been done in the previous period has not been done and that you can remind us of a few things. We should also remind you that we had export record in 2018, which broke in the next year, showing a trend. And that didn't turn out randomly. I will tell you what we have done for the rural area, if you want, with regard to the trade agreements, for which, with Japan in 2017, with Mercosur, the Latin American countries, we are proud of the protection of feta and other agricultural products. Can you say the same about the agreement with Canada or South Africa? To know how we can protect products as well. In addition, I should like to correct you because you said about the Guarantee Fund. Indeed, the Guarantee Fund was set up in May 2019, the Agricultural Guarantee Fund, if we say the same. However, you have asked for proposals. Because we want to be effective and pro-agricultural in practice we have tabled proposals for the use of the recovery fund, both in infrastructure, in agricultural electricity, as well as in rural research and in the training of farmers, so that we really have benefits, which will be in-depth and will produce results in the coming years. Finally, for irrigation, the 200 million we have said that it is a very small amount. We have welcomed the change with the legislative improvement, with which you have brought the limit from EUR 2 million to EUR 500,000. You did not, however, bring a change as we expected in the climate, in the spirit that you are really seeking to have, and you did not bring a change, by closing the window in Article 4, as well as the proposals and comments made to you first by the institutions and then by us in Article 5 on the effectiveness and functioning of the committee. We believe that this committee alone with complaints will not work, simply because a complaint cannot be made by the weaker, when over it has the threat of the mighty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, too. Mr. Pana, have you forgotten something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u208	Yes, Mr President, it concerns the amendments. We have also been placed on committee level. The two amendments, 831 and 832, are accepted. As far as the last amendment is concerned, Mr Katrinis is concerned, but we are all aware of the seriousness of the public health situation and we will be positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Vassiliou has the floor from the New Democracy and we will close with the Minister. Mr Vasiliade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to say much, but I should like to thank my fellow Members again for the level of the debate that has taken place in this draft law, and also for the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for their constructive approach. I would just like to refer to the Ministry's response to the demands of operators and colleagues, in terms of covering more producers and businesses. We therefore welcome the reduction in the turnover of the companies covered from EUR 2 million to EUR 50 000. Once again it is shown that the Greek state is at the side of the farmers and of the professionals of the primary sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much. In closing this privatisation process, I would like to say that, in general terms, as regards the part in drawing up a strategic plan for the primary sector, I commit myself - I have done so last time in the House - to discuss the Commission and the next stage in the study we are doing on the new CAP. It had been the previous debate when the results of the SWOT analysis came out in December if I'm not mistaken. So we'll do it in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u213	We've submitted a request.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u214	Yes, and I answered you back then to discuss these issues as a whole. Away from me, zeroing. I didn't say you hadn't done anything, though. And if there is a plan strategy for the environment that incorporates in and the issue of desertification and these issues, which arise in all agricultural land and, of course, in the Greek producers, we will not only include it in our own study, but we will also discuss it and step on it. So, in this regard, I think we are all agreed that dialogue is very useful and we will make it next year. As for the part of the complaints about the most powerless toward the most powerful, we are therefore creating the conditions within the bill to protect itself in the various ways that we have said - now in the closure, let me not go back to the bill - and protect the anonymity of these people. And in any case, because we have the possibility of implementing, interpretative ministerial decisions, if you think that we can in other ways cover the protection of those who may accept the pressure of the strongest, I am at your disposal to see them. As regards the part of the use, Mrs Konnakas, of the technology for the homicide, I do not know exactly how this can be done, but if you have, because I understand that you have some experience and have dealt with it, such as Mrs Manolakou, who is in the field of the Ministry of Rural Development, to discuss it. In any case, this is why a solution must be found and this renewal must not be made every year. We have it in our schedule. The same is true of the extension every year of the Ministerial Act for the other part of the land. We are doing so this year because it has to be done for many reasons, especially for the coastals, but our objective is in the next few years to find a comprehensive solution to this problem and not to come every time the government renews it. On the part of the ELDR - 'DIMITRA', you will allow me in the next few days to see why we are taking this amendment and I think we will all be pleased. However, it has nothing to do with attempting to privatise ELGO land. Don't look at that at all. It is something very important that we are planning and I hope it will go well. It was necessary to do this so that we could go to the next step. When the prep is finished, I'll let you know. With these thoughts - I don't know if I forgot something - I want to sincerely thank you all. I am beginning with my dear colleague Mr Vassiliou, who has moved right into the spirit that I think the times require, but also to thank the other colleagues of the parties, the rapporteurs, Mrs Pulou, Mr Pana, Mrs Konnakas, Mr Viliardos and Mr Logiades, and also the Parliamentary Representatives, for the debate and for the fruitful criticism and overall of your positions and, of course, those of you who ultimately end up in support of this draft bill. However, even for those who do not support it, I think that we will be on the same side in this effort to actually support the Greek producers, protect them from this side of the delays in payments, so that they can get their money faster and in any case, to form a framework for the market to function better - the free market that we do not want to hurt, but we want to put healthy rules. I should also like to thank you, Mr President, and the workers here in the House for their patience and for their help. And I also wish the next bill will find that response. We will try it - and I tell you beforehand - and the next bill to discuss it thoroughly before it comes to Parliament, to form a similar course for it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is hereby terminated: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, 20 articles, three amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. You need to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u216	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u217	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u218	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the chain of supply of agricultural products and foodstuffs and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u220	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-07-S1-commons.u221	With the consent of the House at 18.40 the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, April 8, 2021 at 10.00, on the subject of the Parliament's legislative work: Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Citizens' Protection: "Definition of the Protocol on Cooperation between the Greek Firehouse and the Cyprus Fire Service, in accordance with the Agreement of 4 June 2003 between the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation between the Firehouses of the two countries in matters of their competence" and only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Repeal the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the field of health", in accordance with the agenda distributed. Thank you very much all in and out of the Chamber. Good night. Holy Mary with you.
