ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would first like to make the following announcements to this House: The Standing Committee on Production and Trade shall submit its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the amendment of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency’, an adaptation to Regulation (EU) 2018/1999/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the governance of the Energy Union and of the Climate Action and to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/826/EU of 4 March 2019 on the amendment of Annexes VIII and IX to Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the content of the comprehensive assessments of the potential for efficient heating and cooling’ and related arrangements for energy efficiency in the building sector, as well as on the strengthening of the Renewable Energy and Competitive Energy Market. On 13 October 2021 the Ministers for Finance and Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law: 11428- (97/6) Decision of 27 January 1997 of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund on the New Loans Arrangements.' It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I also have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 15 October 2021. COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE (Articles 129(2) and 3, 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 68/3/11-10-2021 by the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexis Tsipras to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "Would the Prime Minister assume responsibility for the catastrophic results of his government in the management of the pandemic?" A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Athanasios Davakis on his excellent report. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 38/11-10-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP Messinia - Progressive Alliance Mr. Alexandros (Alexis) Gift to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The shrinking of school units reduces educational work in the schools of Messinia". 3. The Question No 55/11-10-2021 by MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “What will come about with the employees' contracts of hospitals ending on 31-12-2021?” 4. The Question No 57/11-10-2021 by F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Direct needs for school nurses". 5. The Question No 41/7-10-2021, by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Residences and business of "residentials" are being auctioned, despite the so-called "state guarantee" and despite the existence of a "Support Fund" (v.128/1975) from which they should be supported." 6. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Conclusions of school departments in West Athens in the midst of the fourth COVID -19 pandemic wave". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 43/8-10-2021 by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "What is the design of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to restore the building stock in the earthquaked areas of Heraklion?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 65/11-10-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Great needs in school rooms - Support for children affected by the earthquake of 27 September in Heraklion Crete". 3. The Question No 62/11-10-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on "Direct measures to support the affected and compensation 100% of the earthquake in Crete". 4. Under number 59/11-10-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Instead of investment in public structures, Health Centres, Local Health Units (KY, TOMY), the Government privatises the Primary Health Care (SHS)". 5. The Question No 63/11-10-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Secure housing of earthquake affected in Crete". 6. The question asked by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Reappearing the phenomenon permeated outside of SYRIZA in Hospitals of Thessaloniki - For another year, undisturbed sanitary the city". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole discussion and vote on the principle of the Articles and of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on ‘Amendment to Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency’, an adaptation to Regulation 2018/1999/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the governance of the Energy Union and the Climate Action and on Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/826/EU of 4 March 2019 on the amendment of Annexes VIII and IX to Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the content of the comprehensive assessments of the energy efficiency and cooling potential in the building sector and on the strengthening of the Renewable Energy and Competition Sources in the electricity market’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 6 October 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle and the articles. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, be involved, a first cycle involving one speaker from each parliamentary group and one twelve-member circle of speakers, five from New Democracy, three from the SYRIZA and one from each of the other parliamentary groups. By teleconferencing service or physical presence, a 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed, whose names have been designated by the Parliamentary Groups with relevant letters. Informing you without the rapporteurs and special speakers is twenty-four Members, according to the letters from the parliamentary groups, who will take the floor. Fat, if we go well, around 19:00's and 20:00's, we can be done, and if we're consistent, maybe a little earlier. I think there is no objection to the basic suggestion. So we can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to make one comment and perhaps to express our disagreement on the procedure in the debate on this bill in general. First of all, it was the suffocating deadlines which were not a gap between committees in a difficult bill, which is, yes, a directive, but half. Otherwise, he had articles and environmental for both PPC and Antitrust, which had been consulted. They didn't even come into consultation. That was not enough, however, last night we received a hundred pages of amendments, which only if one reads them had to not sleep all night, but which also absolve environmental articles already in the bill. So you need to get them back. Come on, come on, let's talk, make a serious consultation! This cannot be the case for Parliament and for our democracy. We have a serious problem. I would ask the Minister, at least at the last minute, to gather the articles, at least in controversy, to make them properly in the consultation process, so that the parliamentary groups can be placed, and it will surely be for the good of what is to come about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u5	In my opinion - not now, over time - you know it, but it is not my job now to say my personal opinion. This is an issue which I think your representatives should report to the Conference of Presidents, because in plenary your protest has now been recorded, but you know that there is no possibility, unless the Minister decides on his amendments otherwise. It is an issue that needs to be resolved. It's a timeless disease. Since 1990, I have never seen a government that doesn't work like this, to be honest. So we begin with Mr Constantino Collias, the rapporteur-general from New Democracy, to have the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today is a serious effort, a commendable initiative by the government to lead Greece in the era of a new green and sustainable development. The whole of Europe is in the same direction. The main lines of this draft law, as I have already stated, are the improvement of energy efficiency throughout the entire energy chain, the reduction of pollutants that will ensure the protection of public health, productivity and the strengthening of competition through the creation of new and more jobs, the smooth operation of the Greek electricity market and the reduction of energy poverty. It is clear that in existing legislation there are issues that need immediate redress, hence the need to vote in favour of the proposed regulations that not only serve the national public interest, but also comply with the requirements of Union law in the field of energy. This also ensures the establishment of a single coherent energy strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present here the main regulations introduced by this bill. The proposed provisions seek, inter alia, to achieve the national energy saving targets, to strengthen competition in the energy market, to modernise the environmental inspection framework, to grant an extension for the correction of errors and to submit administrative acts of opposition to forest maps, to mitigate energy poverty and to reduce energy costs for households and businesses. In the light of the foregoing, I would like to say that in the first part we find Articles 1 and 2, which defines the purpose and purpose of the law in mind respectively. The objective, as described in the preamble, is to enhance energy efficiency and energy savings, in particular through intervention programmes on buildings. In addition, there is a need for greater penetration of renewable energy sources, as well as the optimum functioning and consequent reinforcement of competition in the electricity market. Furthermore, the target is to reduce the final energy consumption by 38% compared with 2017 in all economic sectors. The second part shall be divided into seven chapters. The first chapter on energy efficiency sets out Articles 3 to 8. As provided for in Article 3, Part B is a bridge between national law and the European Union, since the Greek legislation is in line with Directive 2018/2002, Regulation 2018/1999 and Delegated Regulation 2019/826, all of the European Union. Furthermore, it is planned to establish a framework of measures to promote energy efficiency in order for the country to contribute to achieving the primary targets for 2030 for at least 32.5% and to prepare the ground for its further enhancement after that year. In Article 4 we meet the definitions necessary to establish certain technical concepts and to make their meaning better, while Article 5 defines 16.5 million tonnes of finished energy equivalent as Greece's indicative energy efficiency contribution to achieving Europe's 2030 objectives. The proposed regulation in Article 6 attempts to highlight the exemplary role of public sector buildings which need to meet the new ambitious requirements of Directive 2018/2002 of the European Union. An obligation to renovate 3% of the total floor area of heating or cooling buildings belonging to the central public administration is laid down and this obligation is in line with the target set for at least the minimum energy efficiency requirements. In this context, another long-term objective that is met is to facilitate the cost-effective transformation of existing buildings into buildings of almost zero energy consumption. A special reference should be made to Article 7, which focuses on the procedure for the award of purchase or leasing of a building by public bodies intended for housing the services of the operator concerned. In fact, there are conditions to be met in the case of the central government bodies for which they are required to be housed in high-energy buildings. Thus, in paragraph 5 and in particular in cases (a), (b) and (c) specific required energy categories are provided for which the building should belong in the case of a lease or purchase contract for public entities, as well as the dates from which the designation of those buildings should be started as almost zero energy consumption. Subsequently, the proposed regulation in Article 8 is consistent with the amendments to Directive 2018/2002 of the European Union as regards the national cumulative objective of energy savings in final use for the period 1-1-2021 to 31-12-2030, equivalent to 7.3 million tonnes of oil equivalent. The second chapter, which is divided into Articles 9 to 14, focuses on energy audits on the status of auditors conducting them, but also on management systems. In the following two articles, i.e. 11 and 12, they refer respectively to ensuring that consumers are effectively informed of the measurement and pricing of gas and electricity and that their rights are guaranteed. This Chapter shall be completed in accordance with Article 14 under which the sanctions imposed are provided for in the energy auditors. Subsequently, in accordance with Articles 15 and 16 of the third Chapter, energy efficiency shall henceforth be promoted when supplying consumers to heating and cooling and in the operation of the transmission, conversion and distribution infrastructures. The fourth chapter, which contains the set of Articles 17 to 20, sets out the framework for the certification of the energy auditors. This is a universally transparent and reliable regime for consumers, and, among other things, a scheme of competitive procedures is established to promote actions to improve energy efficiency. In the fifth chapter we have Articles 21, 22. For example, I mention Article 21 under which a plan of action is to be drawn up by 30-12-21 to deal with energy poverty with a ministerial decision that will apply retroactively from 26-9-21. Because a great bet with the in mind of the draft law is also to achieve a reduction in energy poverty. Subsequently, in the third part, we have Articles 31 to 34, which are complementary in the spirit of Directive 2018/2002 of the European Union, amendments to Law 4122/2013 on the energy performance of buildings relating to energy efficiency incentives programmes, the term of validity of energy efficiency certificates, as well as the rate of control over the RES when concluding public procurement contracts for the purchase or leasing of buildings. Article 32 regulates the provisions relating to the time validity of the energy performance certificate for a building or building unit. In accordance with the proposed amendment to Article 33 the obligation to sample all AIPs shall be introduced in the event that the leaser or buyer of a building or real estate unit is an entity belonging to the general government. It is worth noting that the result of the audit or the declaration of discharge of the APRC from the control obligation is required and invalidated in the repeal of the relevant sale or rental operation. In addition, in the fifth part of Article 35-43 certain arrangements are introduced to ensure the penetration of renewable energy sources and the efficient operation of the electricity market. Among other things, issues are re-regulationd with energy communities and is increased from 500 kW to 3 MW the permitted installed power in residential areas for mass or biogas power plants imported and issues relating to RES and PSY projects are raised from 500 kW to 3 MW at stations selected in competitive tender procedures. In the fifth part on which extensive analysis has been carried out and during the debates before the committee, we have Articles 45-48 on the Antitrust case. I will say a few words, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this case, which particularly touched on the events of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in comparison with what the current government is promoting with this draft law. I should like to speak, ladies and gentlemen, on the obligation introduced by the SYRIZA - ANEL for PPC, which has reached the point of selling energy at the most humiliating prices through the so-called NOME auctions. For these auctions, the president of the General Assembly in a discussion in the Committee on Production and Trade said: "The laws of SYRIZA were imposed by lenders to destroy PPC". Let me remind Mr.4319/2016 and the huge quantities purchased by competitors that, on an annual basis, exceeded ten thousand yards. Does the elite colleagues of the opposition officer bear in mind what this practice has cost PPC? That the damage caused reached a height of tens of millions of euros? It is characteristic that the volume of this energy exceeded the production volume of lignite and hydroelectric plants. At this point, I would like to say that the government is introducing a bill that leads to PPC's financial consolidation by establishing its obligation to have the fixed quantities of electricity through organised derivatives markets with money settlement and current market prices. With regard to the alleged sellout and the other reproach of the opposition officer for privatising PPC's query it is worthwhile that SYRIZA arrives today at the point where it is muddled, and on the contrary it should be silent about the body of privatisations that took place on its day. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two to three minutes, Mr. President. I would briefly recall the privatisation of the fourteen regional airports in August 2015, banks, ERGOSE. The list is certainly just too small because all our national wealth has been sold to the supreme, not to exploit it but to repay debts. And all this, of course, is the result of the blind obedience of the then co-government to the demands of lenders, apologies to the institutions. The objections of PPC's privatisation officer, therefore, not only do they find any reasonable gain but they also expose the fact that, as usual, it deafenses when it comes to the criminal errors he has consciously made. I would like to put a small parentheses here, saying that the noticeable difference, ladies and gentlemen, is now simple. SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, since the third memorandum was required to limit PPC's market share from 90% to 50% and mainly in zero economic exchange, then decided to sell 17% of PPC for 100m euros - an amount that it had also written in the budget - for the repayment of the public debt by creditors. The current government is promoting the expansion of the company's capital base, which is another step towards growth and transformation into a strong regional energy force. This is without, of course, overlooking the control of the Greek State as the company's largest shareholder in the context of the broad dispersal of shares. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is the inflow of 750 million into PPC's fund, if this process moves forward, from the increase in share capital rather than the 100 million that would go to the lenders? I'm sorry to hear the institutions. In addition to all of this, I should also like to point out that defoliation is a strategic choice of the country for economic and environmental reasons. No one disputes, ladies and gentlemen, that lignite was the most important fuel for the national economy on which for decades the country's development and electricity was based. Today is different. The cost of purchasing pollutant rights for PPC is unbearable: from 20 euros the tonne that was costing two years ago is now more than 60. For each megawattage produced by lignite, 1,2 to 1,4 tonnes of carbon dioxide shall be emitted. Therefore, the cost of megawattage for pollutants only reaches 90 euros. If we add operating costs, the total cost of a megawattage exceeds EUR 120. The wholesale price of the megabarate in trade is determined on average at EUR 60 to EUR 70. So PPC for each megawattage is damaged from 30 to 50 euros. Result: 47 million paid by PPC in 2019 only to redeem pollutant rights with a direct impact on the company’s profits and a record of losses in the first quarter of EUR 3.5 million. I would like to point out that the international prices of pollutant rights are on the verge. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what will happen if the cost of pollutants reach 100 euros a tonne of something already valid analysts have expressed their concern. And because, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have constantly asked what is going to happen with Unit 5 of Megalopolis, I believe that the answer lies in everything that I have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Collia, you have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u9	You said you wanted two minutes. I left you three and a half. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation of Directive 218/2002 into Greek legislation and the adaptation to Regulation 218/1999 as well as to Delegated Regulation 2019/826 together with their arrangements are not simply an obligation of the country resulting from our participation in the European Union. It is essentially a single strategy to ensure energy efficiency, to increase productivity and our competitiveness, but above all to improve our lives' quality. For its essential and beneficial and progressive content, I hope it will concentrate the approval of all the factions. I therefore propose that he vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u11	Mrs Theophista Perkas, rapporteur and Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that in these committees that have become too much talk and pressing, in one day two and three committees have said several things. I, however, still expect key answers from the Minister, who has avoided this, have not even touched on it. Of course, my colleague, and I have to start out of text too, and say: Ladies and gentlemen, the country has entered two memos. And then came a government that was not responsible for the country's debt and its repayment and took the country out of the memorials and arranged both the debt and left a reserve and found some commitments, including the NOMEs committed by the Samara government, which also lost the free rights of pollutants in 2014, which compatible "Ptolemais 5", which had the plan of small PPC, which had the hydroelectrics that were the most profitable part. We also found a PPC with 14.5 billion loans and I don't remember how many billions of citizens' debts. And the government of SYRIZA came in and he cut down and supported the households 12% of the bills, cut the debt, made investments in the Balkans, and of course turned to the RES. Because until then PPC had 3% in the RES. And today the Government of New Democracy comes with an increase in share capital, without any procedure, no information. Some friends knew about it. We are also asking the Commission to deal with this issue. So I ask: what is this transfer of the pillar of our energy system, and how does it help the Greek economy and the Greek society? You need to give some explanation as to policy on the accuracy and deregulation of the energy market. Today we're waiting for answers. And in any case, where these funds will be missing with which you are subsidizing and not reducing the accuracy, protecting those who are actually responsible, so as not to enter the 20% price increases in September. When fuel prices fell we had PPC to speculate. For everyone. And in any case, is the privatisation of critical energy tools, DEDP, TEDDAH, the way you choose for the country's energy transition in a green future? This is very serious. What tool? At a time of price crisis, the creation of a private monopoly on the gas network is really wondering how it helps. Let's go to Antitrust's theme. I've been answering, I think, quite a bit. And I would remind you that with these commitments that the SYRIZA government found, it made a counter-proposal, which was the disinvestment, which had to do with the fact that it was adapted precisely to the green agreement. Instead of opening new lignite mines, access will be granted to existing lignite plants, which, of course, never happened. In any case, as far as the chapter of the bill is concerned, Minister, you cannot avoid answering some questions. This is the fourth time that all sides of counterpopulation put them on you and put them on you. We would like to know as far as this agreement is concerned what reservations were expressed by market participants about the Greek commitments, what amendments were made to meet the reservations. These refer to an official communication from the European Commission. It's not opposition. We read the committee's communication. You also did not answer how, without an institutional framework, since it is now legislation, without the Monitoring Trustee being appointed, PPC made available quantities of lignite production in September 2021. How? There is no institutional framework. The bill provides that PPC can make available the future products of electricity from lignite plants on the Greek energy stock exchange or on the European market. The purpose of the regulation is to increase competition on the domestic market. That's the fine. That is the commitment, that is what the European courts say. As demonstrated by the total quantities of PPC in September it was sold exclusively abroad, which confirms that the objective of strengthening competition on the domestic market is not achieved by the proposed measures. Equally important: it has not exactly been attributed to the English text. Read, let's translate the English text. So what's he saying? PPC will have full discretion to produce these volumes with any of the electricity generation assets of its portfolio, including natural gas electricity, hydroelectric power or other renewable energy sources. In Article 45 that does not exist. It has only lignite. What's going on, Minister? Won't he answer? Has he gotten away with you? Is it wrong? Are you going to do legal or are you hiding anything else? The exact term of the translation says: In order to avoid doubts PPC is not obliged to supply the quantities of electricity to lignite only. Answer. And of course, PPC has an obligation to sell, now in September eight hundred and ninety GW and sold ninety-seven. We do not know what will happen with this surplus and whether it will go to the next period in Ptolemais 5. You will allow me to tell you that there is too much anger and anger. A defoliation has been announced and nothing has been done in these two years except fine texts. Unemployment is thwarting, three and a half thousand unemployed. The restoration of the territories, we wait for them, the specific town plans, we wait for them, the degree zones, we wait for them, the large investments in the first project of the RDP in the second, we did not see them again in the territorial plans, and there is a unit that has cost the Greek people 1.5 billion - I told you that it was compatible with the Samaras government - which is still built, which will be opened in 2023 and which will then have to be closed and we have not known when it will be closed. I mean, 1.5 billion to work with lignite and shut down. From the bill we concluded that it would be closed by December 2024 at the latest. So it's gonna work a year with lignite. We're asking what's going to go on. Gas. Natural gas is a fossil fuel, it is not financed by the European funds, and you must tell the inhabitants of the region that these costs will be incurred and, shortly, it will not exist, we will have to get back into the process because it is carbonisation and not defoliation, which is part of it. We are also asking whether technological studies have been carried out, how much it will cost, if the gas prices are taken into account, or even the 50for55 which is also an obligation in the country. Finally, I come to the title of the bill we are debating today and this is a directive. All you had to do, ladies and gentlemen, for this directive was to incorporate it in good time. This is a serious directive, namely energy efficiency, so it is useful. And while her luck was ignored in November 2020 that had been consulted, she finally came to the House and was voted today, nowadays, as the committee has already taken up the new target and 50for55 is reviewing it. So very soon this late directive will be revised with more ambitious objectives. In the meantime, valuable time has been lost and we are very far behind, otherwise on this key issue called energy efficiency. Even if we are not concerned with delaying integration, there is the question of the proper application of Union law. We are dealing with a list primarily, in many cases we also have a distorted transposition of provisions in national law. This is mainly a replacement for articles by Law No.4302, which incorporated the earlier directive. It lacks the rationale and philosophy of the directive, namely that energy efficiency should be recognised as a key element and priority of future decisions to invest in energy infrastructure in the country. So in the end, we are talking about a miserable bill, with provisions that are outdated that will not help deal with an energy crisis. Instead, there were many bodies that have proposed ambitious and more generous proposals and the European support fund, as the climate and energy crisis requires. Another example is that instead of 0.8% the bill as a minimum obligation for annual energy savings, it could become 1.5% just like the committee's proposal that will come very soon in the new directive. Why don't you adopt it? Why don't you take a step forward, why don't you dare? In any case, we put the cart in front of the horse since various programmes in the meantime are running in the country or even worse have been completed without this directive which would set the required criteria. I am talking about 'Security - Economy'. We have said a lot to the committees. I'll talk to numbers again. Our "Security" ended in September 2019 with 500 million euros and fifty-three thousand homes. On Mr. Hatzidakis 850 million euros were wasted to join the "Security" just forty thousand homes. This was the result of the outsourcing of the income categories, the outsourcing of the subsidy limits, and because the "boss went crazy" increased the budget for the interventions. We come to the new 'Security' and see that some of the proposals seem to be adopted. For example, the average subsidy is reduced to 60% in order to integrate fifty thousand dwellings. We welcome this change, however, several resources have been wasted. However, I would also like to ask the committee's first meeting and I have not received an answer on the 'ELEKTRA' programme which is public buildings, which are the most energetic. We're talking about very old shells and many buildings with great energy loss. What did you do? You're obsessed with canceling everything that comes from SYRIZA. You canceled the programme which was completely ready and also had funding, and with a single article in Law 4643/2019 you also made sure that you block the funding from 500 million. So the state is now coming out of this program. It is not linked to the general upgrading of buildings, it is not monitored by any structure. The first committee asks what structure the ELECTRA programme is monitoring. None. In any case, we hope that with regard to the directive you will have more rapid reflexes for adapting to the new Commission proposal, which focuses more on reducing energy poverty and strengthening consumers. The green transition wants serious planning, sufficient resources, targeted measures to be fair and no one left behind. It is not done with wishes and texts and, above all, it is not announced, nor is it announced as the expectations you have created in your announcements, Mr Minister, for the energy communities, for the new institutional framework, for the removal of obstacles, for the creation of new entities, for financing. It was very nice announcements. And the bill comes and the first one we see and it is impressive that there is no regulation to abolish the suffocating framework of the competitive processes for all energy communities. This part hurts with the setting of Mr. Hatzidakis. We didn't see anything. You also bring in a hundred pages of amendments. In the same bill the amendments are being implemented, but they do not solve this big problem. Also, the second serious issue. Not a word about the electricity supply deficit for the development of small RES projects by energy municipal communities and citizens' communities. Frozen the resources from the Green Fund that are already committed to strengthening the energy communities in lignite areas. I would also like to ask one more question, because we have again seen something in the amendments to these funds that are being tempted by them, and once again something will be done about ELEI again may be missing from the lignite regions. Are you going to ensure that this source of funding continues over the next few years? Will you return the percentage from the auction revenue to the lignite regions of 6% that we had and have gathered some resources that you do not of course use? Did you get it to 1% in the midst of liberating and increasing unemployment? Western Macedonia and Megalopolis suffer. I'm on it. Even a proper measure such as biogas plants within high productivity land areas, you forget it. We had institutionalized it at five hundred kW. Good. You're taking it to three MW. What's he doing? How can this work? All it serves and all it does is to change the use of land from agricultural to industrial, which we cannot accept. Of course, both articles come in 36 and 37, which tell us, in fact, that for the energy communities, it is the nice thing to say, but we are also making you a little companies. In Article 36, the obligation to participate majority of natural persons is limited. In conjunction with Article 37, which refers to the corporate transformation of energy communities, you say that these are contrary to the spirit of their institution that is the active involvement of citizens in the process of energy transition and economic and social benefits must be returned to local communities. It's like we're talking about companies now. Of course, you still well predict that if an energy community is transformed into a company, the privileges are lost. Of course, then the question arises if they lose the privilege, why should they go to energy communities? In any case, Article 40 does not solve that either. It is particularly problematic because it does not specify whether the privileges of the energy communities are lost in a case of transfer of the licence. At the same time we have seen many grouped projects of speculative energy communities making use of the prerogatives of energy communities. There's actually. Indeed, the provision of Article 38 is attempting to reduce the phenomenon of these distortions, but from 1 January 2021. So for those who already exist before they can't solve it. The provision of Article 39 is positive for increasing the power threshold for virtual energy offsetting stations by energy communities. Of course, the regulation could be more brave and involve industry and business. We have a proposal for 50% of RES to be made by energy communities. In such a case, of course, we would suggest an even greater increase. Let us tell you that the first request for association by an energy community of citizens has already been made for a virtual energy netting project in the region of Western Macedonia. This is a non-profit-making nature and it is the Energy Community Dimitrios Ypsilantis. Equally interesting is the example of the energy communities created by the municipalities of Kozani, Florina and Prespes, as well as the creation of the first network of non-profit-making energy community. In addition, the Region of Western Macedonia has set up an energy community in cooperation with thirteen municipalities on its borders, the University of Western Macedonia, which is so important to play on the issue of transition and liberation, which the government so badly treats after dissolving sections with the minimum import base of Mrs Kerameos and that is not going well. And while we see that there is interest, local communities are interested, as in other European Union countries - see what is going on outside in Denmark and Germany that the energy communities have taken off - we are still discussing typical issues and begging for a little electrical space and a little funding. Are you going to satisfy the demand to commit the required electrical space for virtual energy netting projects? Will you provide the possibility of linking self-production projects from public-private communities to the electricity grid? Will you activate the financial instruments for supporting energy communities? The issue of financial support is extremely critical because these schemes are not very easily viable and above all do not have access to bank funding. We stress the call for an integrated programme for the financing of energy communities and virtual net works by energy communities in western Macedonia and Megalopolis. Of course we expect to see how they will be financed from the funds of the new programming period and when you will finally unblock the resources of the Green Fund from 2018. I shall close, Mr President, with a little mention of the issue of environmental audits. Mr Minister, I also think it is clear from the hearing of the bodies that we are not just the ones who react and say to you: 'Take them back and bring them into consultation, bring them amendments'. Do they deny what is described in the articles? Did you tell us we didn't read? That's not how it works. You are talking about a huge reform and, at the same time, operators are expressing enormous anxiety and concern about the amendment of the environmental audit procedure. It's fine topics, it's difficult and they might want to talk and consult. We cannot always adopt them in this way, when Greece has been a champion in recent years in cases of breach of Union law and in breach of judgments by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Instead of strengthening the control of environmental compliance with sanctions, so that we do not have this tragic classification, it elasticizes it, it puts evidence of subjectivity in fines, it opens the window in situations of corruption and extortion. It does exactly what is not appropriate in a European country. You adopt the philosophy of compliance, but ignore the basic principle of environmental legislation that polluter pays. It is therefore visible that the polluter is still polluting without impact for many years. The institutions have said so, and I will repeat it because it is really a slogan, there is no environmental compliance control in Greece. In support of the need for strong environmental compliance control is of great interest, therefore, the recent OECD study reported during the WWF representatives’ hearing that the most powerful and competitive economies also have the most powerful environmental audit and sanctions systems. With the provisions that you propose instead of a few, but specialized environmental inspectors to do their job, they will be responsible for doing their job properly. You have an innate aversion to everything that is public and, in fact, that means that it neutralises the mechanisms of public control, so also the control of environmental legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u13	Finish, Mrs. Perka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President, with the forest maps. I won't say anything else because I'm really bored. You call on the citizens to object, and you are actually asking to rectify them. That won't get anywhere. What I wanted to say, Mr President, is that, as you can see from such procedures, with such oligopoies, inaccurate, atmospheric, but also difficult articles, we cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u15	The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement, George Arvanitides. By the way, the wishes of all the Members of this House are accompanying Mrs Fofi Gennimata for rapid recovery and overcoming the problem. Here, Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the President for his wishes to Mrs Gennimata. I too would like to express, personally, the hopes of a rapid recovery to our President from the step of the House. I know and we know very well that the Genuine Fofi is a fighter in life and politics and we wish her a winner in this battle too. Our prayers and thoughts accompany her and we wait for her quickly to be with us. I now come to this bill. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that energy savings are the most economical and environmentally friendly source of energy. Specifically in Greece the margins for increasing energy efficiency and reducing energy costs were and are still large. That is why we in PASOK have set up successful projects at home that have contributed to the fight against energy poverty. Since then, however, they have unfortunately not found worthy followers and replacements. We have also built the institutional framework for energy services enterprises, the ESCO, but they have also been left to their fate by the next ones and the banking system has unfortunately not helped. And I come to today, in the midst of a storm of energy growth. And while your Government two and a half years now has done almost nothing about energy poverty, leaving households and businesses in their energy destiny, you are now running to incorporate European Directive 2018/2002 on energy efficiency and energy savings. And it is hypocritical and fine your interest in energy poverty, as for a year now you have been making a ball on the dates of drafting the famous plan on energy poverty following your well-known tactic - which has become your feature - by seeing and doing. As I pointed out to the committees, this plan should have been drawn up since February 2021, but it will eventually be drawn up in December 2021 and with a ministerial decision it will have retroactive effect since September 2021. This bill, therefore, consists of a delayed directive to ratify energy savings and a lot of sewings on environmental issues. We can agree to the savings targets that you put and I hope, frankly, that we can catch them, but when you are running lately and putting the cubit high without proper preparation beforehand, the margins of optimism cannot be great. Unfortunately, your energy developments have been caught unprepared and you are running behind events and we all know how great the impact on the economy, on the market, on consumers because of the developments in energy issues will be. And here, however, is the usefulness of policy to provide for and prepare appropriately, prepare public administration, prepare control mechanisms, prepare citizens, prepare market and business. So you should have run much earlier on energy efficiency in public buildings. Here, in April 2020, Mrs Gennimatas had raised the issue of the allocation of national resources and resources to an energy upgrade and saving programme of energy of all the health structures of the country, health centres, an EXOCONOMO in the ESS. I would also remind you that for the past three years we have been talking about energy democracy that can effectively deal with energy poverty and decentralised electricity production in the RES. We have proposed the climatic law that we are waiting for - despite all the communications - from March of '11', as well as the installation of small photovoltaics from small producers in the fire-fighting areas to reduce energy costs and the need to complete the incomes of the affected citizens. In August of '21 the proposal was made. None of this has been heard and nothing has been done as an option and a policy by your Government. On the contrary, Minister, you are accusing us of coming undignified. It is a very serious charge for people who are being trained and who take their eyes out to read at 5 a.m. the amendments you are bringing, devalued the House at the last minute. Your Government tabled four amendments yesterday, amendments - a multiplier plan until the absolute deposition of Parliament's perception of sewage and depreciation. Amendments concerning: shipping, tourism, economics, RES, wind and urban areas. Get a bill to rule with a bill on all matters, do nothing to discuss, do the formality here and move on. And the Minister will also have the requirement at ten o'clock today that we have read them and voted on them, otherwise he will reclaim to us that we are not prepared. But who blames who? The government that today brings in an amendment amending an article amended by an article of this bill? Or for the changes that it brings to its own only recently adopted laws? Eventually, who is not reading properly? Who doesn't have a plan? Who underestimates the legislative process? What really prevented you, at least, the energy issues that you are bringing today as articles, the other day you have changed them and now, as an amendment, you are changing them again? Or was the matter of suspending the wind licenses in northern Evia that you went out and pulled the ear to RAE while it was yours exclusively oligopoly? Can I talk about e-mail and about what we have proposed since July and now are you coming to legislate? The other explanation is that not all of these are failures, you deliberately do so so that there is no real counterpart and criticism. Who, then, blames inconsistently who? Your Government, where were we the only ones who submitted a detailed memorandum to the committee in this bill with detailed proposals for corrections to an article? How would we do that if we didn't read? And in any case, we are unbeatable for you, but for us you are sloppy and unwitting. And we do not put forward concrete proposals and amendments to articles for the first time, we do so every time we have debate and procedure. I hope, of course, that you do not leave our specific proposals unanswered, the ones I have tabled to you for the many time, Minister. And we look forward with interest to you telling us in your position, which of these proposals you are accepting, which are not and on what grounds. The Change Movement has just asked questions and has proposed concrete solutions to the definition of the final consumer, the definition of energy audit, the abolition of the obligation to submit contributions to the Special Energy Efficiency Fund, the establishment of a support scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises with a "XOV" programme for enterprises, the abolition of the obligation on national energy efficiency plans to include publicity actions - why is it abolished? - photographic arrangements for filling the position of Director-General in the EEAN. And if these are things that are not really ours, as you accused us, Mr Minister, why you do not respond directly by saying that there is a mistake, that is our choice, that is what we think we will fix, so things will go better. Is this the regulation that you are bringing to environmental inspectors the proposal from the Pissaridis Commission? You have to answer the question. And why don't you choose it? You have advertised and entered the public debate all this debate of the rugged proposals in the Pissaridis report. You don't. What for? What's it gonna do? What's gonna go better? So who distorts reality and facts? The reality is that the procedures you establish bind hands to environmental inspectors. The reality, too, is that the possibility of imposing fines is difficult. The reality and the fact is also that you do not follow the creation of an independent authority, as I have told you and prepare the private auditors who in other countries, unfortunately, did not have the expected results. Good practices and examples to follow. And don't tell me that I'm saying things again and that they have nothing to do with the reality, because this is exactly what the environmental control regime you are bringing now, today, in our country was both Cyprus and the Netherlands. Do you know that they have been running to change this regime which these two countries have had for two years? And finally, to close this chapter, is it or is it not true that the people of the field, the environmental inspectors, have proposed a special algorithm which will calculate the cost of the fines, but has rejected their proposal, the management proposal? Explain why? Where he suffered, what he didn't improve, which is the best you're introducing today. I now come to the chapter on the Energy Communities. There are individual arrangements in a positive direction which we will also be voting for. However, the basic provision abolishes the right of priority in their connection with IPTO and retroactively. You, the government of stable rules that will bring growth, are you retrospectively coming a year while people have started trying to change the rules? The tactics of the rug - and the Greek Recycling Agency, unfortunately - are for you - because you are recommending - a monument of poor legacy. In relation to the Energy Communities, we have tabled specific proposals, criteria and rules so that opportunities do not exist. We have therefore proposed simply and clearly that the priority of the Energy Communities should not be lost in linking the IPTO to the following cases: When the work is authorised by the Energy Regulatory Authority. When the Energy Communities are in the areas of defoliation, and I mean western Macedonia and Megalopolis, and in the other regions keep the priority for the Energy Communities that have sixty members or more. Unfortunately, with the horizontal regulation you bring to Article 38, you are not strengthening energy democracy. Along with the dry burns and the greens. Close the energy window for the many, and unfortunately, close the eye to the few. The economy at the moment, however, after the pandemic, wants to disperse benefits and spread as much as possible, with as much resources as possible. He wants a laptop, not a gathering. But you do not support the Energy Communities. You do not support small producers and the cooperative sharing economy. You don't stabilise the rules so people know how to invest. You do not focus on production because you have never believed in decentralized systems that develop their own dynamics. You do this from self-government to energy. Where self-government and energy cross the real issue are the defoliation, which we have, here too, delayed absorption of PPC's subsidiaries and the incomprehensibility of the state budget with the definition of a monitoring mandate for PPC's commitments for which we have not received sufficient explanations. Citizens' agony in degree areas strikes red. Unfortunately, what today is a sense of insecurity and not the confidence that no one will be left alone in the crisis that we are facing. We saw, in fact, that the Ministry of Development just the day before yesterday made public consultation of the draft law on fair development and on regulating more specific issues of liberation until 19 October. We are already being created many and great questions and concerns about the operating process you choose for the company "METAVIS S.A.". I do not know whether six days are enough to consult with society on such a big issue, when we have been waiting for your final decisions on 'Ptolemais 5' for two years now. I think, of course, that in this case you will again be working on the sewage shelf - we will 'change' it, and you will be forced again very quickly to revise your intentions. Really, can you tell us today from the Step of the House when the Ptolemais 5 lignite plant will eventually close? Will it close in 2028, in 2025, and with what technology will it continue? Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the wave of energy accuracy has arrived and in Greece is becoming even more difficult and drowning because of the lack of predictability and because of the bad choices and priorities of the government. Your choice of linking the country to the gas tank, the privatisation of critical energy networks and infrastructures, the delayed and misuse of the 'EXHOOKOMOVO' programmes, opened it - close the lignite plants, the front - back with the Energy Communities, after the summer's energy heat, we now have a heavy energy winter before us, with the Government bringing this directive without any organisation, without any plan to button it along with the other tools and programmes, unfortunately without any vision. While it is certain that it will be necessary to update immediately as a result of the new European decisions on Fit for 55 and the ESRB will have to be amended because of these developments, so the basic line of the sewage-slide in energy policy will continue from you, unfortunately, and I do not know how much more sewage-slap you will bring the amendments and the legislative improvements to this process. In short, we are very concerned because with this tactic you open Pandora's energy box and we will find all these options and practices before us. I only hope that Greek citizens do not have to pay for it in the light of new future energy crises. And because every energy crisis has always been a crossroads to political history throughout Europe and worldwide, it is certain that very soon it will again appear who was looking forward and who was looking mystically at this crisis. It is certain - and I close with this - that very quickly the correctness of our views and a progressive approach to energy programmes in Europe will emerge as the only solution for many, really against your own choices that only suit the few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u17	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u18	These are last night's amendments as much as another bill! They're very important. From the Port Authority to serve the navy, that is to say the military slaughterhouse, until the minimum jobs have been lost, by seafarers with collective labour and insurance contracts on seagoing vessels. Slavs want the shipowners, and that is what you are doing without debate, without debate, with amendments of the night so that the day does not see them and is ashamed. Yesterday at noon there was the second reading. You didn't say shit. And the process has been humiliated. So today we are talking about the energy bill. What's the aim? It is intended to incorporate a European directive into national law with which you all agree. However, its purpose is to continue the plan for uninterrupted entry of private groups into the domestic electricity market through energy savings. Of course, compulsory energy savings will be achieved by increasing energy poverty for the populace. Your anti-grass policy guarantees that. We know well that before the rapid increase in the price of energy, many households were faced with the loss of electricity, since they were unable to pay the bills. And the situation will get worse! Recently there has been a government decision on PPC's new privatisation round through the increase in the company's share capital, from which the State is excluded. This has triggered a round of confrontation of the government - an officer of the opposition with high tone - and today we have heard it in the committees - with SYRIZA refusing the government that it is harming the Greek State by the sale process it has decided. The truth is different. The course of privatization of PPC is not a neoliberal choice of the New Democracy, as SYRIZA is trying to show it. It is another link in a whole chain of unpopular reforms in the field of energy, which together constitute a central political choice of the European Union and of the bourgeoisie, the policy of so-called liberalisation of energy and then the renowned green transition, a policy that is central to the political choices of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA. And this bill serves this policy. That is why it does not include solutions to big fuel price rises, electricity, as a whole, to wide-speaking products. All the people pay for them with green euro-Union fines and taxes, subsidies from the Recovery Fund for groups, as well as measures from the toolboxes in the name of correctness recovery. The expansionist policy that the New Democracy is pursuing today, like the restriction followed by SYRIZA, although it was not in its nature, have a common denominator: the hunting of profit and exploitation. Loaded is the myth that capitalist competition would bring down energy prices, good jobs and growth for all. And a tranquil demonstration is the possibility that the peoples of Europe, more than ever, might freeze this winter. In fact, the policy of the green transition aims to create a temporary profitable investment path for overcompensated capital. It is a great public intervention in the economy, on the one hand, by financing and supporting new investments in many sectors of the economy and, on the other, by the controlled depreciation of capital, since, to create new opportunities, a field for capitalist investments with profit has to be depreciated and a portion of the existing capital is to be destroyed. This objective is currently being pursued by the withdrawal of lignite power stations, traditional electricity transmission networks, aircraft and vehicles with traditional fuel. Of course, measures are taken in the name of expected climate change. Existing production infrastructure, energy and mobility infrastructures are typing as environmentally non-friendly and new investments occur with green infrastructure, creating new $ trillion globally. That's what you even do with traffic. Not single scales in the center. Electric cars only. The main objective of this policy is therefore not, in fact, to tackle climate change, but to shield the profitability of large capital. In addition to the large state support for new green investment, measures to increase exploitation are being promoted, expansion of flexible working relationships, adjustment of working time. In other words, the increase in profits requires greater redundancy of workers. That's the point. Within the framework of managing the most extreme consequences of liberalising the electricity market and of the European Union's green agreement, but also by looking at ensuring the collection for energy groups in the RES, it is also this draft law. Promote green investment in state buildings with the obligation of an annual green renovation of a percentage of state buildings. Who's gonna pay for the green investment? The usual underage, the people, with increased tax burdens on state expenditure and the reorientation of state expenditure to such projects. The ELECTRA programme for energy upgrading in public buildings is well known. And, of course, will someone say: Is it bad? No, but resources are not hierarchy for people's needs, for new school rooms, so that twenty-eight students per class are not stacked for anti-military protection in order not to drown and destroy popular property. This is why the construction groups that will build new buildings and especially the large ones with relevant know-how and capital, as well as the manufacturers of construction materials suitable for renovation, mainly German big companies. Your aim is not to hide him, since many are the arrangements that promote the RES through the energy communities. It is a way of increasing the penetration of RES into more expensive power for the people and destroying the environment. It is an effort, through the creation of energy communities, for their social acceptance with the false argument that they will win the popular strata after creating the Energy Communities. However, as far as the argument that hides who will pay for the extremely expensive current of RES is concerned, the Energy Communities will only be used as a window. Corruption and hypocrisy exist in the second part, which is allegedly interested in reducing pollutants, but you are giving business groups legal protection to pollute and not to bother about it, a friendly recommendation. We have so far had the anti-environmental 'polluter pays', now you have done it 'polluter pays'. This is how you strengthen the environmental crimes of business groups and, at the same time, weaken environmental auditors. But you did not answer us from now on: the private auditors who will control them? Also, the carpets that pay popular layers as consumers of plastic elements are also channelled to the disposable plastic companies. Everything about capital, even with money from the carving of the people. However, also the Presidential Decree on Hymitos incorporate it into the designs you are promoting for Greek and its further commercialisation, its conversion into a field of business and tourist outlet. He's an expert on Greek tourists. This way you'll legalize all violations, evacuations, illegal usage changes. Finally, for this "LAMDA S.A." you have brought people the exceptions to existing laws that apply to everyone else. Of course, there's a consensus with SYRIZA in that. And since you are all referring to the post-aberration period, there is neither fair nor smooth transition to the post-aberration period. On the other hand, it is a serious consequence of the green transition, beyond the energy insecurity that grows accurately in the current, which already receives thousands of workers and self-employed in the former lignite regions, whether they were working in PPC factories and mines or in jobs related to lignite production. By mocking and cultivating polluting expectations, the government is trying to convince them that they will pass unscathed by the new capital strategy, a pillar of which, apart from liberation, is defoliation. From the Fair Development Golf Plan with 5 billion euros, there is nothing to expect workers and local residents to expect. The lion's share is intended to support large investments, such as the construction of photovoltaic and wind farms where jobs are incomparably less than those lost, poorly paid and with expiry date. But the so-called EUR 107 million social package also concerns the needs of businesses, as it is intended for wage and contribution grants, skills acquired for the unemployed and companies' subsidies to hire them. Of course, you have the SYRIZA agreement in the plan for green transition and liberation. But the fight among you is about who can fairly push thousands of workers into unemployment and millions of people's households deeper into energy poverty. Experience from Britain, according to a survey by a university - up to the 1980 ’ s, the coal industry was employing more than two hundred and thirty - seven thousand workers - shows that they measure the consequences of liberation. A large part of the workforce has emigrated with the result that older people and one out of twelve of the total population live today with state subsistence and disability benefits. One third work with parttime work and average hourly earnings are lower than national average. The new jobs concern in most cases worse working conditions and remuneration, irregular hours of work and a high rate of change of staff. The hundreds of thousands of jobs lost have never been replaced in these areas. These are only a few images of the future that will be found before them by the workers, the self-employed and the youth in the lignite regions of our country. That is why their struggle for life and work with rights needs to be strengthened, by rejecting the preachers of good and bad green transition that is by hand hostile to the interests of workers and the people. To target the real opponent, the strategy of liberating energy and green development. Therefore, as a whole, this bill we call it classic, anti-environmental and roussyphetological for groups, especially as regards environmental protection. That is why we are not only voting against it, but we say to their workers that it is up to them to strengthen their fight for energy - social good and not commodity, but also to abolish all the robbery indirect taxes, substantial increases in wages and pensions, to claim power and economy on the basis of their own interests. The Communist Party of Greece clearly says that there is another development path. It is addressed to workers and the people and proposes a truly different, but higher type of organization of the economy and society by abolishing capitalist ownership in the means of production, with central planning and labour control aimed at widening popular prosperity. In this energy economy, there will be a single state energy operator that will include PPC, all production, transmission, distribution of electricity from all forms of lignite energy, renewable sources, natural gas, oil and others and which will serve all the people's needs and not the profitability needs of business groups. So energy product will be a social good for everyone rather than a commodity, and of course it will be much cheaper. To implement this solution, the working class and the people must take the keys to the economy and the steering wheel of power into their hands. The aim of production should be social needs rather than capitalist gain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Please, make the Step. Mr. Vassiliardos is a special speaker from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] [[At this point the MEP of the Hellenic Solution Mr. Vassiliardos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we will begin with the hypocritical environmental sensitivity we see in all the relevant government bills, reminding us of the enormous quantities of coal dioxide released into the atmosphere from the summer fires equivalent to many lignite plants. A million trillion acres burned over five hundred thousand acres in Evia, while the government was raped to send wind turbines, as evidenced by the permits granted by RAE to the Germans in ignorance - allegedly - of the Minister. The damage to the environment was not only the above, but also the fact that one million three thousand acres absorbed 5% of the lignite emissions according to our study, while it was badly tripled by the floods that completed the catastrophe on the island. All this due to the government's mismanagement of the fires, and the fact that the Prime Minister has stated that all the burnt fires will not be resurrected again is substantiating environmental hypocrisy. This hypocrisy reminded us of what was said in Mikis Theodorakis' death in the sense that his contribution to the fight against the destructive memorials was completely silenced, as well as his even more decisive contribution to the scorpion. In today's bill, as we pointed out in committee, this is another illegitimate transposition of a European directive into our national law, and we are struck by the forecasts of deeper penetration of RES when we are faced with a huge risk of energy poverty, almost entirely dependent on international developments. We are, in fact, a prey to international developments, at a time when it is obvious that the energy storm that has erupted will have very serious consequences. Even more obvious, however, is the government's criminal policy on energy, such as converting PPC into an import wholesaler from production. Much worse it has rushed to ligniteification long before countries such as Germany or Poland flew out of the window of lignite reserves worth over EUR 300 billion today, with the price of oil at $80 billion per barrel, while it said that it would not extract natural gas into our underwater territory where it is estimated that there are stocks of more than $300 billion. Therefore, any crisis follows the energy crisis a food - economic, etc. It will be the sole responsibility of the government. As far as the contents of the draft law are concerned, the European Union directive only covers the original two parts, the first thirty articles put in consultation eleven months ago, and the rest have never been put forward. Then there are various incoherent arrangements of the Ministry of the Environment, which amend previous provisions, which substantiates the incredible duplication of the legislature. In particular, the first two parties to introduce the European Union Directive concern measures to enhance the energy efficiency and energy savings of buildings, including public buildings, as well as factories, combined with efficient heating and cooling from RES. An additional energy savings target for the country is set at least 32.5% on energy efficiency by 2030, as well as further improvements for savings, equivalent to seven tons of 350 kg of oil equivalent, as well as for ten years thereafter. Without going into detail here, issues are being redefined in the context of drawing up energy efficiency plans, with the responsibility of regional and mayors, with the creation of the Building Cert electronic platform, with evidence on the energy category of the property, with consumer access to various elements, with the promotion of energy efficiency in the supply of consumers, as well as in the operation of the infrastructure and with the possibility of carrying out energy audits. A model of competitive procedures is also adopted to promote actions to improve energy efficiency. In Part 3, provisions are amended for financial incentives to upgrade buildings under Law 4922/2013, also for the issue and validity of the Energy Efficiency Certificate. As we stressed, however, the low rate of energy upgrading of our building stock continues, annually at about 3%, while on the contrary money is invested in RES, which have the lowest cost-benefit ratio compared to all other RES systems. We have tabled our own proposal in writing, which we will be re-subscribing today. It's about thirty pages and it's completely analytical. Part four introduces some other arrangements to promote the penetration of RES, and fortunately new forms such as the biogas plants, which we have first introduced, are included. Furthermore, the permitted installed electrical power is increased within five hundred kilowatts of three megawatts, where we proposed five megawatts, for hybrid power stations on uninterconnected islands. There are also issues on energy communities that do not solve problems in the bill, but create new ones. In the fifth part, which relates to PPC’s lignite, the continuation of its operation is institutionalised, with the obligation to sell part of their production with Greek futures contracts with PPC and with a timetable for their withdrawal. In this case, however, a limit is placed on the EMS, so in production for the first and second quarters of 2022 only three hundred eighty-seven yards in total. Here we have expressed our concern about the logic of regulation. It's absurd, of course. In order to be more understandable, the installed power of the lignite plants was 3,9 yogawatts in 2019, where some plants had already been withdrawn. Their production in 2019 was 10,3 gambaters, and even this amount was almost 50% lower than in 2018, where 15,2 gambaters were produced. Therefore, with this regulation we are exploiting less than 50% of our potential, much less, without even taking into account the new modern Ptolemais 5, which - if possible - is planned to become a gas unit with prices today in the stratosphere. Isn't it clear that this is how the government destroys Greece? Is it not known to everyone that today the cost of lignite plants is lower than that of natural gas despite the vertical rise in polluting clauses? However, the issue of lignite sales has existed for some time and antitrust procedures had been initiated by the European Union. According to reports, it had been discussed during Mrs Westager's visit in May 2021, while we had told her here in Parliament that we would like lignite production to remain at least as a reserve, where, as it seems, we are absolutely entitled today. The lignite clauses could, however, be drastically reduced, provided that the existing lignite plants are environmentally upgraded, the ones we have here in Greece, as other European Union countries have already achieved by different methods and the relatively low costs that we have analysed in committee, which ranged from EUR 1 billion to a maximum of EUR 2 billion. For us, of course, this is not the price of PPC's share and speculation, but the cost of electricity for the economy, as it was the original objective of its establishment, how much more so when the government that has remained in PPC now is the first word in its name, the delta, since its shares, which had the state, have been transferred to the State's Supreme Court of Foreign Affairs, established by SYRIZA in 2016, but was a prerequisite to the third memorandum that all three parties of the Troika domestic. Therefore, any revenue from its sale will be taken abroad to repay the debt, but a debt, which is constantly growing despite the sale. Furthermore, the sixth part has some organisational arrangements of the Ministry of the Environment, where the General Body of Inspectors and Auditors is established. It is well known, however, that this House is literally declining for many years now, so that all certified environmental inspectors in Greece do not exceed twenty. In the seventh part, provisions of the recent Law 4819/2021 on waste management are amended, which regulates the operation of the Greek Recycling Agency and waste treatment plants. The eighth part extends for four months the deadline for presenting objections to the drawing up of forest maps, a subject on which the troika is pressing and on the recent 11th evaluation, although there are many problems. Finally, in the ninth part, there are still some procedural issues of the Ministry of the Environment, such as changing the percentages attributed to the Green Fund, as well as the Renewable Sources and Energy Saving Centre from the amounts of offenders collected, as well as the suspension of building work in the Hypottos. We will close with the more general theme created in terms of energy, starting with the fact that in March 2019 the International Energy Agency published its forecasts for the European gas market, in 2019. According to this, there would already be a supply gap or a supply gap in the European Union of forty-eight billion cubic metres from 2020. However, its forecast was not verified in 2020, as measures to combat the pandemic internationally led to global industry operating to a limited extent. This situation has now changed, with economies growing again at a high rate, so the planned gap, the narrowness in supply of natural gas, that is, has already emerged. Of course, this is firstly less dramatic than it sounds, because this gap shows the difference between the alleged demand and the quantities already covered by long-term gas supply contracts. In simple terms, the European Union to fill the gap should buy the quantity of gas that it will miss on the commodity markets through short-term contracts, which are usually accurate or alternative to the 'on the spot' markets, at much more accurate prices. However, with the Energy Agency's forecast, this bidding gap will increase every year, while 2025 will rise to sixty-two billion cubic metres. This quantity is greater than that currently purchased by the European Union by its main supplier, Russia, through fixed contracts annually. Continuing, there are several reasons why the European Union's above subsistence has such a large volume. Above all, the fact that the domestic production of the European Union in the North Sea and its imports from Norway, which is not a member of the European Union, are gradually decreasing as stocks are slowly depleted. Besides, the Netherlands's production has been interrupted since Groningen's 2022 gaze. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] In particular, while the domestic production and imports from Norway amounted to almost 200 billion cubic metres in 2018, the Agency provides for a drop of half to 2025. Of course, the subsistence found could be reasonably easily offset by the European Union through new long-term supply contracts from Russia, which President Putin is constantly proposing, but where the European Union does not want to be dependent on Russia, which he is constantly accusing President Putin, who seems to be responsible for everything that is happening on the planet. On the other hand, it is certainly not possible to use more natural gas in the long term than is mined or purchased since storage sites will be empty, as is already the case in the European Union. The price increase now serves, in addition, the producers of the most expensive shale gas and LNG, liquefied natural gas. It is therefore not only Russia that benefits from this acidification, but also the United States whose exports are constantly growing. It may also be that Germany that wants to impose Nord Stream II - Germany wants to impose it not on Russia - so that it becomes the dominant energy hub in Europe with Russian gas. At the same time, Turkey is taking advantage of the Azeri pipelines, stressing that it is up to the European Union which finances the ESDP while we obtain a large part of our needs, about 20% in the first quarter of 2021 via Turkey, reminding that the issue of dependence has also been mentioned by the President of Turkey, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. So let us not ask ourselves why the Turks question East Med and our EOZ, like their allies, the Germans, in tabling all documents in the Minutes. To close, in particular, Europe has set itself the goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by stopping carbon burning something that first sounds good. However, if its lack of energy production cannot be fully compensated for by renewable sources then - badly enough - it will lead to an increasing share of gas, which is already happening. In particular, there was only 46.2% more gas electricity in Germany in the first quarter of 2021 than in the previous year, while in Great Britain 40% more. At the same time, China, which produces much more carbon dioxide than carbon combustion and doubled its gas imports, continues to use it. While it stops, it will probably lead to a blackout by exacerbating the international price crisis. However, Russia exports more to Europe than 19.2% more to GAZPROM for the first half of the year, and in Germany in particular 40% more. These are, therefore, the major problems that should concern us since their impact on our economy will be very important. For all this, of course, we will vote against the bill, much more because of the hundred pages of amendments at the last minute without even being given the opportunity to discuss them in the committee. Such methods are unacceptable and unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u21	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now there is the floor for the special speaker of Mera25 Mr Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening at the moment is incomprehensible. We have tabled amendments to the telephone directory size for all the issues of the bill. For a bill that was out of consultation anyway and that brings us further amendments. We are going to stick to the point. And we will insist on the text of the bill because these amendments, as you bring them, Minister, do not know what is left of them until the end of the process. It's a bill that breaks down environmental inspectors. It is a bill that actually takes from environmental inspectors, from the audit mechanism for the application of our environmental legislation, the right to fines. Where the fine procedure took place at about three stages, listen to how many procedures we should be doing with this bill: Autopsy, autopsy report, interim control report, notification, apology, final review report, corrective action plan, declaration of compliance, autopsy of compliance, infringement attestation, sanctions and so on. Beyond the procedure of objections all of this. We have a government that dissolves, deregulations all laws in order to simplify, says, licensing procedures. And here, where we have the enforcing of environmental sanctions, and in any case where a large private pluralist in Greece or abroad is called upon to pay, all of a sudden, the conventions suddenly change, if we talk about 'COSCO', about Skouries. In our case we do something wider, we do a procedure so that a fine can never be imposed. But what's going on here? It's continuing. When is the right of the environmental inspector to impose direct fines? Listen to the cases: Direct danger to public health, direct and significant negative effects on the environment that cannot be prevented without direct action by the authority responsible for carrying out environmental inspections, pose a risk of wide ecological disruption and have substantial administrative infringements. Really, which defines all this? All this is not defined anywhere. You are creating an ambiguity regime, in order to create an incentive to interact and corruption in auditors, decisions which whenever offended in the courts will fall because they are so subjective and eventually never impose these fines again. Because he's your goal never to impose these fines. And you dare clearly violate European legislation to do so, you do not have the slightest problem. You have no problem turning us into a state - even though it violates European environmental legislation firmly and predictablely. Look at what you are currently infringing: Directive 2013/30 on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations, where it explicitly prohibits a distance between the detection of an infringement and the imposition of a fine. You're breaking it with your legislation. You are violating the 1975 directive on industrial emissions. It shall be expressly prohibited that fines for detected infringements do not enter immediately. You're breaking her. You never answered these violations because you don't care. You are not interested in the European acquis. You are also violating the Basic Directive of 1975, which says that the operation of any company that is found to be in breach of environmental legislation should be suspended, even if any compliance with them is requested. It inhibits their function to conform and re-open if they want. You have no problem breaking the European directive. None of European legislation concerns you, you do not feel it should be restricted to you. Also connect the environmental fines to the turnover of each undertaking. A clear violation of 'polluter pays'. Clear violation of every logic. You are fined on the basis of what the business is doing and not on the basis of what a breach it does. That's incomprehensible! You rewrite the principles of global environmental legislation. Actually, you're tearing them apart. You also repeat this in the amendments. You make it even clearer. All this in a bill that's never been consulted. You put a bill in consultation a year ago on the European Energy Efficiency Directive. And you are bringing us beyond the twenty-four articles of the bill that entered the consultation, another thirty-six, and with your amendments twenty-two, without consulting. Do you think Parliament is a formal procedure? Because it looks like it. You think it should go through Parliament, you will just say what you think, you will hear what others have to say. After all, you will legislate whatever it is, no matter how illegal it is, no matter how irregular it is about the laws that you are going through. As a result of this delay, we have not even reached the revision of the directive that you had brought for consultation a year ago. These twenty-four articles are now outdated. The European Commission has now come with a new proposal for legislation and we are still talking about outdated, old ones. What does this proposal of legislation include? Small corrections, but we'd say to the very least that you need to incorporate them. Let's see, point to point: You have a target of 38% for energy efficiency for 2030. We should at the very least go to a target of 45%. For what? Because otherwise we cannot achieve the aim of the temperature increase below 1,5°C, the objective that guarantees us that there will be a future for people who have been born in our millennium, from 2000 onwards. These people must have a right to life. That is why you need to adapt your objectives to what the scientists tell us. In addition, an obligation of 0.8% annual energy savings. The committee's proposal is now 1.5%. We call on you to adopt it to a minimum. It is not the world's most progressive body in terms of the environment. As a minimum, we ask you to incorporate these. Set a target for reducing energy demand in the public sector by 1.7%. That's self-evident. We must actually have energy efficiency being examined horizontally in every measure, in every legislation on energy or other areas affecting energy consumption. These should be self-evident and, yet, they are absent from your legislation, even from the one that has been consulted. But here there is another big crime, which is about forest maps. The Minister had the courage to answer my previous speech with his last speech and said that it was foolish to place me, where I plead with him, because they have practically armed the arsonist's hand. And it tells us that maps have been ratified in Evia and Olympia. Let me remind you of this. The anti-environmental law of Mr Hatzidakis actually rebuild the forest maps, that is, changed the terms of forest maps, what is permitted, what is forest, what is not. It started a new procedure of objections. The new maps were posted in February 2021. In May 2021 a new extension of objections was given, a new change of terms, and now, with this bill we have a new change of terms. We said Mera25 to Mr. Hatzidakis, we told you, Minister, that you arm the arsonist's hand. If the maps are finalized, then there will be no motive for arson, there will be no reason for anyone to burn a forest, because the forest will not change after. We told you that Greece would burn this year and you, following the burning of 1/7 of the country's forests, to such an extent that in seven years' time we will not have forests, proceed to new extensions of objections. And you're telling us maps have been validated in Evia and Olympia. Maps in Evia and Olympia have been validated in the unobjectional piece. With the changes you bring, you create a new right of objection. New objections continue and are awarded, and that is why you are giving extensions. Finally, if you don't know them, you ask your advisers. It is not possible to say such things in this Chamber. Of course, unthinkable things are going on. We have this phenomenon that the government has been prosecuting the energy communities from the very first moment on, that you want to stop all chances of sharing the economic benefits of the transition to green energy, the carbonisation of energy throughout society. You definitely want to give them to the five constructions that get mountain peaks after the mountain peak of all our Alpine zones, all protected areas and turn them into massive wind farms, with cementing the mountain peaks, streets out there that were inappropriate areas, with networks over there. And all this, of course, brings a great deal of damage, especially to endangered species. Now you are giving the right to sell private energy communities profitable to private companies. In other words, when a natural person leaves, the energy community can only be left with legal persons, become companies and also sell their infrastructure directly to companies. You want to privatize and gather even energy communities. There you have arrived, instead of seeing energy communities as the basic tool that should allow us to lead us to socialisation of energy, a substantial response today to the question of accuracy. You are, of course, bringing the suspension of permits for winds to burnt in Evia. You bring her after the outcry, because until then it was just words. You have suspended and withdrawn authorisations, but you do not do the same for all the NATURA regions, as you are due after the sentence by the European Court of Justice in December 2020, a few months ago. It should be under this condemnation today for the non-protection of NATURA regions that the court states that we should not place activities in the "NATURA" areas, whether they are tourist or whatever else, if there is no plan for the management of NATURAs, that is, if the scientists are not here the absolute protection zone, here is the area of almost absolute protection, and here are the areas of activity, you continue in every mountain peak of the country in the protected areas, whether those are in the NATURA, in the European zone of exclusion that is in the guidelines of the European Commission for how it defines exclusion zones - and there they are wind belts for the protection of the bear and the wolf - whether this is in Smolica, or this is in Zagorochoria, in Tymna, whether they are in Samothraki, or it is Evia - in Karvosa, where you want to cross into any other places, or any other places of the islands. In fact, there is no village and mountain that no longer faces this issue. Of course, you will not, you will not respect the court's decision to be completely anti-European. You are so much as a government that serves the interests you do not account for. You are not interested in European legislation. You are not even interested in the judgments of the Court of Justice. We are now the country that violates more than any other conviction, not legislation. And, of course, you're extending the presents to the host, and I'm talking about 'ENERGEAN'. You gave her 100 million on bail and lending - a part - in May 2021 and the first thing ENERGEAN did - you said that you did it to save her and not to make redundancies - was to fire the workers immediately and were turned into contractors with fixed-term contracts and now you give them the right to 100 million with a guarantee from the Greek State to take them from foreign banks too! Let us now see what you have done to another company, which is very important to Greece this time, 'LARCO', an undertaking that in the environmental sector has many problems that need to be corrected. However, it is a very important business for Greece, which could operate on environmental terms. Here you are prolonging the liquidation in order to sell this operation, instead of socialising it, to give it to workers, as we have seen in many countries that it has happened and to support it with the public. We are told 'Europe is giving us a resignation if we support 'LARGO'. Really? For ENERGEAN doesn't she give up on you? A hundred million with a state guarantee, in essence a new bond to the outside of 100 million with a state guarantee will get a loan and a bond at the rate of the bank's interest! And that is not illegal aid, only for LARCO is aid unlawful. Look, it is clear that you want to dismantle everything that has been left in the public sector, any control mechanism. It's clear you want to dismantle the environment. You haven't brought a bill that really protects the environment. You have not brought us to the Chamber such a bill. We will continue to come here, even though you completely despise the democratic processes and procedures of this Parliament. We have had first reading, pursuant to Rule a second reading, and there was no amendment at all. You brought us the telephone list today, in fact at 10 o'clock in the morning, most of us received it. This is your mood to dismantle everything in hiding. We will be here to reveal them, and we will obviously vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Velopoulos, President of the Greek Group of Parliament, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin, Minister, to talk about the state you have built. It does not take a long time to decouple this partner state - a motto, I would say - with pluralism, with people who do not know their jobs and the main one they legislate on the foot. A hundred pages of amendments! There is no need for any further comment from us. But I would like to insist on what state it is that you have built, that I say from 1974 onwards, not to blame you at earlier times. With five simple arguments, I will prove to you how horrific your state is. Firstly, yesterday the government announces about HPAI, VAT and income taxes something very simple. Reminds me of Kilaidoni's song, "five plus five plus four plus fifteen, something I'm wrong, something goes wrong". Here's what you're doing. It is about three hundred and eighty-three thousand five hundred owners, that is about 98% of the owners. When I owe the public ego, that goes forth. He's taking over for time as well. When he owes the state to the citizen, he says: "Your HIS VALUE, I will set you off later and not now." In other words, in an unjust, vicious state, we ask for tax advances from the Greek and when the state owes the man, he says, "Come on, pass through the fund after a year". So you made setbacks in the future. This is the Government of the New Democracy. He did it yesterday. Second, heating allowance. You're from a mountainous area, too. Because I come from a village too. You're raising the subsidy very well by 20%. Go to Florinna. But listen. The price of oil is up 50%. It's like Caladon's arithmetic. "Five plus five plus four plus fifteen, something I'm wrong, something goes wrong again." Tell me 20% subsidy with 50% of what it's got to do with it? In other words, EUR 100 to EUR 750, when last year was EUR 80 to EUR 650, while heating oil goes from 80 minutes to EUR 1,20. How serious is that state? The third example. Yesterday I watched TV - because I'm watching international channels - I was informed, Minister - I don't know if your government knows that - that there will be a Pakistani religious event in the center of Athens. On the Pakistani state television, I was informed yesterday where I watched satellite channels. The birth of the Prophet in the center of Athens will be celebrated in Eid Milan - un - Nabir on Sunday 17 October. Nobody knows that. You know, Mr. Screka, what it means to learn from Pakistani TV what will happen in Greece next week? How serious a state is that? Fourthly, the Minister of Culture, Ms. Mendonis, in her reply - to see how serious we have, an official document of the Greek state - tells me about the palace of Ithaca Odyssey, Odyssey, “According to the Antiquities of Kefalonia and Ithaca in the region there is no excavated palace complex, as shown by the literature.” That was the answer of the Minister of Culture in the Minutes, when the University of Ioannina has been excavating for twenty years and found the palace! I shall therefore submit to the minutes of the House topography since 1885 Austrian archaeologist with the palace. How serious is a state whose Minister for Culture and President-in-Office does not know that there is the palace of Ithaca? You've misunderstood it! The only thing left of the palace, beyond the very nice findings of mycenaean style, is the cement that some have thrown on some archaeological findings. You are the government of cement: cement in the Acropolis, cement in Ithaca, cement to become every archaeological site. What can I say? Fifthly, to prove to you that New Democracy is a vicious party, this party of the beggar Karamanlis, this serious politician today has a vicious leadership. Why am I saying that? I will register in the minutes of the House about the history of the future from a site that has received thousands of euros advertising article awarded against the Greek Solution. It's your site, friendlyly adjacent. And because you're going to tell me it's not like this - I'm going to present it to you in the Minutes - "PROTAGON", so it makes advertising on Facebook and Google an article against the President of the Greek Solution and against the Greek Solution. Site news! Do you understand that? It's a site where you gave money from the Pecha list - you want - New Democracy list. That's vicious and it's not the only one. You'll tell me why it's yours? I'll prove it to you. I'm only picking up two articles. Listen: 'with a recipe for Churchill Mitsotakis'. Oh, my gosh! "Chitach and zarkadaki" - a cheetah is Mr Mitsotakis, from what I understand and a zarkadaki is Mr Tsipras - these are the articles. Your site to pay registration, sponsored advertising against another party! What site? What site? These sites that, with money, not thirty silvers, with 200m euros along with the channels, are muddling, resurrecting, mocking against politicians and President-in-Office parties! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Well, enjoy them. Rejoice them! We will say this very simply: mockery about the New Democracy can be a bad administration shield, but it cannot be a weapon, and we insist on it. It's your shield of mocking and lying. We as a Greek Solution and its President are saying something very simple: we will be the voice of logic, we will be the voice of not of personal attacks. We don't forget anything, we don't forgive anything. No matter how powerful, no matter how cruel the opponent of your dirt, the stench of yours, we will win, because that is the truth! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Payed site, awarded advertising against party presidents? That's not even North Korea, it's not a dictatorship, it's all, because the money you've given is not your money, it's the Greek people, it's all the parties and you've got it distorted. I shall therefore try, because time is pushing, to do some policy lessons today, free seminars for those who do not understand what parliamentary democracy means. Today in Greece there is a serious problem of ideology, ladies and gentlemen, and I quote yesterday's incident of the young man who was struggling with the anarchists at the university. You would do anything about university police, you would do anything to stop the hybris, the trabucism and you did nothing as usual, only you come here you say it and don't do it with neologies - listen! - new, curious. I was listening to the President of the Republic talking about new patriotism. I know that the neo-democratic MPs and their genarch Karamanlis patriotism mean it as specific things. What's new patriotism going to say? For us there is neither old nor young, one is patriotism and it is Hellenism. There is neither young nor old! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So the core of the undisturbed continuity of the Greeks never speaks of himself. You cannot say new patriotism. What's that thing? So today, in our view and with what we see every day as a Greek Solution and its President, we consider that we have an ideological war, but we also have a political war, a political war of the New Democracy and the pillars it serves, the economist elite against the rest of the parties, and I will prove it to you. The political war is being carried out by the media with ideas - neologies, emotions, not by conventional weapons, but - I will say it directly - in forms of political specific war. It's the ideological war. Its purpose is to seize it through propaganda - the New Democracy does it - ideas, emotions. Target? The death of the nation and the mind of the Greeks. This is one aspect of the war. There is also the social war, which is much more serious against many. The aim of the social division, the undermining and the collapse of instruments and oppositions. Target? The separation of the Greeks, their division, the right and the left, the vaccineers and the anti-vaccinants, reasonable and irrational. This is the tactics of the New Democracy. There's also the economic war. The aim of the collapse of the economy, the dependence of people on benefits, on state and on inflation. Target? The challenge of economic chaos, the impoverishment of the Greek people, poverty, hunger, because the citizen is more controlled when he thinks about his survival and not about his growth higher. There's also a secret war. The secret undermining by erosion of society, corruption of consciences, blackmails, threats to people, or power mechanisms such as taxi, such as insurance funds, which you give to canalarchs millions of euros and you put the Greek in jail, you take his home for 10,000 euros. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So the purpose of this secret war is the erosion of society and its destruction. The aim of all of this on the part of the New Democracy - which is why we are ideologically opposed to you - the prevalence of an authoritarian state entity, clearly dependent on Maximos and New Democracy with censorship, a controlled economy, preventive censorship, with institutions such as the PSE, the government, the ETUC, the government, because you control all of this. This is the major mistake in this democracy. And for all this, your "washer" is the means of mass information, which you have paid for by the Greek people's money to exalt the Greek people, divide the Greek and, above all, dismantle the unity of Hellenism. These are your mistakes, forging and pimping ideas, annoying sessions to the Greeks, "If you don't do the vaccine, you'll die, wake up!", "If you don't do what you're told, you'll die, get your allowance!" We have a war, then, and we have a war clean and shiny war, and I insist on it. We could say that there is a erosion of the state mechanism in the Armed Forces, in the Security Body, are the controlled individuals in the media, the classic journalists, who, like Portugal, are - what is it? - and Gospelatos and all of them serve as New Democracy's mouthpieces the lie and not journalism! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And many like them - they're not the two specific ones, most of them - they work that way. Why? Because they make the need for party friendly and necessary money. Many journalists and many of these very practices are being cashed out and you are incriminating dissidents. Fourthly, you create a big problem, a negatively charged vocabulary and all parties do it, and, unfortunately, I say it directly - you just say something different from what the status quo thinks, they call you fascist, they call you racist. Is the Fascist or authoritarian syndrome preferable for you right-wingers to impose a dictatorship of the proletariat? Tell me about it. Is the dictatorship preferable to the'red' or 'black'? All dictatorships and fascisms are the same under the cloak of this, the imposition. You say something, you're right-wing, you're an anti-embryo. Why are you incriminating the Greeks? I ask all of you of the neo-democratic Members and, above all, your leadership. It's not your fault, it's your leadership. Today, now that we are talking about, we have a regime of absolute dictatorship, executive, legislative, judiciary under the control of a man and a group of men, the Prime Minister of himself and his group! That's the truth! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I will tell you, whether you like it or not: we have a regime of enormous censorship, an absolute control over the means of informing, social networks, while the economy is controlled by the domestic elites. So you drive a nation, a proud nation, the Greeks, in enslavement to social, political, cultural, and cultural. The Greek solution will never allow that! The Greek will stand in two! That's enough! We're heading for the disaster! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the major, freedom of the press: A joke, the best joke there is, freedom of the press in Greece! Members of the New Democracy, Minister, Mr Skreka, will be very sympathetic to you: you can fool everyone for a while, as you do with the pandemic, a few for the whole time, but not all of the time. It can't be done! You're not fooling us! We will shake Hellenism and Greece to awaken the Greeks! Our country today is in the seventeenth place worldwide in freedom of the press. Are you proud of that? Seventy-seventh place worldwide, as far as freedom of the press is concerned! We've only dropped five seats. We were sixty-five, and we went to seventy, and we're going to the end of the hundred and fifty. The New Democracy, like the government parties and the Change - PASOK Movement, which SYRIZA is missing, unfortunately, has a pathetic effect. Persistence is that they consider the state as a spoil, they regard it as their spoil. And public property and sovereign rights consider them as negotiable material. They are negotiating anything, provided they remain sovereign in that state. And they think their loots are - what? - the pillaging of the wealth of the Greeks, the sale of public bodies and services, so that the ministers, the MPs, can wait and remain. You're making a mistake! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We live in a country where the oligars, the media, who represent the journalists, characterise the Kurts case as a case of corruption, while at the same time the journalists themselves, the means themselves are co-financed by the government to promote the Prime Minister as a Messiah. It's glaring, not to say it's a comedian, get you a journalist whose site took 700,000 euros for a year of advertising and call Kurts corrupted for 1 million when 200 million has entered the media funds and the site. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. And here, of course, comes the big problem. The PSE is responsible for control, which never controls polls, and is responsible for the representation of the rest of the anti-population parties, because it does not want Mr Kutrumans, who otherwise likes to know, but is too flexible with the big channels. The good news of the day, for SKAI is this, is a one-minute banned according to the PSE to present the channel. A fine of 15,000 euros the first time for this one-minute, so SKAY says, "SKAY", a tribute, because it's sponsorship, it's companies from behind and well doing, it's their right to do that. The ERC comes in and puts them EUR 15,000 fine, all over the world. In a district, on the Kastoria network, 50 grand. This is the second time SCAI has done it. Do you know what the punishment of Mr. Koutrumanos for SKAI is? Let me tell you. Recommendation. The first time was 15,000. SKAI does it again, second time, recommendation. This is the ERR of the New Democracy. This is the PSE of the poverty of journalism, poverty I mean in objectivity, but most of all I'll tell you raw, we'll take you to the end with the examination. We'll take you to the end. We told SYRIZA a year and a half. They're awake. We will take you to the end for the channels, polls and money of the Greek people. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Tell me, how's all the polls made, rule two years and be 41% again? All polls 41%. You're doing everything great! You're not making any mistakes! You even get more votes than you took in 2019. We're talking about folklore huge, popularity of the Prime Minister who doesn't exist. Of course, if you grease the mechanism of polling companies, which - now listen to them - get directly from ministers money to poll theirs. We're talking that you're up to the neck really dived in the boulder of lawlessness. Do you understand? You are acting illegally and it is not the New Democracy MPs who are to blame for this. I call it straight away. You are part of it, you are moral perpetrators of the natural illegality of many of your ministers. So we tell you about the polls, if you manage to fool someone doesn't mean he's a fool, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Can I tell you what it means? It means you're not worthy of his trust. The Greek people have trusted you over 40% to rule Greece, to punish SYRIZA for the Prespes, for the 100 billion euros, for the crimes they have committed and you are covering them today. Don't expect the Greek Solution to cover you when you leave the government. We don't cover illegality. I repeat it and I say it. So the question is this: we are on the question of justice the refuge of the poor, last on the bottom, bottom and bottom of Burundi. We are talking about African countries, under Burundi in the matter of justice. Greece according to International Transparency is under Burundi. Can you trust me? Can you neo-democrats have confidence in what is being done, said and proved? It's the World Bank. You know what he said about the Curch case? In Austria justice is independent. In Greece, no Minister of the New Democracy resigned. Do you understand that? Do you understand? Justice - it says - is not like Austria. Do you realize what's going on? In the Chancellorship, the prosecutors arrested people. The opposite happens in Greece. The Maximus team comes out and arrests anyone who disagrees with them and not only arrests him, but sends him to the quote. I'll tell you later. So some people think that sues will solve the country's problem. We can't sue the country's problem. I'll be clear. It's not solved, because they hear a lot of graphics. "Get out of court, sue, do these laws." There aren't any of these. As long as justice is controlled by any government there will be no justice in Greece. It's over and out. That's what we'll do. We will reap the prestige of power, legislative, executive and judiciary. The tiles are over. We're the only voice really. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And right here comes the big question. You're government. Is it possible to use all judicial and prosecution authorities against your opponents, against those who disagree? All of them? ERR, police! You're chasing every scientist who disagrees. They sent doctors who disagreed with the New Democracy's class of vaccines and forced vaccinations, Mr. Kouvela, Mr. Gaki, not to apologize to the medical association, listen to what you did, but to the civil protection service. Are you all right? What is science doing with anti-democratics? Couvelas and Gass? Your people, the New Democracy, are both. And Couvelas and Gatis come from the ravines of your caramanilism. Do you forget about this? Are you all right? Is it possible for the doctor to be persecuted for his scientific opinion from the anti-democratic, in fact? What are you doing? They are persecuted by the civil service and Mr. Kouvellas and Mr. Gassis and those who disagree. So what do you want to do? Juda? Is that what you want to do? I don't know. Kazantzakis wrote in the «Reference to Greco». "I saw a bee drowned in honey once and understood." That's who you are. In the end, you'll all drown in honey, because honey gets it to taste it. You dive into honey, most of your ministers and the Prime Minister. Only business is of interest to you. Ten words simple. Honey is power and the bee falls into power and falls into corruption. The bee is the government. Let's get this straight. And because the power parties refuse our serious proposal, we have submitted it to the Prime Minister, personally, to establish a public polling and manipulation authority. It's our proposal. Public opinion control and manipulation principle. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Establish a constitutional court, introduce a change in the election of our judges. Unregulated, unregulated, unregulated end to a democracy that respects itself. These Greek solutions will soon be solved, because we are sure that the Greek people will give us the right to implement our own programme in favour of the Greek people, in favour of the ordinary citizens and not the oligarchs. In closing and in order not to tire you, it would be good after the Romanian firefighters who came and wiped the fire out in Evia, to bring prosecutors from Austria to see if we could solve the problem. Prosecutors from Austria normally hack into Maximos and see all the reporters' payrolls. Aren't we bringing them in? And because, Minister, you are responsible for the energy I will tell you your criminal mistakes. You closed lignites, you shut down PPC. Hydrocarbon import costs over the last decade 150 billion euros, Mr. Screka. In the last decade Greece has given EUR 150 billion to hydrocarbon imports. And I ask you: does Greece have no gas, does it not have lignites? It is, Mr. Screka. You're talking to a man who knows the subject, he knows the field very well. And if you don't know, I recommend that you go to Mr. Conofagos, your man, New Democracy is Mrs. Fokianou. New Democracy is the people, they're not ours. They've written them, they've had conferences, they've had speeches, they've become seismographics, you've frozen them as a New Democracy, so we don't forget all this. But if you heard the voice of Solution, Mr Screka, - in April 2020, I told you here, to the Prime Minister, Mr Screka - we would not make it to today. You are listening to us individually, with the 'Rapal', with the 'Blullars'. You hear us now and then, but listen. So in 2020, in April, I told you that the barrel had 20 dollars. I told the Prime Minister here. Go and buy oil and gas. Now that the $100 per barrel is approaching, about 500% up, if you buy for 1 billion euros, we would have EUR 5 billion liquor store. That's what you say. You know that, you do this anyway, and at least you do something. We would have a liquor store of EUR 5 billion, EUR 6 billion, EUR 10 billion, Mr Screka, but you don't listen. Oh, no. We told you to buy gas. His price is 100% over today. You also buried natural gas and oil with statements by Prime Minister and Mr. Treasury. Fourth mistake. You buried the lignites. The value of $50 per barrel to be heard by the Greek people was €230 billion of the reserves that Greece had, according to the HEME report. Now he's approaching a hundred. She's going for two hundred. Do you know how much it is? One trillion if the barrel goes to $200. Approximately 800 billion Greek people's money. But we have here the Ministers of New Democracy to insist on the 'green' development and their fairy tales. In the UN, then, the Prime Minister himself canceled the oil. If you listened to us, we would now have to share with the Greek people, Mr Skreka, and gentlemen of the New Democracy at least EUR 15 billion in just one year. And the weapon systems would take and we would have had five billion to share them with the Greek people. Not as you learned to share allowances and borrow at a low interest rate. Like he's not interest. Let's see what happens after a year with this story. So we'll tell you truths. I told Mr. Screka that he didn't know there was hydrocarbons. There are two experts of the New Democracy, Teresa Fokianou and Elias Konofagos. Analyses of ‘PGS’ and ‘SPECTRUM’. There are posted at the Ministry of Technology. Presented at the international conference of the Geopolitical Research Centre in London on 12-12-2016. The size of the gas deposit southwest and southeast of Crete, that is, the targets are more than the largest look of Qatar, nearby, which has natural gas. So don't tell me it doesn't. Ask these gentlemen and this lady. Multiple, please. We're talking about Qatar now, Qatar's emit, Turkey's friend. I'm telling you what the people who are coming to New Democracy say. They're their friends, their own people. You're going to tell me: is this a new democracy? It's not a New Democracy, unfortunately. It's not the New Republic of Karamanlis. It is the New Republic of Mr Mitsotakis who is PASOK, KINAL and SYRIZA together. It has nothing to do with the New Democracy. This is where you're chasing Gas and Couvela, the scientists for medical reasons. What are our proposals? We have come here to table proposals. I don't want to hear a turbulence again. Proposal. Finally, nuclear energy is used. It's time that Greece entered this game and set an example, because some people wonder. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's clean, it's cheap, it's a willing source of energy as opposed to the RES. All governments are concerned, he says, because it's nuclear. Next to Bulgaria we have Kozloduy, which is an old nuclear power plant from there you get power. Doing a technological miracle, our nuclear plant in Greece, is bad? Listen to the other one. The French have fifty six nuclear reactors in operation as we speak. They produce 71% of their energy from nuclear power plants. What are the advantages vis-à-vis RES? Because you're RES fans. Listen. Nuclear power is provided continuously. It is not dependent on weather or water levels. It is not affected by fuel prices. It is friendly to the environment and provides a power class that the network of Greece can produce. With a nuclear. Are you afraid of them? Such a utero-phobic syndrome runs the New Democracy, this big part? Are you afraid of them? When will you be afraid of them? You are able to delete a hundred and fifty Members of Parliament as long as they ask. Is that how you're going to exercise government? A terrific left syndrome? Yes, because the Left has ecological sensitivities, Mr. Amyras, and she says she doesn't want nuclear power plants. They don't want any weapons. That's another story. We'll fight slings. Let's go to second. Another Greek proposal. Gas and oil extracts. The third proposal is to reinstate the use of lignite by new methods ecologically good. There are. What can I say? What can I say? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mr. Ministers, I had told you a year and a half ago here that, beyond the energy crisis, hunger is coming too, Mr. Bukoro. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation says that the prices of large groups of basic foods, cereals, vegetable oils, dairy and sugar will rise by at least 60%. Listen to the numbers. That is what the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation says. 60% to 70% will go up. I've been warning a year and a half now. The Greek Solution, her president screamed. You didn't hear us. Now, the 8% growth you're evangelizing, I don't know where it's going to come from. It's like Kaleidon's arithmetic: five plus fifteen, thirty-five. I'm doing something wrong. Again from the beginning. That's how you're going. We're, unfortunately, going out, we're rightful. The Germans buy food companies in Greece. Wake up. Gambling says from the "Delivery Hero", e-Food, in retail. It shall take over KIOSKY'S. They won't leave anything standing. The retail, the wholesale, the food industry. Here the Greek Solution, her president a year ago, told you to do something about the food industry, which is the future and the water. What are you doing? You sell the water, you sell the energy, you sell the food. You're not helping the Greek companies. Do you know how much transport they cost, Mr. Minister, Mr. Screka, to bring a product from China? Let me tell you where I know. Because you most people don't know. So listen. A forty-foot tanker - with a container coming up - for two months, how long does it have to come from China? It cost 2,500 euros and costs 13,000 euros. Now that we're talking. Do you know what that means, Mr. Screka? That this price will go to the product. That's exactly how it's coming. You're not doing anything. You really didn't do anything. ELSTAT's data is scary. The serious food shortage the family faces is at 6.1%. 13.2% of families are concerned that they do not have enough food for their children. It's ELTAT's. 12.8% cannot be fed with healthy and nutritious food. 14.1% of Greeks do not eat certain foods. 6.2% was forced to omit a meal. Do you hear that? Increases in natural gas 108%. 18% fuel. Retail 21%. ELSTAT says that. Lamb - goat by 17.5%. Transport with a 20 per cent plane. How can the Greeks survive? How can business survive? What does the Competition Committee do? Research the possibility of a cartel anywhere? Or does it leave everything in the air? How can companies in Greece compete when the European Central Bank says that Greece has the most expensive bank loans? It's not the Greek channels you're funding. The Greek channels are disappearing. You know how they do it. They don't put the news at all. They're throwing it away. "This doesn't do is against the New Democracy, get her out of it." The European Central Bank came out with a communication and said that Greece has the most expensive bank loans. How will growth come? Flying? And put the cost of energy that's high. So, what have you done, Mr. Screka and Mr. Dogs, where are you here? Soviet-type economic policy. You really are Soviet. What did you do? Social policy. This is a Soviet regime 'live with benefits'. In other words, you have wasted EUR 40 billion on loan funds - we must return them - without creating wealth. Instead of producing jobs, instead of producing wealth, the country produced extracted young people who prefer the EUR 500-600 to be able to sit. That's not what's going on in politics. You produce taxes, wage cuts and continuous sales. You have sold one of Europe's largest ports, Piraeus. You sold it. He's one of the twenty biggest in freight traffic. You have the fourth highest taxes on fuel. Reduce taxes on fuels to warm the Greek people, to warm the Greeks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Most of you don't know financially. If you reduce the taxes on fuel, your GDP will increase by 2 billion. Take next door to a good and serious economist. We have Mr. Villardo. Let's transfer him to you. Do you want us to help you already? Even now you say that tourism is the heavy industry. But it's wrong what you're saying. Now listen. Austria has sixty million tourists. Switzerland had sixty - five million tourists. Portugal more than we do. What heavy industry? You closed the shipyard. You shut down PPC. You closed lignites. What are you doing? You're killing Greece. Understood. I am closing here to tell you a few words of political meaning, according to the courses of political education. What is the importance of the democratic policy of counter-population, ladies and gentlemen? It's her attitude, it's her height, it's the reason of her executives. The Greek Solution therefore confirms the determination of all serious people and Greek citizens that its hegemony here is undeniable. He's not questioned by anyone. Also, it's right here that I sometimes say that Mr. Tsipras suits you. This opposition suits you because it doesn't make you an opposition. If, in fact, you really had a real opposition, because they have more time than us and more access to the channels, it would be different. The government is constantly devoured, self-reported, and self-respected, because it has no opposition. There's no opposition. So the Greek Solution is coming to cover this gap, the gap of serious, structured, documented, argumented opposition, in serious and measure. So it is time - and we tell all Greeks - to eliminate racism. Since 1821, we have thrown out the Turk, but we haven't kicked out the rajadism. Two hundred years later, now is the historic opportunity, the conditions have matured to have a bright future. Remember my own condolences in the next election. Not a fake ideologies. We don't invest in false ideas, we don't invest in fake words. We invest in the man, we invest in the Greek, we invest in the man who wants to make Greece better. For us - and we call it raw, as some people call it whispering - Greece never dies! Home doesn't sell, the church doesn't die, the story doesn't forget! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] All of you, what are you doing about them? I'll tell you what. You have become a queue of fake-left, fake-transnationals on an agenda with LGBTKI, gay-pride and against the Greeks. We will not allow any of you to take the Greeks out, lead Greece to chaos and, above all, I will say it rawly - we will keep Greece upright you do not want. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The party of the mayor Karamanlis must stand by itself, or it will lead Greece to the cliff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u26	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u27	Tell me, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u28	I would like the floor for two minutes as a parliamentary representative, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u29	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u30	We always listen with caution and what is said on our left and what is said on our right. It is the fate of the major government parties to take criticism, and it is certainly also a structural element of our democratic culture. I personally accept them, Madam President, because they are part of their role. What the Honourable President of the Greek Solution originally thanked me for what the Greek President said is that the acuity of the political speech offers absolutely nothing to our democratic city and to the creation of the institutions, in order to undo it himself by using characterizations of corruption, the murderers of the country, and Mr. I would like to add that these add nothing to our democratic dialogue. Moreover, what Mr Velopoulos said requires many prior-day debates in the House to be analysed, because, in fact, through a burdened speech, ideologically and politically, he has opened up all matters on the table. It's serious. I will only confine myself to three issues. It is very easy in the context of an energy crisis to propose solutions, the efficiency and effectiveness of which have not been tested in practice and in the field. And in any case, you can say about nuclear energy - and that is what it is, the evidence is right and Kozloduy exists in Bulgaria and fifty-six reactors exist in France - but we are missing that we are in an absolutely seismic country. And as far as I know, the scientists in charge raise this issue. Of course, the advantages are what he has said and are proven, but the existing risks that are highlighted and underlined specifically for the geographical area in which our country belongs are also given and exist. For our institutions, the President of the Greek Solution, for justice, for PSE, etc. We are now hearing such criticism. Let's think of having intervened in justice and the PSE. I would remind you, Madam President, that you too are aware of this very well that the election of the PSE requires an increased majority and its election is cooperation and agreement between wider political forces and not just the government. Where, therefore, the arbitrary conclusion is that the New Democracy has a majority that determines the ERC or the judiciary and the Council of State. We are now being criticised. If we made interventions, we'd make a storm. And what is very sad about us, because we really want to believe, as he has pointed out, that we are a serious and historic party, is to take such criticism, and indeed with such phrases. I always say that the prelude to raw violence is verbal violence. That is what we agree on. But how much do we apply it? All the people of the Opposition are ignoring that we are talking about an elected government and an elected Prime Minister, with a large majority, which has in no way been undone until now of what is being heard in Parliament's Chamber. Where does it appear that the government has lost its popular mandate or that it has been reduced and cannot implement its government programme to which it is committed? That's why the polls might reward her and strengthen her. Because it is one of the few governments in this place that what he said in an election campaign is being implemented by post-election. We can disagree ideological, political, economic or any other. But we cannot disagree that the government and the Prime Minister have a strong mandate to finish their work in the four-year period. Because these are questioned, the absolute self-evident. We say, on the one hand, respect for the institutions, but on the other hand, the top institutions of our democratic society do our utmost to hurt them. What huge contradictions are these within a single speech? I would say, Madam President, since I thank you for giving me the floor, that if anything needs to be left from the previous position, it is that the extremes, the division of the Greek people, the division of the political forces in the modern world and the enormous demands that our country and our citizens have in this complex fluid and dangerous environment, what is needed less of all is fanaticism and division. We, as an extrapolation of measure and logic, will continue so and we believe that we will become more and more Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and I will fight you a little, because you have asked me for two minutes and you have spoken for five and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u32	You'll take it away from my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u34	It's not a matter of time, but to catch up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u35	Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u36	Wait a minute, Mr. Heta. Mr. Famelos has asked for the floor for two minutes, and then you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u37	Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Famelos asked for the floor before you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u39	He mentioned us ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u40	What am I supposed to do now? Mr Famelos has asked for the floor. I can't change the procedure, Mr. Heta. Immediately after you get the floor. Come on, Mr. Felmele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. The Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, trying to resolve some issues relating to the right-wing family, has chosen to start by speaking about the President of the Officerial Response. So here, I want to make something clear. You are trying to defend all the issues of reason and measure. We want to say this: this government has been elected and all the governments have been elected first and foremost to respect the Constitution and the principles of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u42	That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u43	When there are issues of violation of the rules of democracy and transparency, both in terms of the management of public money, in terms of declining the media, but also in the propaganda that you are trying to implement to cover the weaknesses of your policy, then, ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation to raise these issues. And you cannot blame the opposition when it raises issues of democracy and equality. Because he is the core of democracy and freedom. In this case, then, we would invite you to come to a democratic dialogue that all the opposition parties are calling for in order to uncover issues of money laundering, violations of democratic rules, transparency and media manipulation. This is very important, Mr Colleague, do not underestimate this in the face of a trade union speech covering the weaknesses of the government, speaking of measure and logic. We want to talk about democracy. Thank you, Madam President. I was in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bukkaro, stand by for thirty seconds. Mr. Famele, we in the Greek Solution have a family, and it's the Greek Solution. For many families look for you in your party that have inside New Democracy, PASOK, Change Movement, Olive, Lemon, everything. Look there for many families. Mr Buquoir, let me tell you a little bit because I see you very concerned and concerned about tomorrow. You said that it does not offer democracy that reason, this phrasebook that we did not identify. Tell us a little, does the absolute control of the media offer democracy? Would you drive us crazy, Mr. Buquoir? Aren't you saying anything else, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy? You guys talking about splitting up? Are you talking about splitting up Greece in two? Your Ministers come out and they call the Greek citizens "sprayed". Are you two talking about splitting the Greeks apart? The traffickers and those who don't move? You guys talking about splitting up? It's a disgrace. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Bukkoro, who elects the presidents of the PSE? Who elects the presidents in the highest courts? You, the interior troika. You, with the same majority and colleges, put five pascoons into independent authorities to make your games. The Greek people have taken care of you. We're going down now because you said too much. You are not telling me, your Government without question is elected by the Greek people, but, with fifty seats, and 55% of the Greeks abstain from voting. So you have no right to make such decisions and sell Greece with fifty bonus seats that the electoral system gives you. They voted for you and be very careful what you say. But for God, you will not talk about splitting and democracy, which you control everything and the last newspaper, the last radio and you close and download media, Twitter, etc. "You downloaded" with the hoaxes on Twitter of the Greek Press Office which only made announcements. What can we say now? And you're talking about democracy in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u48	I will only give you the floor for a minute because the Minister must take the floor, because he must leave, and immediately after that, Mr Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u49	My dear colleague, if we need to talk about democracy somewhere, even as a reminder, is just this place. I did not use any personal descriptions, nor should I say one or the other. I made some remarks, as my position and the fact that I represent, because the great liberal party of the Central Right in Greece and in Europe has never been identified with unresolved regimes that have choked any different voices, which have been controlled by every media, which have banned their citizens from expressing any contrary opinion. We such suitcases from the past do not carry on either side or on the other side of the ideological spectrum. We have always been liberal and serious. We are implementing the mandate of the Greek people, Mr Colleague. That's what we're doing. I said earlier that I also recognise the excesses on the part of the opposition parties. They are part of their role even. However, coming to the Chamber and saying that acidity offers nothing and using acid political speech is a huge contradiction. That is what I have underlined, and that is what I emphasise to be an estate of all of us, so we will all have offered the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylakakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. I present the proposal from the Ministry of Finance concerning a number of specific topics: The first issue is an extension of the cheques for the companies in Northern Evia. It is necessary because people have not all been informed in the shock of those days that they have had the opportunity. The second issue is the regulation already passed by the House on Prinos to allow, in addition to commercial banks, loans from international financial institutions to be used. The third issue is an intervention to facilitate the payment of outstanding debts, which is a problem that is unfortunately still to be addressed and which concerns the possibility of general government bodies, other than central administrations and TAs, to receive up to 20 January of each year up to 1/4 of the planned annual grant or financing, so that they start paying early and do not become time-consuming. We do the same by setting instalments for the partial payment of the hospital grant to know our hospitals when exactly will they receive the money they receive from the regular grant so that they can make cash planning so that they do not accumulate due time. The fourth issue is the extension of the specific management of LARCO for three months. The competitive process shows considerable interest and will solve a major problem that has existed for many years at a serious financial cost. It is then a provision for the process of granting businesses and non-profit-making in the new legislation that we made on state aid. This is a gap because there are those affected who are also non-profit-making from natural disasters and there is a process there. The next one is the possibility of 'Commission 2021' from private resources which could make donations. And last but not least, there is also the possibility for the Ministry of Tourism to make use of donations to create creative material for the campaigns that the Ministry has abroad. That's what I wanted to present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u53	Madam President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u54	Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u55	Minister, we are struck by the provision concerning 'ENERGEAN OIL', because four months ago I think that the Greek State guaranteed a loan of 90.5 million, if I am not mistaken, and you are coming today and you are extending it to finance. One is that. And the second is what about Larco? Because we see that you are once again giving an extension. Obviously you can't cover the time until February because the sale goes for bankruptcy, so it doesn't come out. So what's the use of prolongation and what plans do you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u57	Very briefly, I would like to say that in the case of ENERGEAN, the relevant loan has been offered by an international financial institution, the Black Sea Development Bank. This is in the public interest, because it is better for us that the loan has been given under the terms of an international financial institution that, if you like, has increased guarantees in relation to commercial banks. That's the one and there's nothing else. And as far as LARCO is concerned, I would like to say that we have a competition that has shown considerable interest and as all the competitions need a few more months to complete. We think it's gonna be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. We're entering the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. Mr Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I obviously support the initiatives and amendments made by the Ministry of Finance, which in turn also put some cross-references to what I call a'structural bomb'. But I take the opportunity to ask the acting Deputy Minister to implement an expressed desire, which was probably accepted, orally, by an oral proposal, that it is logical that there should be a procedure to facilitate the payment of COVID in the inheritance taxes of people who have proved to be dead of COVID. I think it is time for us to do this. I am not saying that it is a commitment, but I think that within the framework of the measures we have taken to make it easier for our fellow citizens in general with financial measures to do so too. Also - thank you very much, Minister - to stress that we have just seen the SYRIZA agreement with the Greek Solution in this Chamber. We've seen that, too. I'm coming to the bill now. The process of achieving the objectives of the National Energy and Climate Plan requires continuous intervention and legislation that will allow for the extension of RES and also energy saving actions in buildings to accelerate. On the contrary, there are bureaucratic claws, and on several occasions the inability of the narrow public sector to respond to the new needs that are constantly being created. Such interventions include the draft legislation under discussion today, the need for which has emerged from the act and which must be implemented immediately. It also includes the incorporation of a directive on which no aspect of what I understand in this House has any objections. Thus the consultation required in other cases is bypassed. It remains, however, an area of exchange of views and possible improvements in the House. In my opinion, when some issues are urgent, there must be legislative intervention and be resolved by even going beyond consultation, a consultation that on previous governance too often has not resulted in anything, and that is why we often hear from officials from the previous government saying that they have not been able to do so. I am now in this bill in particular to be able to entrust parts of the energy efficiency improvement programmes of buildings to public or private bodies beyond the narrow public sector, as well as to the new role of energy inspectors, as well as to the issues covered by energy efficiency certificates. In any case, I believe that in many areas of public life and controls there must be cooperation between the private and public sectors, a process which has been fully achieved with the building auditors. We obviously want to achieve the increase in energy production from the RES and one action in this direction is the increase in the installation of biogas plants, the increase in the possibility of these plants having high power in the IMOs. As far as energy communities are concerned, we do not need to deal with them with fear, we need to modernise our institutional framework, we also need to have the possibility of having a corporate form. I see ideological fear, an ideological fear that we have seen a few months ago in the bill, which allows for example private individuals to enter agricultural cooperatives. The opposition is facing, particularly the SYRIZA, with a fear of this situation, which I hope will be overcome. On the subject of energy communities, of course, I continue to believe that the priority for small energy communities for the granting of a definitive link should be extended even further and extended until 31/12-2022. In order to modernise environmental audits the main strategy should not be punishment, but rather light infringements should be the requirement for full adaptation to environmental legislation. Unfortunately, however - and here I refer to the engineers present from the SYRIZA and, of course, to the Minister - we have the following problem regarding civil servants, and this is something that only happens to engineers, it is not the case for doctors. They therefore have a responsibility and they also have a general responsibility for projects that do not oversee. There is a vague concept of road safety, a vague concept of environmental protection and people have been running for years without any such treatment in the courts. It is something that the TEI and all of us who have an institutional role, particularly the engineers of the House, have to fight at every opportunity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need your tolerance for two minutes, Madam President. Furthermore, I cannot understand and I say this to the Minister present, because at last in environmental projects, particularly in the floods, we do not divide responsibility spatially. No one else can police, anyone else to supervise, someone else to do the studies. We'll have to do it completely peasant. So I think there will be greater protection for the environment, that is, for forests to be the services of forests. They cannot be four different actors in a process of anti-military work. Also, my personal view is that in projects requiring environmental management and supervision, there should be an environmentalist in the project group and should not go through these projects through central management. Some changes are taking place in this direction, but I believe that the way I propose will sooner will be done and these procedures will be reduced to a very large extent. Finally, I would like to refer to the question of the Mediterranean and Acheloos. The Mediterranean project is going on very well and we will not fly many hundreds of millions of euros. I think, however, that in Acheloos's work now the very small diversion is environmentally mature. Everything is ready, because if we continue to deserte Thessaly and finally the environmental footprint from the non-partial diversion will be greater than the effort made by various environmental organisations and an effort that might have been established in data twenty years ago, it is not based today. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. The Minister for Tourism now has the floor, Mr Kikilias, to place himself on his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u61	Madam President, thank you very much. I won't waste your time, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment tabled by the Ministry of Tourism calls for it to be able to accept donations of advertising, promotion, promotion of creative material, so that the work of the National Tourism Agency can be served every year in the creation of the creative for the very important part of the country's projection that reflects economically almost directly or indirectly the 1/4 of GDP. So the Minister of Tourism can accept any donation of this kind. Advertising services specifications are defined only by the state body, the National Tourism Organisation. Receipt is made by a three-member committee of services of course and in order to allow for grants to be granted to be exempted from VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u63	Excuse me, Madam President, I would like the floor for a minute to ask a precise question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u64	Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u65	Because the morning package of amendments was not that amendment, I do not know where it is. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u66	It's tabled, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u67	It's 1104.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u68	We'll check it out. I just don't know if we can ask any questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u69	Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Madam President. A simple question to my previous colleague in the New Democracy. Let me remind him that there is a decision of the S.H.E. on the diversion of Acheloos brought back by the Members of the New Democracy. I would also like to make a more general comment on the New Democracy colleagues and the debate that has taken place so far in plenary. Finally, this proposal for the Committee of Inquiry on the initiative of SYRIZA and all the opposition parties has terrified the government which I would like to say in panic. This anti-SYRIZA front that brought you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to the government of the country and you worked on it and we proceeded on the basis of these two and a half years of governance, we see that at least at the parliamentary level there is a breach and that really creates a panic and problem for you. Now to the draft law we are discussing. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen, what happens in Europe with the rapid increase in unemployment. In particular, the Commission proposes household support measures, tax measures, protection of electricity, State aid to enterprises. Other European Union countries, I am referring to Spain, have already taken measures specifically for the over-profits of companies to submit a specific budget, while it has been made public in the last two months that suppliers in Greece have been over-profit-making in the last two months. Here we see the government in its friendly tactics and policy to monitor developments, transfer responsibility elsewhere. It is an international issue of increasing energy, we will not question this, but there is a state's responsibility for implementing policies to relieve the Greek people. We see the same thing as the floods, the natural disasters, the fires that took place in the summer. ‘It is because of climate change’. It's also the cause of climate change, but do we have a state ready, prepared to deal with these phenomena? Do we have civil protection mechanisms similar? We do prevention policies or communications only set up some ministries. So I come here and say that the government is following the rapid rise in energy prices. We heard the Minister that the 9 euro accounts will be lower, last week he said 18, but that is not the case. It does not accept SYRIZA's amendments to reduce the excise duty on fuel, as we have tabled, and a year and a half ago, an amendment for weak households on the basis of some income criteria, not uncontrollably, for poor households. You didn't even accept that. The Prime Minister in Thessaloniki said that an 80% increase in energy prices would be covered by the state. This is where we see the exact opposite. Are you interested in energy poverty, gentlemen of the government? You want to turn us into us at that time 2012-2015 with the mangoes, which we all remember what they meant, not only for economic reasons, which is a serious burden on each household, but also for environmental reasons. We have here and the Minister for the Environment. It's his ministry bill. Ethics, air and air burden, is a very serious matter since the UN Council of Rights recently declared itself a fundamental human right to access a healthy and clean environment. In particular, tomorrow begins the heating oil. It's a 40% increase to 1.35 euros from 0.80 last year. Greece is in the worst position in Europe in 2020, about 28% while Bulgaria follows 22%. In the inability to keep the house warm in the Greeks, Greece has a record of 17% while other countries follow. We are now coming to the bill that, as a feature of it, has the handshake. At the time when the European Union is preparing the Fit for 55, you are bringing in a directive with a delay. You are voting - you are voting for your own laws by means of provisions, you are embarrassing to energy poverty, you are hitting the energy democracy that is the institution of the energy communities, as you do not bring any arrangements committed by the previous Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, of course, you are also interfering with the control mechanisms. On energy efficiency, I would say that there is hypocrisy on the part of the government. When you spoke to the 2020 budget, there was no euro for upgrading energy, while other things were said by the relevant Minister of Finance, Mr Stagioras. While the "ELECTRA" project was ready, with guaranteed funding left by the government of SYRIZA, you stopped it and frozen it. He said that: "It is good to come to PPC 850 million. Don't you want the energy pillar of the country that contributed to the development of our country? Energy is a public good with great development potential." PPC, the Public Power Corporation, you, with your dear tactics of privatization-appropriation you want in the process of increasing the share capital to give it back to private individuals, as you did with PPC, as you did with the TEDO, as you do everywhere. These are really serious questions. I would like to close with the environmental audit and the regulations contained for auditors. After you have degraded the General Secretariat of Environmental Inspectors when you took over governance, with the arrangements you bring, you degrade the role of public environmental inspectors, you grant public rights to private individuals, you give increased powers to private auditors, you create flexibility in fines and in their time of imposition, and the whole process is characterised by subjectivity and transparency. Each inspector will judge the seriousness of the conduct of the audited. And finally - with this I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you - a question to the Ministry represented here by the Secretary of State: what will happen with climate law? When will you bring him to the House for a vote? Did you get him ready? The European Union's demands are different. It had to be done already. We expect an answer because, as the Prime Minister said before the climate conference in Glasgow, climate law would have been discussed. We hear climate law, but we don't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mrs Theano Fotio has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I will talk about the question of accuracy that threatens poor and medium-sized households, the social majority. The economic, social and political problem of accuracy began, Minister, from energy, but not just from energy costs. Explosive increases of over 100% in natural gas and corresponding to electricity are accompanied, at the same time, by increases in basic types of consumption, namely oil, vegetables, meat. Go to a supermarket and see how much you get today with the money you spent three months ago. Increases take place in the summer of 2021 and worsen a situation that you had already created in the first two years of governance of the New Democracy, because in 2020, according to ELSTAT, the population was increased in conditions of material deprivation. And material deprivation is when you deprive basic goods. The important thing is that the proportion of workers living under material deprivation has increased, and since 2017 - with us, that is, with SYRIZA - it has been decreasing. Secondly, one in three households that are not poor - look, they are not poor - have great difficulties covering basic living costs - these are those households of the middle classes that you came to save from SYRIZA - but also one in three small and medium-sized enterprises at risk, because you refuse to resolutely regulate their accumulated debts. All this happened before the exact tsunami broke out. So, today, we can say that you have led Greek society to the threshold of a new humanitarian crisis. And I'm very precise when I say that. Most households cannot warm up their home and feed quality. Was this a reversible course, that is, could that not have happened to us today? We claim to be. How? First, if you're taking household income measures into the pandemic. You rejected emergency income in June 2020 for one million nine hundred thousand households, three million members proposed by SYRIZA, because then all European countries strengthened households. You rejected it. Secondly, it would have been irreversible if you had taken measures on energy poverty, which we proposed a month later, in July 2020, with an amendment, which you rejected again. Then we appreciated that seven hundred thousand households in a total of four million thirty-two, one in six, were living in energy poverty and we asked you for free reconnection of the cut-off electricity, free of charge for the population affected by the pandemic from 150 to 300 kWh. You rejected her, too. Today, 15 months after energy poverty affects one in three households. One out of six, one out of three. The Commission proposes, as a matter of urgency, the measures which I have just said, which we have been proposing since then. Thirdly, the situation was reversible if you were to raise the minimum wage to EUR 800 as we have proposed since the summer and as most European countries have done. What were you promising in the election? Increasing the minimum wage - Mr Mitsotakis said in election terms - twice as much growth. What's going on now? You are reiterating that you have growth in 2022, 4.5%. So, on the basis of your announcements, you should have 9% increase in the minimum wage. So you kept them at 2%, accompanied by an eight-hour abolition, unpaid overtime, e-food platforms, strike bans and individual contracts. Would the situation be reversible? Yes, I say, if you made targeted reductions in fuel tax - as the Commission is now proposing - in fact. We have tabled an amendment to reduce the excise duty that would also protect businesses, which you have again rejected. At the same time, you proceeded with privatization of PPC. In other words, you have given the country's energy pillar at the most critical moment of the energy crisis to individuals by sending a message to society that you will not control increases in electricity. So you didn't take these four meters. And where are we today? You don't have a plan for the forehead of accuracy. There are no measures from your government. You lowered the issue. You announced in PTH an allowance of 180,000,000, when only the charge from the increase in the electricity price is 1 million,000,000 until the spring of 2022. You continue a policy of social exclusion and the enlargement of inequalities, which is structured around an economy based on low wages and a safeguard for the social majority in favour of a minimum. That's the arrest all over. So we are repeating today our amendments to deal with the humanitarian crisis in front of us, whether we can save what we can save at the last minute so that we do not relive our deaths of fellow citizens from the fumes of the mangoes and from the candle fires to read the night that we lived in 2012-2014. We haven't forgotten, Minister. You guys think you've come to the country now. You fell out of heaven with Moses. We therefore invite you to give households free electricity from 150 to 300 kWh a month, depending on the composition of households, until the end of 2022. It is the households whose incomes have been affected by the pandemic, which has not received State aid, that is to say, the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed - CRL - are the one-parent households who in the last six months have an income of up to EUR 3 000 and are the households affected by natural disasters, fires, floods, earthquakes. Make the account! Include self-righteously these households in the COT - B created on SYRIZA for the benefit of the CRL for both the free amount of electricity and the excessive charge. Finally, as soon as possible, reconnect any electricity breaks and free of charge, regulating in time - after the end of 2022 - their debts in friendly terms. We are calling on you at the last moment not to reject our proposal again. The consequences will be huge and they will be scary. Please do not do that. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Bubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we must say truths to the Greek people, follow up on what our President Kyriakos Velopoulos said. It's not just accurate, it's accurate with capital. And we had the insight, and we warned you about the appreciations, because this year's only hot will be the prices of products that warm up. I'm from Serres, a prefecture where the temperature is already in one-digit number and you haven't done anything. Where's the Honour Observatory? Is that what the Minister says? Is it going to run on e-consumer the grandfather who's seventy years old to see which products in his neighborhood or in the nearest city are cheap? You did not help with what we told you as Greek Solution for small and medium-sized enterprises, gentlemen, up to fifty people, because when you owe it, you are prejudicing it. It makes you think how much you have to pay and ask for next year's income tax. But when he owes you the public, he says, "I'll set you off." I was young and old. Man needs 50, 100 euros this hour to go oiling so he can pay PPC, which you privatized, gentlemen, from the very beginning. What were we yelling at as a Greek solution? PPC was founded in 1950. He entered the stock exchange with a reserve of over 4.3 billion. Why did PPC become? He bought four hundred private companies in the 1950s, because the electricity in Greece was up to four times higher than in the rest of Europe. So the story - what we warned you - is repeated as a prank. Where's PPC's social profile? The collecting companies are calling the world for 50 euros debt and the other one can be with a oxygen mask and have health problems. Because we have said that privatization of PPC - by throwing the'monopoly' which you now grant with lignite plants - will bring tribulation, will bring drama, will bring poverty, will bring the world a misery unfortunately. And when a country doesn't look at being part of the ordinary social strata, it's a country with health problems. There's no healthy citizens. PPC is for this reason, gentlemen. Look at the story. The last hydroelectric power purchased in Patras in the 1970s so that he could have a social profile, and today the collector phone calls the world, the people. And I am addressing Mr Adoni Georgiadis and Mr Thanasis Plori. Wasn't that as Members of LAOS who tabled a question against the tax collecting companies, which we tabled as a Greek Solution in the Minutes of the House, so that we wouldn't forget where they were close to the social profile of the people? And today we are talking about an energy upgrade with the "ELEKTRA" project? There are cities - standards, Trikala, Janna, Heraklion, Larissa, Naoussa. They have taken steps, but I want to know how much the average Greek citizen will pay for the energy upgrade. How much? It's like the HICPI that came to stay. What were we yelling at? Lower taxes depending on the areas, lower the ENVY or remove the ENVIA. HISFIA is to abolish, it is an illegal charm for the house and the first residence of the Greek. With the "HERAKLIS" system you'll get his houses and he needs to know it. This will be the fate of the Greek with the auctions of the first place. And we're talking about an energy upgrade? How much would the Greek pay for deaf ends? How much will he pay for the new building materials in the newly upgraded buildings with the architectural landscape? How many wind turbines are going into this country? You took me to Astypalea, and you give them electric cars. What can people do with them? Give them at least one boat. That's what my friends at Astypaleia tell me. And you want to talk about upgrading buildings with frames that need to be changed? It has not yet opened the "EXECONOMIC" here. It was to open October 1st. And I ask, Mr Minister, why didn't the platform of the 'XOOKOVO' not open and how much will it cover in square ones? How much does anyone have to pay for buying a new home with new building permits? Because with energy upgrades, as the Chairman of the Technical Chamber of Commerce denounces, will we have an increase of 15% - 20% in homes? Does the Greek know that, beyond the homes he cannot pay and the loans, why did he lose his job because of the financial crisis? You're talking about subsidisation. What oil subsidy, 20%? You do well to give from 100 euros to 750 euros, when last year you were giving from 80 to 650 euros, but oil from 80 minutes goes to 1.20. And don't think there aren't any even more unfair people. In my prefecture in Serres, a thousand two hundred buildings have remote heating, so that we can have a clean sky, have a clean atmosphere in green growth, in the cyclical economy. You're not subsidising these households for the district heating. You haven't predicted it. Kozani and the Serres have air conditioning, why do you exclude them? You put oil, you put natural gas up to the heights, you put firewood - if they find out why the forests were burnt, no wood can be found for people - and you are talking about social policy, gentlemen? Is that how we're gonna be close to the Greek small and medium-sized citizen? He's here to stay in Greece. Everything that's done is fixed up well doesn't go away. It's been a time of Venizelos. We put it on account of the memorial. And we're begging today to reduce HISPIA, the income tax? Why don't you reduce taxes on fuel? More than 2/3 are taxes on what the Greek citizen pays for petrol and oil. Where did that sound again? Where did a excise duty come from? The excise duty is illegal! Why don't you remove him from cheapening oil and gasoline so that the Greek can move? Are we only giving him the guarantees and the motives for electric cars, after we sold out the "Larco" that was getting cobalt to the Skopje? Then I'm sorry about all this. It's been a long time for the Greek people. And against a privatization of PPC, and against the private distribution bodies of gas, the carpets will be many, the hats will be much for the Greek party. His burn will be tough. We must understand and be close to the middle of the Greek family. Let's go help him, not create income tax, HISPIA, advance tax. And when he owes us the public, he says they'll set off, and his money wants it at that time so he can pay the public, put the oil. What am I going to say today to the inhabitants of Serres on low-temperature areas where oil is 1,20 and is going to get a grubbing-up subsidy? How's he gonna get through this? And when Kyriakos Velopoulos told you "the minds of the children before they are hungry", take oil, make reserve, have the difficult winter days, would be winter due to the energy crisis. And I'm closing up with something that makes me sad. There is a strange quality committee that passed through the Hospital of Serres and asked for the images to come out of the hospital. If that's possible! In our own country, fear of having icons of saints and Christ and a cross at the Hospital of Serres? It has been denied retrospectively. Be careful to see, don't beat Greece in its national mind and Orthodoxy, because the Greek will never forgive you! And if we are talking today about energy upgrades of buildings that are the bill, protect the Greek citizen's house in the village that is traditional and there must be a special maintenance program of expatriated, abandoned houses that the man has no tile to put. What caps to put on the energy upgrade and the "ELEKTRA" programme? That's what we have to see. First, our people first work to be able to live and then you talk about upgrading the environment that is good. But first we must protect the Greeks' pocket, the grandpa's family budget, which by pension feeds his children who are unemployed. Well, finally show a social policy in the folk layers, such as the Greek Solution that is near and at the side of the Greek citizen to be able to have a piece. It's not about a living, gentlemen. It's about the living he doesn't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u75	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the evacuation of energy costs is already very marked and will be made more noticeable to households this year with particular consequences for the lowest incomes, but also for businesses, with an impact on the country's competitiveness. The government’s first reactions to the crisis were correct. Already 500,000 people were insured for power bills. Measures are laid down for the heating allowance and others. But the situation remains worrying for two reasons. Firstly, because the electricity market in Greece has been suffering from institutional distortions of competition for decades, which cannot be directly corrected, are not directly corrected. Secondly, because the European Commission seems not to understand the size and nature of the problem we are facing today, perhaps in Europe in general, in Greece surely. It shows at the same time - and perhaps the facts are related - to develop a dangerous dogmatism in relation to the famous 'Green Deal', that is, the European Commission's plan to achieve the zero-pollutant economy by 2050. Why am I saying this, the second in particular? Because yesterday the European Commission published a toolbox with the tools it proposes to the Member States to deal with the crisis. Unfortunately, as far as the necessary short-term measures are concerned, this toolbox is at least inadequate. As usual, it has many interesting and nice plans and analyses, but generally concerning the medium- to long-term horizon, such as projects to boost investment in the RES, to create gas storage infrastructure, storage of electricity, etc. It's all good and necessary, but they don't solve the winter problem of 2021-2022. The Committee's proposals for short-term measures are most of the financial measures, that is to say, the taxpayer is finally paying them. I am thinking of the European Commission because, as you know, the policy must be very much in the context of European legislation and European policy. There is also a provision for the use of money collected from the system of emissions trading, but it is not enough. Our Ministers for Economic and Energy, Mr Staruras and Mr Skrekas, had sent a letter a few days ago to the President of Eurogroup with a few proposals. Unfortunately, so far, they do not seem to be being heard. These proposals are very important I believe and positive. I am referring to two specific points: the Greek Ministers are asked by the committee - from the Eurogroup initially, but we are basically referring to the committee as well in the European Union in general - to allow additional emission rights to be auctioned from the strategic reserve of the European Union. It is quite self-evident, in my view, at this time that would generate sufficient revenue to enable consumers to be subsidised in response to the crisis. It is an essential answer because taxpayers do not pay these costs. They also propose the creation of a gas cost compensation fund with a very correct reference to the inability to predict prices and the market. You know, those who make their bread on commodity exchanges laugh at their published expert forecasts. The European Commission seems to be based on some of these forecasts. These proposals are part of a structural correction of the system. In essence, we recognise these proposals that the Green Deal should be introduced even indirectly to the objectives, because that would be the extra emission allowances for pollutants. It is time in this crisis to dissolve some of the errors surrounding the 'Green Deal' and the various ideas of the train about the environment and energy. Renewables do not generate electricity continuously. Natural gas is called upon to cover gaps, spaces where renewable sources do not produce electricity either at night, which do not work at photovoltaics, or when it has apnea, which the wind turbines do not work. And this situation will continue to exist for many more years, that is, from gas as long as storage technology is not enough to allow someone to rely on renewable sources only. As much photovoltaic and as many wind turbines as you have some hours, you won't be covered today. Many people are facing the European Commission's 'Green Deal' as if it had to be in the unprecedented of criticism. Sacred cows in politics must not exist. Europe's 'Green Deal' may have good aims, this is the fastest possible reduction in pollutants, but it also has side effects that aggravate the current crisis. Not to see this is dogmatism of a religious nature. Such a attitude cannot foster confidence among citizens in the targets of zero emissions, on the contrary, especially in Greece, which produces 0.18% of the air pollutants on the planet. In Greece, as I mentioned at the outset, we have had problems in the market and before this oligopolistic crisis which has existed for decades since the end of the 1990s, which started to create a market. Our problem in Greece is that the electricity market does not actually work. One example: in most European markets there is a possibility among market players for long-term contracts, bilateral contracts, which ultimately create consumers, domestic and industrial, the possibility of having predictable costs, to have fixed costs for large periods. In Greece this is not because the system chosen for the operation of the electrical system allows large players to leave it all for the next day's Stock Exchange on the next day's market, which finally allows them and all the price fluctuations to pass on to the consumer, all the cost fluctuations. And not only that, but as Professor Capros analyzed yesterday, who is no enemy of renewable energy sources, obviously, the benefit from the reduced prices of renewable energy sources does not, as things are today, go to the consumer. Why? Because the wholesale price, influenced by natural gas and what would benefit from the lower cost of renewable energy, actually goes to the special account for the further development of the RES. All right, there's to be further development of the RES, but not now that people are drowning or drowning in winter, if we don't do something. Madam President, I ask for a brief reference to the articles of the bill on the sale of PPC's production by lignites on the energy stock exchange. It is a sale imposed by the competition rules of the European Union, but it is in the wrong way here. The European Union is once again calling for a check. Why? Because PPC is called upon to sell part of its lignite production on the stock exchange so that other players can enter the market - quite rightly - but not only in Greece, as they should. In Greece or Europe. He already sold to Europe before we even legislated. The bill provides for very correct, targeted and energy-saving targets and mechanisms. It is certain that without this we cannot have any real competitiveness or real green objectives. But they are also the ones of the medium-term horizon. The task of correcting chronic distortions at the same time as dealing with an acute crisis is undoubtedly very difficult. But as long as his treatment is delayed, it will become more difficult. I am sure the government will not make this wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we all in the Chamber admit that in the twenty-seven months' time this government has had to face a series of very big, but also important crises, whether this is called migratory in the spring of 2020, whether pandemic or natural disasters of climate change or other factors, such as earthquakes, fires, floods and now the energy crisis, a crisis that has international characteristics and of course is not just dependent on our country, but also creates important issues in Greek society as well as in international society. But let's talk about Greek households. And so the government is coming today under this draft law, which includes key axes on which the plan for strengthening and saving energy efficiency will be supported. And why do we say that? Why is it extremely important and important? It is only of course enough to observe the international energy markets, where we see an escalation in the price of electricity four times above what was in place until before the gas price has been spread over the last few years. It is estimated that this energy crisis will cost Europe more than EUR 100 billion. Here, too, we can recognise - and I think you Minority colleagues can recognise it - that our Government has responded directly to these increases. And it is important to stress that our country was one of the first two countries at European Union level that went towards strong household support in order to cope with this dramatic price rise in the face of the energy crisis. Of course, it's global. A comprehensive design is required. And it is one of the issues that the States themselves prove to be very small in order to resolve and require wider cooperation. Such is, moreover, the issue of environmental protection, of dealing with poverty, and in some other cases the states are too large to deal with local issues, such as, for example, the collection of waste into a municipality, the cleaning of forests in this municipality or watercourses, which can also create problems at local level. And here it is true that our Government has tabled a proposal for a European mechanism at central level so that at European level we can now see what we can do for this derailment of energy prices. At national level, it is true that we support Greek households and, above all, households, who need it by doubling the heating allowance and the electricity bills. But let us see what the solution is to deal with such crises from abroad. Is it, in the end, to strengthen our country's defiance from fossil fuels or from imported fuels which are often expensive but also polluting and thus free our country from such dependencies? Here too, you will allow me not to avoid temptation to refer once again to a project, which is a typical example of modern Greek imperialism and aberration, which is the work of the Messiah. Since 2001, the dam is ready, the power plant is installed, at the cost of the national economy, because it has been financed from national resources of more than EUR 480 million. It will be able and able to produce 165 MW of clean energy. It will pay PPC more than 30 to 40 million euros a year. Yet, thanks to ideas and obsessed years, this work remains inactive. I am pleased that the current government, the current leadership of the Ministry of Energy and the Environment is finally pressing and speeding up the procedures to start producing for the national economy. As long as it remains inactive, PPC also risks enrolling it in its losses, with what this means to the company itself. In the same direction is the work of Acheloos, the partial transport of water from the upper range of Achelous to Thessaly. I will not stay in Thessaly's aqueous problem, but in itself as a dam that has been implemented in 65% and which could - since the water resource management plans promoted by the previous government do not include this project to deal with water shortages in Thessaly -, if anything, in a comprehensive way to deliver energy to the national economy. Also, energy could yield to the national economy and the Mousakian dam and the Gate dam, projects necessary to address the water problem of Thessaly and also to create renewable energy sources, hydroelectric power that will give clean energy to the system and help our country to get rid of this whole process. And because renewable energy sources are vulnerable to social criticism and are also under attack, I would like to say this to you. At some point in our country we have to agree on what energy mix we need in our country at last. Do we want renewable energy? If so, who? Wind power? Hydroelectric power? Photovoltaics? Geothermal? And it is necessary in this direction that proper relocation and redefinition of the specific spatial planning for renewable energy sources should be carried out. I shall conclude by referring to the Reconstruction and Resilience Recovery Fund. Our country will invest more than 40% of this programme in the direction of energy decommissioning, green energy and environmentally friendly processes in our country. I am referring specifically to the projects that include: the supply of two hundred and twenty electric buses for Athens and Thessaloniki EUR 136 million for investment, a national reafforestation plan to deal with the problem arising from the EUR 284 million fires, the interconnection of the Cyclades with the mainland electricity transmission system EUR 164 million, and protection of flagship sites and monuments of cultural heritage from climate change - because we must not forget our cultural heritage and our monuments - more than EUR 4 million. Isn't this a good example and an undertaking to support all this process by our Government? We are doing so, because we want our society to be resilient to the challenges of the climate crisis and climate change. The role of energy savings is fundamental in the growing battle against the climate crisis. Because for us, the climate crisis requires immediate reactions, but they will be consistent with the prosperity and growth that our country needs, with the well-being of our fellow citizens, the people, who really experience the burden of all this dramatic increase that I mentioned before about the energy crisis that is afflicting Europe and the world as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece has asked for the floor for two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Despite the repeated statements made by the Ministry of Civil Protection that all measures have been taken to address the upcoming bad weather, called 'Balos', it seemed very quickly, at least here in Attica - and I will refer only to Attica - that the nakedness of the state mechanism, in order to be able to deal with these weather and tragic deficiencies which exist in anti-military protection measures in Attica. Already a first record talks about dozens of calls to the firefighting for groundwater pumping. On the roads there are too many roads flooded. The Holy Street to the highway has been flooded. High water level is in the underground crossing on the three Bridges. The Liosian Street has turned into a river. The roads around the industrial zone in Koropi have been flooded. Aggregation of water in the contribution of Markopoulos and Lavrio. In a school complex in New Philadelphia, we saw images where students step on the shrubs and have built a shrubbling bridge to get away from the flooded school. It has flooded the 16th Municipal School in New Ionia. All these issues, therefore, highlight the huge shortcomings and the major problems that the state mechanism needs to face immediately. From this point of view, as a JRC, we would also like to call on the Government and the Ministry of the Environment, which is also responsible for the issues of dealing with the flooding phenomena, for the immediate, urgent mobilisation of all the state apparatus and all the means at its disposal, so that there can be immediate intervention to dismantle this situation for the protection of human life and property. There is no other postponement, Minister, against this matter. And we are talking only about Attica, and we are not talking about the rest of Greece, and much more about the fire-fighting areas that are already facing serious problems, such as northern Evia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Gokas from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, and I would like to begin with, first of all, the Step of the House, to wish our President of the Change Movement, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, a good and quick recovery. We're next to her, she's strong and she'll be close to her family and to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, after a year of being put into public consultation in November 2020, today comes for vote and harmonisation with our internal legislation, Directive 2018/2002 of the European Parliament on the strengthening of energy efficiency and on energy saving, with interventions, through programmes in public and private buildings. With thirty additional articles, and while several important changes have taken place in this period both within our country and at the level of decisions of the European Union on energy policy and climate, once again, the government is dealing with very serious issues with priority issues in communication and not with the essential measures required in the field of energy accuracy, which is already affecting all the households of the country and the productive classes. It aims to reduce energy consumption through energy upgrades to private and public buildings, through energy efficiency improvements processes through financial support to energy saving technical interventions. But all this needs an organized plan. It is unrealistic to set energy targets that cannot be achieved, without organisation, a plan and clear conditions of transparency. When the adventures of the "EXOCONOME" programme are known, which after the successful start of its implementation in 2011 has still not found the appropriate framework for its implementation, both for greater energy savings and for the support of the financially weak, as well as a rational way of submitting and evaluating requests for objectivity and dignity for the citizen, as well as for professional engineers. We hope that what we have lived in two, three last cycles with the keyboard speed criterion and twenty, twenty-five minutes for each region will not be repeated. I also recall our proposal of the Change Movement to save all health structures, hospitals, health centres, etc. Another feature. The case of the action plan to address energy poverty. The plan should have been drawn up since February 2021, but it will eventually be drawn up in December 2021 and a ministerial decision will have retroactive effect since September. Beyond the concerns about transparency on energy issues by abolishing publicity actions, it is true that households, small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers and industry will be subject to new burdens. They're already loaded because of the precision in energy. An energy cost, which is due to the government's inaction to take immediate measures of sufficient and substantial importance in the time it had to react, but also, of course, to the dependence of gas on which the consumer pays his subsidy. Of course, there are more increases coming, without a solution to the problem. The measures we are hearing about gas subsidies are not enough, the heating allowance does not cover anyone, there is nothing to do with the increases in popular consumption prices, given the increased energy costs of companies, in substance, burdens the consumer. Nor is the need to strengthen farmers, since production costs are borne by an increase in energy costs. All this has been analysed by the special speaker of the Change Movement Mr Arvanitides. We are calling for a rapid reduction in fuel taxes, a return to excise duty on agricultural oil, a reduction in food VAT and a substantial increase in lower wages, along with checks by the competent authorities for the fight against fraud. Only in this way can the precision wave be handled. Everything that has been announced is inadequate. Moreover, the adjustment clause and in general the regulated and other charges have evacuated the electricity bills. How will households, businesses, farmers, professionals stand? We cannot talk about goals without people being involved in the way and conditions of life. Another issue concerning energy communities. All these measures, whether they relate to the energy upgrading of a dwelling, or to small investments in RES projects, individually or through productive and professional bodies, must have a logic contrary to the Government's choices for large RES projects. Article 38 affects the priority of energy communities in terms of connection, after abolishing the priority, shared requests by a group of energy communities for the provision of a link to the IPTO as from 1 January 2021. It is therefore a matter of influence to micro-enterprises who will not be able to meet the same conditions as a large company. We call for connectivity between the energy communities that are over sixty and the main industrial farmers. There must be no concentration on this issue too. This device must be withdrawn. Mr Koutsupias, the President of the Union of Energy Communities, set all these issues on their right footing at the hearing. In practice, you overthrow everything. Farmers lose the opportunity to have this income from the two thousand to seven, up to eight thousand euros, and have already suffered a number of costs. You also need to solve the problem of saturated networks. In Arta, for example, we are going to close a decade with the network of Arachthos, while Luros’s equivalent was only recently completed. This means that producers and other activities are disadvantaged in competition from other regions and have been deprived of the opportunity for so many years either for investment in the RES sector or for improving their income through lower production costs. Also, give a solution to the issue of placement of RES. It is delaying the revision of the specific spatial framework, so large units are located with overconcentration in a few investors and in a small space. Production attestations covering whole areas are given. Valleys, lake areas "NATURA" etc. We have too many examples in my area. The particular developmental or local characteristics are ignored. There is no dialogue with local communities and there is obviously no discussion or commitment to substantial rewarding benefits. You must also finally give priority to the installation of RES in high-quality land of 1% which is planned and we hope it will come out the right way - we have reservations about this too - for farmers. Also, pay attention to geothermality. It can be exploited for many productive activities, greenhouses, farming, poultry farming dislike protection. For example, we have a very good geothermal field in Sykes in the RES that has no use to date. Finally, with regard to Articles 50 to 53 and changes in the framework of environmental audits. The Pissaridis Report clearly sets out the reasons why an independent body of energy inspectors should be set up. Instead, we see the role of inspectors in imposing fines, of course, along with all the other points that our rapporteur has mentioned. For the economy of time, however, because I have no other margin, I do not want to expand. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill seeks to cover the incorporation of a European Energy Efficiency Aid Directive, but energy is a very precise case for the Greek consumer, citizen or businessman, the framework in the production area is addressed to many, and the bill generally contains a number of provisions that concern us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening! I have listened very carefully to what the JRC parliamentary representative, Mr Karathanasopoulos, said earlier. Indeed, there seems to be a great problem from the floods in many regions of Greece and in Attica. Even here in the House - now I'm being informed - water entered. It is clear that these floods - which are still early in winter, winter has not even come - are a huge problem facing the country and civil protection is the number one to deal with. That is why the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has founded the Ministry of Civil Protection and Climate Change, which aims to deal with these phenomena, which year after year very much fear will become worse. At the moment, the two most important problems facing the country are climate change and its consequences and, to a second extent, the appreciations, the accuracy that there is no doubt in the economy and which is largely due to an increase in the cost of energy, which has increased greatly, thereby threatening the economy - it is not ours, it is the European Commission that has done so yesterday, and the whole world - and to be faced with an energy crisis, if not in 1973, but in the longer part of the last decades. And that's the result of the pandemic, but that's another story. The point is that these two problems are the problems that are actually tackled by the bill under discussion, or at least are trying to deal with the bill under discussion. We are living in very difficult conditions, and if we do not change, the effects will be even greater. I hear a lot of talk about the effects of climate change, but at the same time, for example, we do not want the country to be liberated. We all know that lignite is a heavy burden on the environment and contributes to climate change. At the same time, however, to flatter a certain number of our fellow citizens who - or at least they think - live from lignite say 'no' to lignite, 'yes' to clean energy, so that we do not have climate change. How can we reconcile both of them together? I don't understand that. That's unprecedented. Greece is being punished on the polluter market, and that is why it raises the cost of energy, and yet we say yes, to reduce pollutants, but not to defoliate. At the same time, we are talking about renewable energy sources, which without any doubt are the future of energy in both Greece and our country. How are we going to deal with this? What renewable sources of energy do we want and can we have? We are not talking about this at all, and opposition is not talking about it. It is clear that the problem that exists today from the expensive cost of energy is largely due to Greece's great dependence - not to say the whole of Europe, I am mainly interested in Greece today - on the energy resources. Natural gas is not produced in Greece, oil is not produced in Greece, there are no other production resources to deal with the high cost of energy from the RES. And if we do not progress dynamically in this direction, we will never reduce the dependence of our economy and our society on external factors that are sometimes blackmailing us at the high energy cost. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] They are already beating the alarm in Europe too. Europe has already asked the Member States of the European Union to take steps to tackle the high cost of energy and the Government of Mr Mitsotakis has made this a reality. Indeed, we are from the first countries - and they deserve congratulations to both the Prime Minister and the leadership of the Ministry of Energy - which has succeeded and promoted a generous package of about EUR 500 million to tackle this most powerful problem and increase the cost of energy. I don't know if it'll be enough. I wish that's enough! They may need more. But we must understand that at the moment we are living on the climax of a great drama worldwide, which has started from the pandemic and which has now reached the real consequences of the pandemic not only on the health of our fellow citizens, but also on our economy. For these reasons in this Chamber we must discuss realistically, we must discuss arguments and at some point agree that we need a common approach to these problems. Tomorrow there will be a debate on the management of the pandemic at the level of the Heads of State or Government. I look forward to hearing this debate, but we cannot stand any more populism. The country is going through a difficult adventure, like the whole world. From this adventure we are going to be winners, if we are responsible, if we are serious, whether we are counted and, above all, we are putting the national interest in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you to Mr Loverdos and to the consistency of time. Next speaker, Mr Apostle Evangelos, from SYRIZA. They will follow - I will read the next five minutes - Mr Liupis, Mr Andrianos, Mr Giannoulis and Mrs Alexopoulou. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I begin my intervention with the high productivity agricultural land, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is a natural resource that is already inadequacy in our country, so it is a real national wealth and is protected by the Constitution of Greece and the case law of the St.E., it is protected by the European Commission which has developed a thematic strategy for soil protection, protected by the UN through Agenda 2021, which requires the registration and systematic management of agricultural land, forbids its degradation and recommends its recovery. It seems to you, Minister, that the spread of photovoltaic power stations in almost all the high productivity agricultural land you have introduced with Law 4711/2020 are coming today and you are also sacrificing the one left to serve a timely opportunism and interests. Two words about forest maps. You are bringing in another extension that will not be the last, because it is not just the objections that have not been addressed, there are so many who have not reacted because they could not digest that their oil plumbing is forest and in many cases do not belong to them. You have, Minister, a decision of the Council of State which makes it easier for you to deal with its previous decisions which had been decided as unconstitutional to the procedures followed on the forest maps of the first phase and I refer only to the acts of the administration which are linked to agricultural activity and which are not other than those of the integrated aid management system. If, Minister, you take a route from Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003, Article 44 on the use of payment entitlements, which states that all agricultural land covered by arable land and permanent pastures are eligible for aid, then many problems will be solved. What matters most to all of us is not to lose, Minister, the work that has been done. More, of course, we will say when you submit your proposal. As you can imagine, I cannot stand up to my intervention in the tragedy that we are experiencing in northern Evia and no stopping. While we were discussing, because compensation and aid payments have not yet been started, we have not even paid 1 euro, ladies and gentlemen, for example, to growers and it is a question of survival for the people. They were suddenly found in front of another disaster. It flooded a large part of the coastal front of the Agia Anna Municipal Unit and the Basilica, due to the untimely execution of the necessary anti-corrosion works and the removal of the burnt out of the streams. From the day after the fire control, the work had to be started in ten days, during which the studies of anti-corrosion works were ready, to begin work, which should normally have been completed by the end of September, because there were also specialized forest workers from the forest cooperatives in the region and from early October we could enter anti-milling works. We, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Minister, have warned you that, with the unprecedented procedures for the space, you have attempted to deal with regeneration and rehabilitation by introducing private contractors in public forests, there will be problems. We have reacted to these restoration contractors, because they suddenly appear to have a public confession that they cannot draw up studies or carry out such projects, and that is why contractors not only finance but also carry out projects. At the same time, they had, of course, in the wider region of Northern Euboea, producer licences for 375 MW, of which 175 were for fire-fighting areas. How, then, can the inhabitants not see all these moves linked to the main goal of everyone, the installation of wind parks even in the burnt? You did, of course, have to withdraw them. But precious time has been lost. You could, especially in the specific areas that had changed to a skull site, have approached them earlier. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the attitude of your Government to the disasters that have hit Northern Evia is from the first moment to the present arrogant and out of reality. When northern Evia for nine days was burned from Evia to the Aegean Sea, the Prime Minister who has not yet visited the region said that everything will be rebuilt from the beginning. Five days ago in the first rain after the fire, north Evia lived another disaster and Minister told you that the flood had nothing to do with the burns. Unfortunately, what residents feel is that they have been abandoned in their fate, living in the sky either on fire or on the rain. At the moment, the situation is dramatic in my area. My thoughts and anxiety are there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u87	Now Mr. Lippi Athanasios has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's legislative initiative is largely an adaptation to European directives and serves many objectives. Firstly, the strengthening of energy efficiency and energy savings, secondly, the strengthening of competition in the energy market, thirdly, improvements in environmental inspections and fourthly, the extension of the deadline for correction of errors and objections in relation to forest maps. Energy issues are more topical than ever. The Prime Minister has put environmental protection policies as a maximum priority in compensation for the serious climate change the planet is experiencing. The main aim is to achieve the European Union's goal of reducing energy consumption by at least 32% by 2030. Energy efficiency measures are a high priority at European level. This objective is to be achieved through an energy upgrade of housing buildings, public buildings, and those of the tertiary sector with the obligation to energy efficiency, as well as by strengthening renewable energy sources. A very significant change for the state's energy footprint is the obligation to renovate 3% of the total building floor area of the central administration every year, so that in the long term we have buildings of almost zero energy consumption. The mandatory energy upgrade of public buildings creates an increase in economic activity and additional jobs, as many thousands of square metres are subject to an annual renovation. At the same time, specific energy conditions are introduced which must meet buildings purchased or leased by public bodies. Local and regional authorities are required to draw up energy-efficiency plans for buildings to receive such funding. Consumers must have full access transparently and accurately to all information concerning measurements and electricity and gas costs. Where energy distributors and sellers do not fulfil these obligations, specific sanctions will be provided for by a ministerial decision. Also, with a ministerial decision we are expected to have by the end of the year a concrete action plan to deal with energy poverty. The bill includes provision for a call for programmes providing financial incentives in relation to the energy upgrading of buildings and homes through the Public Investment Program. Projects, such as "EXEXOCONOLOGY", are particularly popular and are exploited by citizens. It makes it compulsory to check the energy efficiency certificates when the owner or buyer of the building is a body of the general government. The overall attitude towards environmental audits is changing and they are now no longer exclusively penalising themselves. They aim to provide initial guidance to professionals in relation to the changes to be made to be legal. The use of private environmental auditors will increase drastically the total number of audits, making the application of the legislative framework more effective. A boost is given to the production of electricity from biomass and biogas within the residential zone by simulating the limits for this alternative energy source in relation to the corresponding solar energy, i.e. increasing them from 500 kW to 3 MW. The draft law stipulates that waste treatment plants are subject to an operating notification authorisation and must have an insurance policy to handle hazardous waste. All of us are aware of the European Union's condemnation of PPC's monopoly access to lignite deposits. The current arrangements implement PPC's commitment to sell electricity through its participation in the Greek energy stock exchange. The responsibilities of the specialised expert, who is responsible for monitoring the European Commission in relation to the progress of the changes to be made in the field of energy, are defined. The situation that PPC was in until two years ago has nothing to do with its present more robust position. All PPC-related actions contribute to increasing competition for the benefit of consumers. Finally, a four-month extension is granted to the deadline for objections to forest maps, the suspension of which is effected in 2021, mainly due to the workload of forest directorates and, in particular, to the recent fires. In relation to forest maps, I would stress the special value of the two recent decisions of the Council of State in the enormous effort made by the government to clarify the landscape of forest and non-ownership in Greece. The Council of State considered Article 48 of Law 4685-2020 by opening the way to obtaining a non-disputable framework for land use by supporting the agricultural production of decades and creating stable conditions for attracting investment. Today's bill is not just a disgrace, as was described by the opposition, but on the contrary it offers solutions to chronological issues. Already, the government is aware of the serious consequences of climate change and has taken 40% of the revenues of the European Recovery and Resilience Fund for environmental actions. This year's winter is expected to bear a particular financial burden on business and household costs due to the cost of oil and gas. And here the government was one of the first to mobilise and took important measures to retain energy costs through the energy transition fund using EUR 400 million. To conclude, I should like to stress that at every change, in every difficulty, the citizen knows that he has a government at his side, which directly meets his needs. And this is a significant difference in relation to the policy of crisis management that we know so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, could I have the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u90	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to give some evidence because I heard Mr. Apostleos say some evidence of the anti-corrosions for northern Evia that are not in force. So I will give in a minute what Parliament needs to know. First, in the area of responsibility of the Lake Forestry, the anti-corrosion works are carried out in all five water catchment areas of the region. Three are made with contractors, by PPC, by the company "EREN". Both are financed by the Public Investment Programme and the Natural Disaster Programme. Overall in the area, today we are talking about, there are over seven hundred forest workers members of forest cooperatives. In fact, as far as the flooding projects mentioned by my colleague were concerned, the decision on the procedure for additional flooding projects also financed by the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme was taken yesterday. Mr President, the four studies on anti-corrosions in the respective four basins have been approved in Istia. There's a peculiarity there. Forests in Istia are private and there are forced cooperatives. They declared inability to do the works, as this is what the law says, that the one who has the private forest is responsible for carrying out the work. However, they did not have the economic potential, and so we as a society, as a Greek state and as such did these projects. In order for the members of forced cooperatives to work there, they were allowed, together with the other CSCE, to carry out these works. Today, therefore, projects are being carried out in the Satisfactory Basin 3 of Satisfaction with a restoration contractor and funding from the Public Investment Program, from the code of natural disasters. Mr President, we are not just doing the anti-corrosions. Of course we are doing so by making a first priority of the risk of the basins. But we do the anti-milling works since the fire of 2018, weight dams in the Mantania and Conodespti area. These areas had remained uncovered since the fire of 2018. We also took over these anti-corrosion projects because they are the responsibility of the state. Finally, on the coastal front, mentioned by my colleague for the beach of Agia Anna and for the stream of Achladi, we must be aware that this stream has been blocked and made a road. There was no way out of the water, and that is why we saw the images of the flood in that coastal zone. This flood does not come from filthy material from the forest. This is what we are emphatic about, and we had even sent before the rains of last week the forestry director, the master and people from the Ministry to make sure that the anti-corrosion works that the local foresters, under the supervision of the Forest Service are carried out and carried out properly. With the prioritization we have set ourselves. I would just like to submit this information, Mr President, so that we know what is going on in northern Evia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We shall now give the floor to Mr Andriano John from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the issue of efficient management of our energy needs and stocks is of course of enormous importance. First of all, however, because it is linked to the most demand for our time, to tackle climate change. The reduction of the environmental footprint, which is linked to the drastic reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, is a prerequisite to curbing the process, which is already causing frequent and extensive disasters in our country as well. The great forest fires in the summers, the waterproofs and the floods that follow, the void and intense droughts, the ice cream, the hails already make a gruesome reality, which has a profound and negative impact on the lives of all of us. Suffice it to remind us of the frequent damage to agricultural production and plant capital from climate change-related phenomena. It is a development which makes updates to the ELGA list, of course, imperative damages as farmers literally give us a survival battle against these unprecedented opponents. In this global effort, our European family, and in this context Greece, are also responsible for our responsibility. This is the point of determining the final energy consumption in 2030 by 38%, as reflected in the bill under discussion. It is a goal that will be achieved through the energy upgrading of housing, the well-known "EXOCONOMOVO", buildings of public, industrial and office buildings and the application of modern standards for heating and cooling from renewable energy sources. With the energy upgrade of 3% of central government buildings annually and with the new energy standards for public-sector purchasing and rental contracts, the aim is to increase annually by 0.8% over the last three years. At the same time, through the introduction of competitive processes to improve energy efficiency, in areas with high potential, such as industry, the tertiary sector, the incentives and aid are provided to speed up the relevant procedures and produce positive results. A prerequisite for the success of these programmes is a multi-faceted safeguard of their economic viability and this parameter is of even greater importance in this period where the cost of energy production has been launched worldwide by households and businesses. To tackle this problem, which is largely temporary, I would remind you that the government already has EUR 400 million from the Energy Transfer Fund and a total of EUR 500 million for household support, and is constantly being updated and enriched. We must, therefore, balance between the need to serve multiple at the same time, to cover at reasonable cost the energy needs of our families, businesses, farmers in rural electricity, which increases production costs, and we see the period of climate change now reaches ten months as it has been done this year, to make the best use of our country's enormous energy potential, to get rid of external dependence, to create the institutional conditions for greater efficiency in the energy production and marketing market, to harmonise domestic forecasts and practices with Union law. These are the guidelines governing the second part of the bill, which regulates PPC’s obligations in a way that substantially improves what is defined by the previous relevant law. I would also like to focus on the forecasts for the modernisation of the environmental audit framework, where important reforms are introduced concerning, among other things, the uniform way in which controls are carried out within fixed deadlines and the possibility of improving environmental management within a given period, without imposing a fine when infringements are found for the first time, which of course do not threaten the environment directly. Strengthening the certainty of law enforcement, along with the possibility of correcting in reasonable time, are tools that can effectively close any corruption loopholes, allow companies to plan more safely their action, but also strengthen local societies in the continuous effort to protect and upgrade the natural environment. Finally, I would like to refer to the forecasts of the forestry maps bill. There is undoubtedly a positive four-month extension envisaged for internal corrections to the thematic content of the maps for submitting to the forest administrative services which the citizens may have and, of course, to object to the content. With repeated interventions, I have raised problems with forest maps and Argolida concerning, among other things, the forested fields, the extruded forest land attributed to the cultivation without titles, the specific nature of the land's collection or non-presumption of land's ownership in favour of the public and pastures or settlements in forest land. It is good, therefore, that there is a desire to resolve these issues fairly and definitively, so that forest maps in their final form contribute as effectively as possible to the common objective of protecting the natural wealth of our country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you for the consistency in time. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr Amyras, I have heard you a moment ago get the sensitivity of responding to the former Minister, Mr Apostle, who lives the drama of the disasters in Evia, and lives it with sensitivity and human and policy. But I did not see you having the same sensitivity to answer because at this time we are discussing Athens and Thessaloniki with responsibility for the excellent self-government who enjoy Mr Mitsotakis' confidence in children, students, for example in New Philadelphia, need to form improvised bridges with shredding to escape the flooded schools. Mrs. Hornhouse, I imagine what she's doing. She draws up complaints against teachers to punish them, because they responded with an extremely shocking percentage of participation in the previous strike that surpasses 70%, which we had in this country to see and live for many years. Of course, Mr Amyras, I understand that, beyond the rest of the theories, which you are not personally embraced in the New Democracy - such as the theories of the two extremes and various other incredible theories - there is also the theory that is supported 'do not let the truth spoil a reality'. Times, feelings are created even tolerant to the Members of the Co-Population, because with what you are legislating or with the arms of your government policy, you bring them as government to the limits of tolerance, even the appreciation of the difficult cross they carry, when you seek desperate polling to make reality. I heard Mr. Screka lying many of our colleagues because they haven't read the bill. You want to explain what bill? Because a maniac has come up with this bad way of legislating, that is to say, the habit of changing the laws you have voted on and in fact being amendments with garnish bills, so that you can enter new parliamentary practices. So what law are we talking about? For the original bill or the one with the hundred pages of amendments with articles, which also show a sense of courage to say politically dictated legislative initiatives. I address Mr. Skreka because hours, hours remind me of Karamanlis. Not Kostas Karamanlis who tried to send you a message about social justice, about the European Union and about the toxicity of patriocapilia. I imagine the messages of this Kostas Karamanlis you received yesterday as government and as political practice Samaras - Mitsotakis are very easily readable. I am referring to the Minister for Infrastructure because this bill, its content and everything he expresses, reminds of the practice of the Minister for Infrastructure, who, after seven months of polarisation of existing or non-existent investigations into the fact that the pandemic is not transmitted to the public transport, when he had to strengthen a direct delegation case to decontamination of buses, recalled in the explanatory statement that he said 'because in the media there is a great risk of spreading the pandemic'. That reminds me of this bill. And it reminds me of it because, in fact, its general characteristics, apart from having a broom, for access to the lignite electricity production of PPC, for environmental control, for energy communities, for recycling, for forest maps, for a series of regulations that rather deregulation to the logic of the legalization that you have made both for work relations and for the National Health System, where, while we are experiencing very intense pressure, you continue to be challengingly indifferent to the fact that you legislate in the same way, which has caused the new nightmare of children in schools, high school and high school. At the moment, apart from the flooding phenomena and treatments of Mrs Keramos to teachers, today the educational community is fading, as will happen in the energy communities and in the energy sector and everywhere, from the phenomenon of populism of mergers where you now count twenty-seven and twenty-eight students in a class, merging sections in a way and dispersal across the country challenging. You'll ask me or you'll ask yourself why I'm not staying in the bill. Because the problem is not only the way you legislate or those that you introduce as political proposals, the question is that you do not have the sensitivity at some point to see reality boldly. We are talking today about the fact of pandemic and the need to vacate the Greek people and you show tolerance to a person by transcription from places that served the most extremist forms of populism and you defend the Minister of Development who is confronted with publishers who are benefiting from the list of Petsas who each day prophesy that vaccines are a product of Bill Gates and Soros. This is the television owner who also enjoys the services of the public-private company "InterVIEW" who had the beneficial treatment of Mr.Georgiadis by direct delegation to investigate public opinion, for as many times as he investigated it earlier in Thessaloniki as Mr.Georgiadis was most popular. But let's leave that. Is it possible today that the Greek Government and Mr Mitsotakis can tolerate a Minister with a channel owner who, on a public basis every day and financed by the Greek State, defends the theory that vaccines are an invention of Bill Gates and Soros? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President, for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u96	Not for a little while, Mr. Comrade, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u97	It was out of the question all year round, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u98	It's bothering you, isn't it? Democracy bothers you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u99	You're welcome. Mr. Comrade, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u100	You're elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u101	You're annoyed by democracy. When the laundry comes out at the forty-two million it bothers you. We're not elsewhere. We're here. You're hidden in glass towers. The polls are not your hope. Get out of the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Giannoulis, one minute will be excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I challenge and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u104	I would ask you not to answer and not to challenge Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u105	I understand that for the New Democracy it is challenging to tell the truth why it is intolerable, but what should we do? They have to be patient and listen. In this case, unfortunately, in this bill because you have turned the political debate and the public sphere into a battle between light and darkness, you serve the second consciously by constantly closing the eye - it reminds of a little energy switch or a well-balanced plug - on the extreme right. The only value you see for light and not only energy is how you sell it more accurately and how you will remain strong the few who support you in your effort to keep in power. But I close, ending up thinking that this is your great trap. It's the trap you're setting yourself up. When you will need to escape from history again, unfortunately, you will need cheaper power in your darkness to show you the way to the headquarters of Antipopulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. The next speaker is Ms Alexopoulou from the Greek Solution, which completes the second circle of speakers. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr. Katrinis and the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Hetas will then be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, reading the draft law, I would say first of all that it is really ironic that energy savings are being set as a national goal, while electricity is becoming more and more expensive for the Greeks, as is being said about buying energy, modernising the environmental inspection framework and correcting errors on forest maps, while at the same time bringing devastating floods to the burnt and leaving the whole region of the country without electricity. What do I mean? That the purpose and object set out in Article 1 of the bill to harmonise Greek with European reality is unrealistic and inconsistent for Greek citizens. This is because, while most of our compatriots today are unable to pay the bills of electricity and so much more - taxes, loans, HICPIA, a terrible increase in oil and food - they will also be added new expenditure on the famous energy innovations. And all this to bring Greece into line with the European Union. However, it seems that the Government has not noticed that we are called upon to incorporate our legislation into a directive on energy efficiency, not in a regulation, in particular in Directive 2018/2002 of the European Union. This means that at national level the directive is freely integrated in the interpretation and application that the Member State wishes to achieve, contrary to the regulation that is adapted without margin of flexibility. The difference, as you can see, between the incorporation of a directive and the incorporation of a regulation is enormous. Wind generators, photovoltaic parks, so-called wind power, all are a large part of the future of energy in Greece, which is naturally prepared. One could talk about science fiction if we didn't see the government officially announcing the creation of a photovoltaic park next to the Corinthian burns. In May the forest land was burned and in September the relevant communication on PV as renewable energy sources was made, of course, in the year 2030. You don't call it a coincidence. The Greek Solution stressed the first time that a law should be made prohibiting wind turbines in the areas of the burnt areas and Kyriakos Velopoulos very recently raised the question of photovoltaics in the House, saying that the rational planning of the installation of photovoltaic power stations is a prerequisite for protecting the high productivity agricultural land. Because at last it is not possible to undermine our natural resources for the creation and development of photovoltaics throughout Greece, whose centuries-long physical processes are needed. In its government program, the Greek Solution has in good time anticipated the major issue of the country's energy autonomy, which is one of the key areas that will determine the future of nations - states in new times. We have warned that the gradual withdrawal of lignite plants the government is trying to increase the cost of electricity, while we consider it to be the primary issue of ensuring adequacy of electricity throughout the year at low and stable costs. This could happen if the government were not rushing to divest, unfortunately, the most important public-private strategies. You are talking about renewable energy sources and about energy savings, but it is in fact at risk that the opposite will be proved in time. The Greek Solution, in order to avoid a possible energy crisis in the future, laid the foundations for energy savings: the energy armouring of the country's building stock, the reduction of the country's carbon footprint, the rational use of energy and, of course, the achievement of the objectives for which Greece has committed itself to our partners in Europe. Let us see, of course, the production of energy with nuclear power plants, as in France. Ladies and gentlemen, a country's energy independence is its future. And Greece, with the climate, its ecosystem and biodiversity, is indeed an ideal place to create not only photovoltaic parks, but also solar thermal systems, as well as bioenergy and geothermal systems. We have recently brought this issue to the attention of the House, giving concrete examples. All this with the appropriate plan could help to ensure that our energy autonomy for the Greeks is better guaranteed and not in favour of invisible global planning. That is why I firmly believe that this bill could be much better with great scope for improvement rather than with preoccupation and deserving suggestions. And finally, think about the Greek households! You increase the subsidy by 20%, while the price of oil is rising by 50%. How will the retired person, the unemployed average Greek, warm up? He must choose either to eat or to warm up. All on the Greek plaque! Poor people, you can control him. That's what all of this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u108	The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to forgive me the personal style of this introductory position. I would like here today at the Temple of the Hellenic Republic, beyond my respect, my love and my thrill for the new adventure of the President of the Movement of Change, the Phophysic Gennamata, to testify as well as my admiration for the strength and courage she displays, but also the deeply moral and deeply political way in which she deals with her adventure. In her attitude, Fofi Gennimata gives all of us a great lesson in the humanization of politics. But he also gives hope to the daily struggling man, the daily struggling citizen and his problems. And such important examples, such as Fofi Gennimata, give the great political responses to its tenacity and degradation trends. They raise the idea of representation, give it a human face. They give hope and courage to all citizens who fight every day with the difficulties of life and give the battle for survival. I believe, however, that it is also a lesson to all of us politicians that the power of power, of whatever power, often leads us to arrogant and irresponsible manner. It reminds us again of those and when we forget about what the reasons we dealt with politics and swore to serve. I'm sure once again the Genuine Foof is going to win, because he knows how to fight, and he knows how to win battles. And all of her companions at PASOK, the Change Movement, all colleagues from all sides of the House, all of her Greek citizens wish by way and thank her for the great lessons she gives us with this attitude. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is taking place today in the middle of extreme weather. I hope and believe that citizens will not face problems from 'Balloon', which scans the whole country and from what we see already creates a number of problems in schools, in houses. Obviously not everything can be predicted. Obviously not everything can be tackled, but you can understand that there is a concern about the readiness of the state mechanism. We lived in the summer as well - not only we in Elias, but throughout the country - the tolerability of the state mechanism. I also believe that the government is being staggered in relation to the energy price rise, with an extra cost of more than EUR 1.3 billion per month. Over 200 million is the cost to households of fossil fuels, while in natural gas it is over 700 million euros, with 85% to 90% cost. In this regard, the Government answers that it has taken appropriate measures. Of course, it started on the wrong basis in terms of subsidisation. The EUR 9 has become 18 starting with the wrong price of EUR 95 in KWh. It gives EUR 500 million today for the three months remaining until the end of the year, and I told you that it is EUR 1.3 billion per month the total cost of increasing energy for the whole country. At 1.3, therefore, for four months the government responds to 500 million by the end of the year. Of course, the government at some point reassured us by saying that this is a temporary phenomenon, will end by the end of the year, as will the accuracy of the market in the supermarket. The President of the European Central Bank has come to say that we will be concerned by the middle of 1922. The government agreed on this a few days ago, but I don't see it taking the appropriate steps. Of course, it increases the heating allowance. But let us say that for a family with two children in Halandri, for example, from 163 euros will go to 222 euros, while the disposal of heating oil is now starting at a price of 1,1-1,15 euros. It is precisely when the New Democracy officials in October 1918 asked a question and asked for the doubling of the heating allowance and the broadening of the social criteria. While the European Commission gives the green light for targeted subsidies, for tax reductions and charges charged to vulnerable households, for guarantees to avoid network disconnections, for deferral of accounts to vulnerable households, none of them until yesterday were in the government's proposals and what it had brought to legislate, nor, of course, aid to companies and industries based on the state aid rule. At a time when the country is facing a serious problem, large increases in electricity are threatening to declining other households, turning them from vulnerable to energy poorly, Greece has the second worst position in the European Union on the issue of energy poverty after Bulgaria with many households having unpaid electricity bills and the government has so far not legislated something to protect them. However, even in the energy upgrading programmes, which provide some incentive for vulnerable households to say that the government has a social person and supports the weakest borrowers, it is objectively impossible and difficult to integrate many of them, as they have to cover their own expenditure rate in terms of precision in the market and in the economy, in the midst of an increase in private debt, in the middle of an increase in tax, insurance funds and banks. So while the government says that here I am giving a grid of support to vulnerable households and I support this subsidy - which seems to be not enough, because the growth rally continues - at the same time we see a secondary market of red loans which were purchased at a very small percentage compared with the price and collateral they have and are transferred from fund to fund. In fact, a transfer was recently completed at 21% of nominal value. Think of what percentage they had been purchased, while formally proposed by the Change Movement for over a year and a half there is a borrower's option to buy his loan before it is transferred to the fund to 10% -12% maybe lower. This is therefore the case between the funds and, of course, is due to the fact that there is no revenue collection from the HRAKLE securitisations and the loan arrangements. Therefore, this entire gap should be covered by the sale of the loans, in a country where the private debt is EUR 243 billion, without including the unidentified debts between private individuals and the Governor of the Bank of Greece warning that the abrupt lifting of the support measures due to COVID -19 will lead many borrowers in vulnerable sectors of the economy to become red. The out-of-court settlement mechanism has thus far yielded zero adjustments. Since 1 June, there has been no single regulation. Red loans have not been settled by means of the 'GREEN I' and 'GREEN II' programmes. The next time the pandemic debts that must be paid by Greek citizens, who must pay income tax, who must also pay HISPIA, who have all the obligations of the past to banks and funds without first home protection, are unleashed. And all this comes to add an increase in energy costs, which is now unthinkable. Energy poverty, however, beyond households, which is unfortunately a painful reality for a large category of our fellow citizens, is also one of the factors to worsen the position of small and medium-sized enterprises, according to the recent survey by the Institute for Small Enterprises of GATT, since at least one out of six small and medium-sized enterprises says that it will not be able to respond to the energy bills in the near future. It is characteristic that many companies pay a large proportion of their profits to pay off the increased bills, especially those in the focus sector. For the sensitive sector of industry, on which the Greek economy is founded, and indeed the government likes to say that we have a very large increase in orders, we have progressed in manufacturing and industry and in increasing the economic climate, the cost of energy which is 35% of the total cost of production in energy-intensive industries - already paid 30% more than the corresponding Europeans before the rally - except for those few who have been able to conclude contracts with PPC before summer, will be 137 million more in September and 165 million more in October. All this costs are carried over to the whole product chain because increasing energy costs and reducing the competitiveness of Greek manufacturing in relation to European competitors, but also 80% of the country's exports, are industrial products and we understand that there will be a serious impact on the Greek economy by these rises in electricity costs. So you come with a bill after a very long delay where various issues are dealt with. You are even reviewing recent legislative initiatives. We, as a Change Movement, have proposed launching a radical change and a green social contract so that the energy transition is not detrimental to the country's economy, with significant support for energy communities, but with clear design and firm criteria for strengthening local societies and the economy so that they can exploit renewable energy sources. And, of course, we also need to see the cost of moving towards a climate-neutral economy. It seems that this abrupt depollisation - carbonisation cannot be supported - and I say this because I am putting gas into it - without an impact on the Greek economy. We should therefore see, without dismissing the objective of avoiding the climate crisis, how this will be done without having a major impact on the Greek economy. As far as forest maps are concerned, there are currently thousands of objections to all regions of the country. Mr. Amyras knows. I shall tell you that only in Elias there are seven and a half thousand objections and, Minister, a week ago the examination of the objections with four committees began. If the target of 100 objections per month by each committee is reached, we need at least two years until the procedure is completed. We must therefore find a way and speed up the process and people must no longer be troubled. I have said this before, and I say it today, that we must also be able to submit new objections so that thousands of our fellow citizens do not get into trouble with their private property. The aim of all this legislation, as is done over time by governments despite omissions and mistakes, is to make it easier for citizens and not to face problems. So, on the one hand, we must speed up the procedures by the committees and, on the other, allow citizens to rejoin citizens so that we do not go to the judiciary, which you know is too long and often incomplete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. We shall now give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Constantine Heta. Mr. Heta, you know you have half the time than you deserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you know in life Timing plays a major role. Today you bring a bill that, of course, when you were preparing it, you did not expect this storm to come. I don't mean rain out, but the energy storm. And while we are in an energy crisis, gas prices have been launched, now we are talking about an incorporation of a 2018 directive. Unfortunately, however, as you know, everything shows that this huge rally of precision, this energy crisis will not be temporary. I guess he's here to stay and he'll get in for good on the side of every Greek woman and every Greek woman. He'll blow up every family budget. In other words, it is another blow, in short, to the Greek people. The government really won't say that it's just watching, but I don't think it's a solution to the huge problem. To say something to make it clear. We are not using politically, pluralizing, now that the energy crisis is here to specify or win noodles. Because what we've been talking about about is the part of the energy we've been in. When about a year and a half ago, the oil was cheap, and the president said buy oil to have 20 bucks the barrel, there was no crisis at that time. Politics, however, means that I predict. So it collapses the argument that we are trying to create impressions in the midst of a crisis because we talked about it beforehand. We've said it too many times about the mistakes you make. As far as lignite is concerned. You're a young man, we're in the same order, in a new generation of people, active citizens and politicians. I want you to tell me really, what kind of madness is this with the lignites to shut them down so quickly? But if someone responds, convincingly, because Germany will shut them down from 2035 onwards. If you can convince me that the Germans are idiots who've been closing it since 2035 and we're the smart ones we're closing them now, I'm gonna figure it out. Let's get something else straight. We are not enemies of the environment, nor do we love the environment. But we use logic. We have tabled a proposal. And, Minister, see this a little. With an investment in the order of one to two billion - take note of the risk of risk is 300 billion lignite reserves, the money of the Greek people investing one or two billion is not much money. We have said it many times, our language has haird - you can with new methods, with some filters coming in, protect the environment. Look at it, we've testified it many times. It is a sin from God to expelle with the Greek people's 300 billion money to shut down lignites with a maniatre incredible, only that it is burdening the environment. We have said so many times, like Elladitsa - I mean geographically on the map, not by soul - Greece is responsible for the global ozone hole now and the environment! A China factory to close, Mr. Minister, is as much damage Greece is causing. We've told you, but you're not listening. And you say the other one. You never have a responsibility, the government, not you personally. There's nothing wrong with you. You're preying on the conditions. The pandemic came, the energy crisis, global phenomenon, came food crisis global. It's never your fault. Listen to something, we told the finance ministers a little while ago in another room where the preliminary draft budget was being discussed, you have no responsibility for the pandemic, and the budget has been shattered in the air. You are, however, responsible for creating a large black economic hole, because this black economic hole was created by the wrong, wrong, criminal political decisions that you made and implemented with the total lockdown for a year and a half and you put our homeland 40 billion dollars in debt and 40 billion in debt. Yeah, for the COVID, you didn't bring the virus here. But how you handled the situation and created a huge debt in Greece is your fault. Your signature is 40 billion. Isn't it your government that said PPC's tariffs wouldn't increase? You're burdening even more. And not just that, you're burdened with Greek citizens, and if they can't handle them, you're cutting them off. Aren't you the ones selling out everything, DEDDIE, DETAILS, Infrastructure, Energy Networks, Trade Fairs, everything? And you leave an entire people unprotected! Can you - again I challenge you and please - give us an explanation why the Greek citizen pays the most expensive fuel in Europe? You can tell us that the Greek pays the most expensive fuel for these reasons. Why should Greeks pay the most expensive fuels? Tell me. Do you know that only the Dutch and Scandinavians pay more than we do, but now do we not get into the process of comparing Greek wages to Sweden or Scandinavia? The Austrian pays 1.35 the gasoline. The Swiss 1.50, the Bulgarian 1.15, the Greek 1.75 with a salary half of what they get. Why? An answer! What are you going to tell the Greek citizen? Say it, guys, say it. Say, two thirds are taxes, just to collect money. Two-thirds are taxes! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have also discussed the food crisis. How long was the president calling it here? Food crisis is coming, we cannot introduce everything, we cannot import everything from everywhere, we cannot pay it all expensive and we cannot go on importing it. That is why we believe - and we have said it a hundred thousand times - that our economy must change its direction and focus on the primary sector. I am running, Mr President, two - three more minutes and I will finish. Before going to the next item, I would also like you to answer us, if you are kind enough, for an amendment. We'll be summoned to vote and we want to know. It's 1105. What does 1105 say? That applications for wind parks are suspended - rightly so - that even applications pending for licences are rejected - and that those issued from 1 January 2021 to today and suspended, are withdrawn. So, north of Evia, we're talking, where the forests burned down, that wind turbines won't come in. We want you to clarify and clarify us for it to be written in the Minutes as well - because we want to have a clear conscience towards our Greek voters - what is to say suspension. Is it temporary or permanent? We should know that so that we know what we're going to vote for. If it's temporary, what am I supposed to do with it? If it's permanent, we're talking about it. And ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I do not know whether the shock you have experienced and you are the same as mine, like the thousands of Greeks, thankfully helps Virgin Mary and Greece, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these disgraceful things are taking place in Austria. A corrupt country like Austria, where the Prime Minister gave a million euros for fixed polls and the media. Thank God we don't have that kind of stuff here. We're clean. We have a free journalism, it doesn't move cents out! Are we serious? And they host the paid, guided media, the puppets of the system, the news of Kurts when they've been taken? What Kurts gave for all Austria, he only took one means. Don't say a name now. One of them only got one of the millions scattered. And be careful, we're meant to be not against the journalistic world. On the contrary, and on the basis of a profession, we want the journalist proud, we want the journalist independent, we want the journalists free to be able to do his work without hindrance and free. But you've done it too much, what's moving, it's being executed. There's nothing. You've left nothing. Check everything from the first headline to the last comment anywhere, the Minister's parade every day on the channels. They have Twitter from the Taliban, and there's no Greek solution because they threw it down. Are these things going on? Shouldn't the President of a Twitter party have one? Did you put that on him, too? Check everything out. You didn't answer us for the protagon.gr, so, a site of yours, New Democracy full, to swear a president and a party? Are these things happening today in our world, Mr President? Can you answer us sometime on what criteria you made the decisions? It's going to open this in the exam that's going to be done. Sixty thousand were given to a media medium selling ten cards, for example, and another newspaper selling ten cards also didn’t get a single cent. How is that possible? Explain to us. So you're sharing the money depending on the liqueur. Where Lebanese smells and you've been smiling all day, you've been sharing money.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u112	Finish, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a really minute. Shall we go deeper? Tell us how it became a means of informing the media, that is, the one who baptized Prime Minister Moses - is there a specific newspaper - which took money and then two months later suspended its operation? How did that happen, guys? How? Tell us all this. I'm hanging up here, Mr. President. You're doing everything with the money, all of it. What's not solved, Minister, with money, do you know what's going on? With more money. And you're doing everything with the money. "Take and do" or "take to get", this is your strategic choice. And even the young people, our youths fifteen to eighteen years old, give them 50GB on their cell phone to be vaccinated for five months now. Do you know how much this market is doing? It's 10 to 15 euros. And you do it because it's very simply in your DNA, that you can do everything with the money, of course not with your money, but with the money of the Greek people. And it's wrong, it's political against you. When a government cannot convince the people, the Greek citizens, its citizens for the project, for the plan, and goes to do so by bribing them, it has lost the game, Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u114	Mr Mamulakis Charalambos has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Boutsikakis will be followed by Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis. Here, Mr Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy basically has a European debate, a European station for the future of the green transition to a united Europe. A front, a flagrant directive which, unfortunately, did not receive appropriate approval from the government. And it is a symbolic demonstration of these words that we are not prepared to do anything about it until it comes to the Greek Parliament. I would remind you that there has been a final date, the so-called deadline, since June 2020. Nothing happened at the time with your predecessor, Mr. Hatzidakis. We arrived at a yearly warning by the European Commission in October 2020, to come now, a whole year after - and indeed, an excellent Timing in terms of the energy crisis - a directive, which is incorporated into this draft law. So, since the epitome of the speech is always our actions and your actions and your delays, it shows that you do not in fact have the response to the climate crisis, the emblematic effort to go to a new, green age, but it is only the umbilical communication character that is embedded in your political speech, which is why we believe that this effort, apart from being reasonably delayed, also needs many points of emphasis. This directive, however, is very important for two main reasons: First, the reason for extending the institutional framework resulting from the incorporation of previous Directives into L.4342/2015 indicates the scope for energy savings as the largest source of a contraction in carbon dioxide emissions. So, essentially even more than renewable energy sources, even more than electricity, more than any of these policy guidelines, are prevention. It is essentially the first approach to save energy. Good production through renewable sources, but forward we should raise the issue of savings. Energy saving is the key to achieving ambitious European objectives, and this is how each country is invited to see the renewal of its building stock, not as a substitute for the construction sector, but as a basic project for the completion of this transitional energy reform. Secondly, the European Union directive in 2018 is the first one that explicitly and unequivocally identifies energy poverty as one of the main social issues, as one of the key social issues affecting the European continent. It is a problem that, unfortunately, is growing from the choices made by the European institutions and governments themselves, of course, because of the way in which this energy transition is being chosen. In today's Europe, the transition to renewable energy is done on market terms. Petroleum consumption is reduced again on market terms. The transition to electricity is done on market terms. And all the above options lead to the transfer of the cost of this transition to the consumer himself. European citizens and businesses are therefore becoming as green as their pockets can stand. This directive, however, creates a security margin so that the energy transition of at least the European countries' building stock does not take place on market terms but on social terms. The directive at first attempts to create the conditions so that the cost of the energy upgrading of buildings does not be passed on to landlords by exacerbating green geography and repulsion of poorer social layers from city centres in the name of the energy transition of urban fabric. Indicatively only: The obligation to draw up energy efficiency plans by local authorities to integrate the building stock into energy upgrading programmes. The competitive process for promoting energy efficiency actions. The compulsory preparation of national plans to deal with energy poverty. However, also in this part of the law, like elsewhere, the relationship between the New Democracy, the relationship between the ruling party and the European obligations of the country is clearly characterised by the logic of the minor effort. The directive comes with unreasonable delay, as I have said before, and with great omissions or uncertainties, capable of serving the special economic interest groups which are solely concerned with the government in a more permanent manner. The Government filed this law by neglecting to implement the energy saving programme in the public buildings delivered by SYRIZA, the ‘ELECTRA’ programme. I would remind you that the ETUC of SYRIZA and the New Democracy are two distinct issues that can be compared, in fact, quantitatively and quantitatively. The ESRB, therefore, stated that 3% of the area of the public administration would be constantly upgraded, relentlessly and annually. What has been achieved by the New Democracy? 0% in 2020, 0% in 2021 and prepares for a third zero in 2022. Take note here of the deep inefficiency of the predecessor, Mr Hatzidakis, who, through the constant appreciations and increases in the size of the interventions he has made in the name of the deep renovations, has led to 850 million euros being allocated - take note of the number, because they are truly comparable and tangible results and differences which are distinctly clear, and because of the result they can judge too much - in order to subsidise our thirty-nine thousand fellow citizens. For example, the SYRIZA EXOMOVO programme has made 550 million euros available, but 50 000 families. SYRIZA was a much more efficient use of the resources available to achieve national energy savings targets than the current government. And of course, SYRIZA was a socially fair distribution of the available resources, as the beneficiaries of this programme were our citizens from much lower income groups and since the inclusion in these programmes did not oblige beneficiaries to make bank loans at the same time, a bank loan for which we all know that the majority of the social groups and especially the vulnerable social groups are excluded. So, here we have essentially achieved a dual objective as a government against you who artificially exclude too many social groups because you have to leverage aid through bank borrowing, which we know, unfortunately, is very small on the part of small and medium-sized enterprises. So in view of all the above, I dare say that today's law in the part at least concerning energy savings is not part of it. It is an obligation that the government is making with this bill and hardly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u116	I now call on Mr Christoforos Boutsikaki from the New Democracy to step up the process. Then we will give the floor to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Placiotakis, to develop his Ministry's amendment, then to Mr Brutsis and then to Mr Gregoriadis, who is a Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25. You have the floor, Mr. Boutsikaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been listening for some time to the debates and speeches of the Vice-Presidents. What I can say is that this government has shown in the past two years that at the heart of its policy is sustainable development, sustainable development, innovative development. With the modernisation of PPC, by privatising PPA, with the orderly functioning of the energy market, the promotion of RES and electricity mobilisation have laid the foundations for the overall energy modernisation of the country and its economy, while always respecting the protection of the environment, in order to make energy accessible to all citizens, to households, businesses, to ensure the best seasons and benefits at the lowest possible cost. This is the New Democracy policy. This is the policy of progress, development and prosperity of all citizens. With today's bill, one of the many things you have failed to bring to Parliament - because this harmonisation that we are voting on today is from 2018 - we have set specific national targets for energy savings and we are ensuring that they are achieved. By upgrading infrastructure and with specific measurable policies we reduce the final energy consumption in industry, transport, business, households by 38% to 2030 compared to 2017. We are simultaneously setting an annual target of 0.8% for saving each year compared to the last three years. The good example will be given before anyone else, the Greek State itself, because we predict upgrading to 3% of the central government buildings. The public will buy and lease from now on only energy-efficient buildings. In addition, we are dealing with the issue raised by the European Commission's decision on the exploitation of lignite extraction rights. We are putting an end to the disinvestment obligation imposed by the previous government on PPC and avoiding the risk of imposing a fine due to the non-compliance of the country with European obligations. Another important aspect of today's draft law is the modernisation of the environmental audit and inspection framework, so that it can be carried out in a uniform manner and within specified deadlines. Where infringements are found, for the first time, the possibility of improving environmental management within that time limit is allowed for the person responsible to comply in practice and to be able to cope with it. Fines, however, will always be imposed when we are dealing with cases of ongoing infringements or infringements which pose a direct risk to public health or threaten to have a direct negative impact on the environment. The same applies to the imposition of administrative penalties on infringements which are both criminal offences. Finally, another problem that we are resolving with today's bill is the granting of a new deadline for the submission of objections and documents. This is to correct serious errors in the contents of forest maps, which, in many cases, as in the islands of my region, still exist to date. Ladies and gentlemen, from the nineteenth-century industrial revolution to the technological revolution of today and the transition to the digital age of tomorrow, the good functioning of energy is a prerequisite for the development of the economy and the well-being of our society. By improving performance throughout the energy chain, from production, transport and distribution, until the final use of energy, we are making savings at levels that we could not have imagined with all the benefits that this entails for the national economy, the protection of the environment, the reduction of costs for businesses and households, and ultimately the overall improvement of the quality of life of citizens. For all these reasons I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u118	We thank Mr Butsikaki for the consistency in time. We shall now give the floor to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Placiotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. The proposed amendment includes two strands. In the first part, essentially, there is an accounting for 2020 expenditure for spare parts for air instruments. They are settled in 2021, because they are received within the year. On this occasion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the strategy that we are pursuing to strengthen air operations. We're actually moving on two levels. First of all, for the existing air means, there is now a specific timing through NATO's Special Service, NSPA, NATO Supply Procurement Agreement, to restore the navigability of operational means. It's a tested recipe, both from the Greek Police and the Fire Corps. This NATO agency has the highest technology, but of course it also has the highest credibility. I would also like to inform you that on our initiative, funding has been approved by the Integrated Border Management Fund for the upgrading and supply of new operational air means and for the upgrading of existing air instruments, amounting to EUR 81 million, which will greatly upgrade the operational capabilities of the port House. As far as the second part is concerned, it is practically a temporary one, but a compulsory provision. And why is that? Because in global shipping the biggest problem at the moment that exists and still exists is the replacement of crews and repatriation. According to a last survey in April 2020 by the International Maritime Organisation, there were times when three hundred thousand seafarers remained trapped over a year. We are therefore giving a quarter, by the end of the year, essentially to serve the return of the Greek seafarers and of course to ensure the safe and effective operation of the ships. We all know very well that the stay of seafarers for a very long period of time is burdening both physical and mental health. The consequences, therefore, and because of the specific nature of the maritime profession, are extremely great, and of course we must all understand that for the seafarer the ship is both the workplace and the home at the same time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece has asked for the floor, which we will give him immediately, and Mr Famelos, a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, in relation to the amendment by Mr Paciotakis of the Ministry of Shipping. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u121	Well, we want to denounce, we don't want to ask a question. We want to denounce the unacceptable tactics of the Minister for Commercial Shipping. It's not the first time, it's the second time. The same way, with an amendment, it abolished the collective agreements between seafarers on seagoing vessels, again because of COVID. And now there is an amendment that is irrelevant, in an irrelevant bill, which has no urgency, to abolish the organic composition of ships. Suspend, he says, temporarily. In our village we say 'no more permanent of the temporary'. And you come here a year and a half after the pandemic? Now? To dismantle the prisoners? What measures did the Ministry of Shipping take to dismantle the enclaved people who existed when the JRC, with several questions, called on you to proceed to specific declaratory measures? And now you come to abolish the organic composition, at a time when shipowners build new vapours, at a time when they see their profits ejected because of the fare ejection, bring a provocative measure, which literally breaks everything left of the seafarers' right. That's a challenge. We call on you to withdraw this amendment, Mr Minister, as a JRC. If you'd like to bring her in, get her to discuss her here properly, get the marine organizations to come and say their views. Because your maritime organisations are denouncing you and requesting an emergency convening of the Executive Committee for this monstrosity you bring into the middle of the night. If you do not do so, if you do not withdraw the amendment, the JRC will submit a request for a roll-call vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u122	Good, Mr. Karathanasopus. Mr. Famelos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask questions about both parts of the amendment you have put. Politics I fully agree with the comment so far. But we need to understand just a little as a plenary what exactly you bring. In fact, in an unrelated bill, in an unacceptable procedure, namely on the last day of the evening, at midnight, you bring an amendment, which - from what I have said - extends for a while. I, however, see, for nine months, that it is still continuing to implement Greek shipping legislation. So it's not for a while, it's for nine months and even with the invoicing of the pandemic, when travel restrictions on shipping have been suspended. In other words, for workers and shipowners, there are restrictions which do not apply to shipping, and for the benefit of shipowners, to the detriment of workers and possibly the safety of shipping, because you are imposing an extension of nine months, if I am not mistaken - because you said small - to the staffing of ships. So the question is: First, why is it small? Where's the little one? Is it a month? Is it two months? Secondly, why is this suspension not compatible with other restrictions? It is, if you wish, an amendment which opens a war against the Greek seafarers and even when the Greek shipping industry has succeeded for Greek seafarers too, not to mention, first of all, the Greek seafarers. You reduce the income of workers in shipping. You are therefore degrading the income of many regions of Greece and the purchasing power and these amendments have been made several times by you to bring ships to the Greek flag. So let the Mitsotakis Government tell us how many ships have come to the Greek flag by invoking the reduction of the seamen's income? How many ships have they come with the limitation of Greek shipping staff obligations? First, why don't you tell us why it's not one or two months old? Because it is very clear that the nine-month period for non-compliance with organic compositions is very long. Secondly, can you tell us why it is being applied, since there are no travel bans? Thirdly, where has this contributed and how much have you strengthened the Greek flag? Fourthly, what right does it prohibit the Greek regions from reducing the income of workers? Who is this government that is entitled to do carpets and ruffles to the shipowners at the expense of the workers and the development of our country? Is that a policy that benefits the national economy? Is it because of local income? What is the benefit of the country's competitiveness? Tell us where you've advanced the competitiveness of Greece. So we have questions, because our position is clear, that is, you are making a rheumatism at the expense of the workers. For the second part, I wanted to ask you: you are legislating a warrant with an amendment, if I am not mistaken, for air means. I'm going to ask a simple question: how much money are we talking about, Mr. Plakatakis? Because I am surprised, why should there not be in the report? We have so quickly looked into whether there is a description of the amount, because it gives us an impression of legalising a warrant for money, but are you not telling us at least the financial content of this legalisation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u124	Good. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, I will not get far, but I will speak very little until Mr Brutsi gets up in Stepma. MARA25 also denounces the amendment tabled by the Minister and we are fully associated with the Communist Party of Greece and SYRIZA. We consider it unacceptable and please, we beg, but above all we demand that it be withdrawn immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u126	Good. There is no other Member or Parliamentary representative who wants to speak. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u127	First of all, why amendment? Because shipping, ladies and gentlemen, is an activity that does not stop. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the global community has not yet agreed on uniform measures to repatriate seafarers. The fact that the problem is currently in existence exists. Repatriation and replacement of crews are the major problem that it employs, not only Greek shipping, but global shipping. Therefore, I repeat that this is a temporary measure, which obviously directly tackles the problem. In any case, however, ladies and gentlemen, you have opened a wider discussion on the competitiveness of Greek shipping, on the employment of Greek seafarers. Look, this government has shown that it also reinforces the attraction of ships to Greek flags and of course institutionally strengthens the competitiveness of Greek shipping, while at the same time promoting arrangements that will strengthen the Greek register by strengthening the digital transformation of the Ministry, while at the same time promoting a framework law to enhance the employment of Greek seafarers with the overall reform of the institutional framework of maritime education. Now, for the amount, Mr Famele, which you asked me, this is EUR 600,000 and it is parts of air. From the first decisions I was asked to take as Minister for Commercial Shipping it was for the air means that were in a tragic state. Therefore, given that the previous Convention had also expired, I had to proceed with a transparent process which facilitates the shipownership of the air means and, of course, to restore any damage. This is what this is all about. This is all about accounting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, we are making the request for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u130	We continue with the list of speakers. We will now give the floor to Mr Ioannis Brutsi from the New Democracy. Following Mr Brutsis, the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, will be given the floor, and we will then proceed with the list of speakers. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, thank you very much. I'm continuing with what Famellos said. Rhetorically, as a Cycladic and as a Member of Parliament who attracts my origin from a multi-Israeli prefecture, the Cycladic prefecture, I would like to tell you, Mr Famele, that if I am not mistaken, I have experienced in my life the entire cycle of the ferry, the cycle of the ferry from the time when the ships had no arrow until today when we can say that we are proud of the Greek coasting. We have the most valuable ships, very good shipping companies, which now serve the world very well, and that is a very important piece that supports Greek tourism. And this is not only something that is with the current government, it was with the previous and the previous ones, we now have a very good airplane that is on Greek coastline, which Greek islanders, tourists, the Greek population can move fearlessly in a very nice environment, in very good boats, airships, which offer them very good services. I think that no one can argue with that. From there on, however, we must recognise, Mr Famele - rhetoric, again, my reference to you - that the coastline must survive, and in previous years we know that it has survived all over the winter period, because things have been very difficult and in summer it was trying to balance the losses with which it was created. So, because it is a private initiative and we must support it, we must show a tolerance, and we must also support the Ministry of Maritime Affairs with specific policies, like myself in the Ministry of Labour, in my previous capacity, and I have supported the concept of shipping with specific policies, such as the naturalities, the monthly wages - as a government I always mean - for workers to stand on their feet and not to collapse the coastline. We had to do that. As far as the bill is concerned, Mr. Amyras is here. I would like to say that Mr Collis, our rapporteur, with a very detailed introduction, described exactly what the government is proposing today through the Ministry of Energy and the Environment. It is a bill that is currently coming to cover, in this critical period, with political specific things that are needed for both PPC and the environment, but also for environmental clean energy, at the same time adopting European practices. I think that no one can question it and nobody can be against it. So, in all what Mr Collis and the government have said, I think we should be positive about something that modernises and helps our country's energy environment. However, my position today, Mr President, comes in conjunction with an amendment which I tabled, which concerns my place of origin, Naxos of the Prefecture of Cyclades, namely Naxos, a particular rock. The ancient Greek was called smyrna. In the local dialect it is called smyrilla or asymrigli. It is a rock that is unique, not only in Greece, but throughout Europe. A rock that does not meet anywhere in Europe, only in Turkey, but much less in quality. This special mineral has kept the country, as I will explain, up in a difficult period of time. Today, by depreciating the price of the smyrida, because there are substitutes for technical, six villages, the Apirinth of Naxos, the Koronos, the Middle, the Komiki, the Danakos, the Scandos and the Keramoti, their inhabitants survive on the most mountainous island of the Cyclades, with two mountains exceeding a thousand meters, the Za and the Kronidas. Among them, these six villages can and survive thanks to the smyrada, which continues to be the product which can and gives security to the permanent inhabitants, so that the villages concerned do not die. I think we're all sensitive to this. All governments over time supported this policy, all governments. I remember from this one the Step by the late Manolis Glezo being placed very positively. And the late Yiannis Paleokrassas and Yiannis Chomatas in their places was always in favour of supporting these six villages through the mineral wealth called smyrida. It may have been devalued, but it is still a specific policy through which Parliament, governments, are called upon to support these six villages of the most mountainous island of the Cyclades island. So this particular suggestion, ladies and gentlemen, to the Ministry of the Environment, which I call on you to support, I think it is an amendment that can broadly support you - is to support this year, as was done last year and two years ago and three years ago by the same procedure, the world in these six mountain villages of Naxos. Just because I said just before that he supported the country, I'm going to make a report that is not known and which is worth listening, Mr. Collia. The Naxos empire, which has been discovered over two and a half thousand years and was a precious mineral for the ancient years before and after the evolution and course of things, was one of the most profitable export products in our country. In 1898, ladies and gentlemen, the smyrada was the product of exchanging with our lenders for the first Memorandum of the country. They took the hammer's revenue to get the first loan as a country. It was the first signature of a memorandum treaty in our homeland through the smyrna. This description is, I think, worthy of all to show respect for these people, the history, the culture that supported the country in 1898 in a difficult period. Today, Minister, Mr Amyras, to you, to the Government, to the Ministry, we ask that you support this amendment. At the moment, we are being heard in the Cyclades by a lot of people who know the particularity of Naxos. But especially from mountainous Naxos a lot of people are watching the debate and it expects you to accept the amendment - Mr Syrmalene, as we have discussed before, I also have your positive opinion - to support this amendment, because you know the issue and it is a common benefit to support these six mountain villages in Naxos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Before giving the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis, I would like to inform you that a request from the Group of the Communist Party of Greece for a roll-call vote on the amendment, number 1103 and a special number 94 of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, was submitted to the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, the political abyss that separates us from Mrs Gennimata's view regarding the salvation of our country is well known. We believe one end, Mrs. Gennamas the other. But at the moment I am here as a Parliamentary representative of PartA25 and I start my speech to say in every direction that we stand wholeheartedly, both Mera25 and I personally, Klons Gregoriadis, at the side of Mrs Gennamas, for the morality she has shown all these years of work with political life, and especially for us, Mera25 - especially this second is the important thing, Mr President - for the fact that it is at the moment the only woman president of Parliament in the Greek Parliament, who is a gift for us, for all of us, because it makes us look less palelithic in the rest of the planet, when he looks at us. I would remind you that we have a ratio of women to men's Members in our Parliament, which could be funny if it were not deeply tragic. I now read, Mr President, from the Rules of Procedure, Rule 87(2), that the Greek people will hear about the mockery that is, what a theatre of poor quality, cheap, what we all play in here, and we are forced to play it with you. Article 87(2): 'Additions or amendments to Members and Ministers shall be tabled at least three days before the start of the debate in plenary, the Discontinuation Department of Parliament's work or the relevant Standing Committee'. Also, under Article 88(3): ‘The amendments must relate to the main object of the draft law or proposed law’. Think of what I have just said, namely the two paragraphs in the Rules of Procedure that I have just read, and do a comparison with what I will show you now. Look. Here we have the speech of Minister Placiotakis in the last committee he spoke - it is five and a half pages - and here we have the amendments tabled today, in fact last night, but it is time that we all had to sleep so that we could be here all day, and it is a hundred and thirty-seven pages. This is five and a half - the Minister responsible for the bill - and that is thirty and a half pages. And these are completely irrelevant to their majority, believe me. Let us now, Mr President, give the intangible people who listen to us out there and vote for a new democracy, examples of the amendments. I will give you an example of two amendments which have been tabled today, Mr President. So here's the example. Just continue "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", Mr. President, her donations to the oligarchy. In May, when this anonymous company, which has been representing the government for nearly two and a half years at the place, passed us, established the provision of a State guarantee of EUR 100 million to whom? To the ‘Energean Oil & Gas S.A.’, Article 40. Today, with the second article of your Amendment 1104/95, Mr Minister, the guarantee is extended for loans from international financial institutions in this company. Let us note, Mr President, and let the Greek people hear it, because that is what we are interested in, that this completely environmentally-friendly company - to understand it as well as the simple world, this company that kills the environment - is, according to the government's thinking, indulging it, why? Because it provides jobs, don't lose jobs. They were caught by the government of Mr. Mitsotakis too much marble. As soon as Mr Tindemans was voted. 4801/21, what did this particular company that you unregulated today subsidize after you gave it millions of euros? You tell her 'I guarantee you also take loans from large credit institutions'. What did he do, Mr President, when Mr 4801 was voted on? She fired her employees to replace them with cheaper contract staff. No one has regretted, Minister, when you say - falsely - that, in our opinion - you are giving so much money to them as parasitic and environmental oligarchs. Now, for your bill and for most of the amendments from your bill you've heard them since this morning. Don't get too tired of me. To go to something more important. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you are aware, if you are still maintaining the human abilities we have when we are all born, it is raining. And do you know what the tragedy is? Unfortunately, it's not just raining here. It rains at the same time in northern Evia, it also rains in Arkalochori, it rains in Achladi, it rains in Elassona. Not to tell you it's raining in the eye. What are all these areas in common that I mentioned? They have the public, Mr Ministers, that you represent the government, although you are not essentially competent ministers - the amendments are of course related, I will say what amendments you have put forward in relation to this -. that all the locations I mentioned have been affected five years ago, other than a month ago, remain undisturbed in any relatively strong rain. And what should they think? You know, we at Mera25 weren't elected here for posts. We despise them deeply. We've always despised them. We had another way for our doorman to know to remember the famous saying of Andreas Papandreou. We had other ways and our doorman knew us. We are in trouble with the political and we are slowly lavishing, while we are in trouble with this symphony and the symphony called the political life of Greece and the political system, just for one reason. For people. In order to defend the people who almost no one in this Parliament - there are exceptions of bright, the Communist Party is one of them - it does not defend. We're here to defend them. These people remain abandoned, Mr President, in their fate. And in Arkalochori what can they hope for, Minister? To hope that after you haven't taken care of the earthquakes of Elassona a year ago... I leave Mr Mitsotakis who went to inaugurate the wonderful school, which if he was not an honorable teacher, would have killed half his students, because he collapsed with the earthquake, and before he inaugurated it, he met with Mr Dalton, this famous horseman - cowboy. I guess it's going to be Averell of the four Daltons, the tallest and most defenseless. He would have accepted to be congratulated with the Prime Minister of “Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.”. So he went there. He made his caption on the channels, which canals with such amendments you are funding under the table with hundreds of millions of euros to play whatever you want. After he did what he did, he's gone and I assure you the earthquakes are still in trailers and container. What can they hope in Arkalochori when you haven't suited those who have a year behind an earthquake? What can they hope for in St. Anna, when you confessed a few days ago that you brought an amendment to exclude from HNVIA the people of Matius, why have you not managed two governments yet and five years almost to assess the damage suffered by the fire? Hope what? They don't hope anything. They hope that there may be some among us who have climbed up here for the people and not the damn posts that crush humanity and humanity all over. Now, with regard to the amendments I mentioned a second, Minister, an example is the amendment that has come to your bill, which is the famous amendment again, allegedly because of urgency, for direct delegation. Who else will it be to? You don't say it yet, but it will be. I sign it for you to be written in the Minutes. It will be in 'TERNA'. Do you know how I know it'll be at "TERNA"? Because "TERNA" is the only player. There's no one else. TERNA does everything in the country. Do you know what the scandal is? A Vice-Chairman of the "TERNA" board may be the father-in-law of the Minister, Mr Gerapititi. That's what we have to talk about at some point with their name, the Greek people know. Because whatever stone you raise in this damn country, underneath it will write "TERNA" for some specific reason. So this amendment that came today, within 30 pages, is an amendment that again by direct delegation will give the flooding works, as fifteen days ago or a month ago by direct assignment you gave, oh of the miracle, to whom do you say, dear ladies and gentlemen? In ‘TERNA’. In this same "TERNA". And what is the result you have given by direct delegation of the millions to Mrs. "TERNA" - seven and a half, if I'm not cheated - fifteen, twenty days ago? That people drowned. This is the result of the "TERNA", of the relatives, of the relatives, and I don't know what else. These are the results. That's your way. Mr President, as you know, and as the ministers and Members of Parliament know, the country is in the middle of a war. For good luck we still don't fight the Turks, we don't even know if we'll ever fight and we're all disobedient, because we love the Turkish people deeply, who's oppressed by a very tough dictatorship. For all these other reasons, because we are of course peaceful, because in our animal condition it is to love peace, we are against all kinds of war. So, we're at home the most? What's there. Where is what? A chance to fight the Turks sometime. We're despising it. But what has been happening for a year and a half is that we are fighting in a health pandemic, ladies and gentlemen. In this pandemic we have managed to overcome the fifteen thousand dead, which is the second worst in the whole of the European Union, in relation to our population. At this juncture, then, your government bought you ten days and ten billion days ago, which was borrowed by the European Central Bank, three freshmen, another ten Raphala, to reach twenty-four. I'll read it to you so I won't make any mistakes. You know what you could do instead of taking three freshmen and ten more Ruffalo, to reach twenty-four and order, I don't know how many more? I can assure you, in passing, that I remind you of what the Turks have done, as soon as you have done that. They ordered forty F-16 of the last type in the United States of America and started - they had already started, to be honest - building an airplane, however. This airship wasn't ordered by the Turks. They're smarter than us. They build it in their shipyards. This is also something you need to take into account. Do you know why I'm telling you all this? You'll tell me, "Well, now you remember, Gregory, now you remembered Mera25, tell us about the freshmen? We talked about these last week." I am telling you, because each one of these frigates is doing 1 billion euros, Mr President. Do you know what that means? It means that if we took two freshmen instead of three - me and Mera25 - we believe we should not take one - we could, Mr President, hire permanent doctors to the U.S. all the thousands they need for the next two centuries! Centuries. Did you hear that? Understood? Is there anything else I can tell you? If we take all the expenditure, the EUR 10 billion we spend, as we were commanded by the Planet commander of America and Mr McCrone and we are convinced that, as we do twelve years now, we have done so, if, then, 10 billion of these were spent for a better purpose, do you know what would come to the country? It would come about, for example, that all the natural disasters that have occurred over the last decade could be restored and all affected citizens could also be restored to the values that have been lost. However, you do not care to restore anything like this. That's why you're acting like you are. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I continue, Mr President, by saying this: you can pass, ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber, whichever bill you want with a hundred and fifty-eight, fifty-seven votes. We'll see what other leaks you'll have and what other fastoids you hide in the classes, which will at some point expose you so much, that you'll be forced to erase them. Anyway, you might get through whatever you want. Why, Mr President, is all this going on? Thanks to the robbery, unconstitutional, supremely analogous - which is not only proportional - which gives you fifty, eighty MPs - I do not remember how many he gave you - free and verde. You can pass any bill you want with these robbery and stolen majorities from the Greek people. You can't go through anything to the Greek people themselves! Eleven years of memorial service, Mr President, we have lost forty thousand teachers. They were retired and no one was hired. And Mrs Kerameau triumphants today, because she'll be hired for ten and a half thousand. I mean, we're gonna get there and have just lost thirty thousand. So I say on this issue, for the evaluation - we know the so-called exemplary assessment - this is the following. I will not get too far, Mr President. I'll be done in two or three minutes. Of the evil you say, ladies and gentlemen, that this assessment concerns teachers. Ash in the eyes of the world you throw. You say they're too lazy and don't like them, avoid being evaluated, and that's why they're on the streets. You're lying twice because I didn't get out on the streets. On the streets, they came out because they're fighting for students and their schools. You know very well that the tampering was the buildings, the structures and not the evaluation of them. Why is it going to happen? The evaluation, you know better than me, concerns school units that you leave years of funding - all governments - so that you have after the opportunity to easily close them, to naturally go to your schoolgirls and university friends, parasitic oligarchs your victims. Cynamic settlements with lies and slanders are not worthy for any Minister of Education and no government at all. In passing, Mr President, a few minutes ago I saw online in New Philadelphia leaving primary school students from container - yes, you heard it, container - trying to save them. Water had a height of height. I saw it with my own eyes. I present it to the House, to the Plenary Assembly of the Greeks. So people have set up beams, maids, scaffolding from school, 20 meters to get the children out, doing various stunts, not to fall into the water, which has a measure of depth. That's what's going on in New Philadelphia right now. Of course, I cannot leave this fact alone and do not comment on the resignation of the Austrian Chancellor. And you know, I'm already laughing. Why am I laughing? Why did we realize with surprise and horror these days? We realised that what, in a favoured elementary - it is not a seriously favoured country or a democratic country - Austria - the country of the European Union, what brings penalties and eventually leads a whole Chancellor to resignation, in Greece - I am sorry, I am ashamed to be up here - is just normality. Regularity is the more than 100 million in total that you've given to the Pecha list. You have given 40 million, hand in hand, cash, and the rest are facilities, tax reliefs of the press: "You will not pay this because you have lost, you are poor again and you only got one two thousand returnee you will pay and I will drink your blood to get it back, but you who took 100 million is not running and nothing, don't give it to you." So we have arrived, Mr President, at this very dead end. And I really don't know what you're going to do about it. But that's exactly who you are. In Austria he resigned Chancellor for what "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." has it bread, to finance the means. Do you know how the truth proves to be true? It turns out because nothing I will say now - five things I said - will not be published anywhere, there will be no channels, no sites with great traffic, because all that you have bought and financed. And we know that, because apart from what I am saying, Mr President, the same goes for what Mr Varoufakis says. Say I'm nothing, I'm the last wheel of the car. But Mr Varoufakis is a constitutional chairman of a parliamentary group. Doesn't it surprise you that two and a half years have never seen Mr. Varoufakis anywhere in one of these damn channels? I'm going to close up, so we can make a little joke, Mr. President. I read from the Journal of the Official Journal of the European Communities 4574/B/2-10-2021. It's from the other day. It is a question of regulating the use of predatory priests. People listen to it. The hunter's reproach doesn't say it's over. The Middle Ages holds well. We're killing animals for pleasure. Congratulations! Good for us! We are not populists. We know how many hunters are. We know they'll hate us. We want them to hate us. We wish anyone who chases animals to hate us and not to vote for us forever. But you have a sense of humor, because by a joint ministerial decision you publish in the Government Leaflet the following amazing. This fact will remain as an unscrupulous memory. "Content of practice and process of qualification of trainees: In the practice of candidate predators of predators..." for the hierarchy you're chasing hawks - I say it laughing not to cry - "... the following is necessarily included." Mr. President, would you like to hear the third? The third, Mr President, is development for trainees of the techniques and practices applied. I repeat, the techniques and practices applied - I read from the Goal of the Official Journal of the Government - depending on the operator level for which they are assessed. It is obvious that this is a typographic error, which is obviously that in a favoured government it would never have been enough to publish the typographic error in the Official Journal of the Government. However, I will end by joking, Mr President, that if we knew that you would set up such nice universities for pre-eminence, we would not be willing to live from the flaw of the Greek people who had elected us MPs and get from the lack of money to sustain ourselves. We would study at the fine schools you set up prefectures and live wonderfully. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. Mrs. Kallipe Vetta has the floor from SYRIZA. After Mrs. Vetta is Mrs. Asmakopoulou, Mr. Maravegias and Mrs. Christidou. These colleagues will complete the course of speeches with a natural presence. There will be three colleagues left through Webex. Of course, they are also going to speak three parliamentary representatives, who have no idea whether or not to intervene. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's incorporation of the European directive is a good opportunity, on the one hand, to highlight aspects of government policy in the field of energy and, on the other, to record the data in our country on the armouring of citizens and businesses against the wave of precision and the defence of the public sector. In advance, I would like to say that today's bill shows the dimension between propaganda and reality. On the one hand, you create a green profile with a fascinating interest in transition to more efficient and less polluting forms of energy, but on the other hand, we actually have the exact opposite. We have long delays in implementing green policies, private groups premium, energy poverty, accuracy and privatisation of public development pillars. Let me start with some parts of the bill first. The European directive, as demonstrated by the debate, has been ready for a vote already since the end of 2019. It is not strange or unusual, of course, for you too much delay. The same is true of the "ELECTRA" programme for the energy upgrading of public buildings that you received ready from the government of SYRIZA, which has been frozen for two years. However, even today's step is now incomplete and largely outdated as the debate on a more ambitious review of climate targets in Europe has already begun. You are also talking about strengthening competition in the energy market, yet another fine plea without content. For about a year and a half you have watched inactive and inappropriate prices in the wholesale electricity market be very low, but the reductions in households and businesses do not go hand in hand, thus favouring speculation. Just two, three months ago with a cowardly and incomplete bill you outlined - so we can only say it - a structure and a few responsibilities to punish the unthinkable increases that will shrink the incomes of citizens. No interest in the economy and society, addressing the accuracy and strengthening of public development pillars that can play a key role in the energy market. We've seen it in PPC since the beginning of your term of office. Your concern was to increase the wages on Golden Boys, to squeeze management positions, to divest natural gas networks and TEDO, to increase the electricity price by 15% to 20% while the final blow was given by the imminent privatisation and the reduction of public equity participation. Your curiosity and idealism appear at every point of your policy. As soon as the day before yesterday, a bill regulating - let us say - the issue of deprivation was raised. Let us leave for now the criticism that can be made of the multi-fashioned, multi-fashioned and bureaucratic structures provided for in the bill and the increased cost of filling the positions to be taken. Let us leave the decisions on the defoliation zones and their performance in the lignite areas, as well as on land restoration. We'll talk about it when this bill comes to Parliament. That is all I can say: the fact that two years after the Prime Minister's announcement of shutdown of the existing lignite plants by 2023 does not yet have a monitoring structure, study, supervision, planning and compliance with the conditions. Is this all the culprit? Is a government organised to build a structure about in the early 2022s to deal with the consequences of the closure of lignite plants in 2023? What can we say? Let our citizens and fellow citizens draw their conclusions. I close my circle of arguments for the poverty of your politicians by referenceing the energy communities. SYRIZA with Law 4513/2018 on energy communities strengthened the arsenal for tackling energy poverty and climate change by promoting sustainability and self-sufficiency both at production level and for the end user. Especially through the development of power plants by local communities and greater involvement of RES in the energy balance, we have increased the role of local government in transition to climate neutrality in terms of democracy and justice. Today, with the unregulated development of RES, the stumbling blocks in energy communities, discrimination against them and foreign pricing policy, the situation has been completely reversed. The most characteristic of all is the criminal error of Law 4579/2020 that imposed the inclusion of all energy communities in competitive procedures with suffocating deadlines, while at the same time no clear answers and solutions are given to permanent requests from industry representatives even to our own questions. SYRIZA, on the other hand, has committed programmeally that its objective is to produce only 50% of energy from energy communities, households and farmers. It happens in too many countries of Europe. The question is that there should be a political will and a priority for our country too. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by saying the following: in the last few days a movement against privatization of PPC has been developing throughout the country with events, gatherings, rallys, strikes. Yesterday, such a gathering was organized in Keratsini on the occasion of the anniversary of the Battle of Electricity, where society opposed your methods and the elimination of sovereign rights in the energy pillar. You will soon realize that its disapproval will become a political sign and will be channelled to the forces that support the redistributive and developmental role of the public, the strengthening of effective green measures, a fair and sustainable transition to a cleaner future, which includes everyone and everyone. I think the countdown has already begun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u136	We thank Mrs. Vetta. Mrs Asmakopoulou Sophia has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you say that the purpose of this bill is to strengthen energy efficiency and energy savings, in particular through intervention programmes on buildings or even greater penetration of renewable energy sources and so on. Do you think that this purpose is actually being fulfilled? Should we now talk about ensuring our country's energy self-sufficiency? As far as its energy dependency is concerned, Greece's position is quite precarious as it can be seen from the publications that we will produce, since this is one of the most energy dependent countries in the European Union, to an extent exceeding 74%, and it is growing in the eighth place of the most dependent countries in the European Union. There are, you say, rules on the removal of barriers to the energy market. You don't think such a lift poses great risks? An offshore impression is that the relevant conditions and other conditions for the implementation of energy efficiency contracts, in particular the procedures for the award of service contracts, will be laid down by common decision of the Ministers for Development and the Environment and Energy. Is it possible for public contracts to depend on the attitudes of the ministers concerned? Below, in terms of invoicing and consumption information it is stated that the costs of measuring, allocating and accounting the actual individual consumption in buildings and resulting from the delegation of this obligation to a third party, such as a service provider or a local energy supplier, may be transferred to final consumers on condition that it is reasonable. Moved to the final consumers? Of course we are opposed to any further burden on consumers. What it has to do with sanctions is to point out that it is possible by common decision of the Ministers for Economic Affairs, the Environment and Energy and the commander of the AACC to adjust the lower and upper limit of the financial fines and to specify any details necessary for their recovery. From where and until where is such overpower granted to the Ministers for Economic and Energy and the Commander of the ADP? On what grounds and on what grounds? The same questions arise below where measures are adopted to promote efficiency in heating and cooling for the use at a central or regional level of efficient heating and cooling systems where high-efficiency cogeneration is used and combined with the development of local or regional heat markets, established by decisions of the Minister for the Environment and Energy and the relevant ministers or regional authorities as appropriate. On what basis do you share your powers? Instead of sharing them in such a way that you see the real problems, such as what percentage of Greeks is unable to pay the electricity bills and have elementary heating? You have to consider what we've been saying for two years now. The President of the Greek Solution Kyriakos Velopoulos says so against him in his speeches that he is hunger. You're talking about growth within 2022 to 8%. How exactly are we going to see her? How many times have we told you about the need to develop the primary sector and the food industry? It is no long time to see the Germans monopolizing the retail food market. How much longer do you want to see Greek households suffering from problems even with the adequacy of their food? Increases and appreciations are not complete, in fuels, gas, food, transport everywhere. And we warned you. You give the Greeks the charismatic shot. Make it one mistake after another: Empty policy with waste and loan. We're telling you about the production of wealth in our place. You exaggerate citizens and tax fuel. We have the fourth highest tax on fuel and you are selling. Train example is the port of Piraeus. You're telling us that you increased the subsidy for the heating allowance, but how much did the oil increase? Finally stop mocking Greek families. You closed our shipyards. You say that tourism is Greece's heavy industry. What position is the accession of tourists to our country compared with other European Union countries? With regard to the qualifications and certification systems referred to in a decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy may be amended, inter alia, to the registration of energy auditors. You don't want to say the photographic skills here, and you skipped it. You are, of course, abolishing the provision which stated that the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is making certification regimes public enough so that the final consumers are aware of their existence. Don't let any transparency happen, immediately eliminate it. With regard to the conduct of competitive energy efficiency improvements, the competitive tender procedure is published each time by a decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy and the terms of the notice are unilaterally defined as the conditions of the competitive process, the criteria for participation and evaluation, the eligible measures to improve energy efficiency and so on. Obviously, he finds us opposing. Programmes concerning interventions in the building sector are being called for to improve the energy performance of buildings, including housing buildings, taking into account the best energy efficiency levels, of course again by a joint decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy and the relevant Ministers as appropriate. Another photographic device that leaves a lot of room for manoeuvre and also creates many questions. Finally, we must mention at every opportunity the need to provide incentives to the six hundred thousand Greeks who left our country in the previous years of the memoranda in order to return home. For us, the Greek Solution, energy saving is the basis of energy independence, because energy independence means national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u138	We will now give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Famello. Then there will be Mr. Maraveyas, Mrs. Christidou and Mr. Armalene. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, allow me on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to begin by tabling the sincere, humane, self-evidently passing on to Mrs Gennamas. We want to win this battle, too. We want him to be here again with us. We're right next to her, and we think she'll come back fast and strong and irony. At the same time, within a difficult day I think we all stand together with all the citizens of the country who, unfortunately, are affected by a great bad weather. And overall, the political world is at the disposal of the citizens to support social and economic functions, and I think that is self-evident. We cannot, however, say that today our country is in a security framework. Her citizens don't live safely. Today's debate finds the country in a generalised climate of insecurity. I am not just talking about energy or the environment that is crucial to development social function. However, the Greek society lives in a domino of disquiet and uncertainty affecting its core. And it is clear that the Mitsotakis Government is responsible for this general insecurity. We are in a country in the cyclone of the health crisis, with very high numbers of cases and victims, with low vaccination, which highlights the mistakes of government policy. Thessaloniki, my area, my place, is an example to avoid, unfortunately, and that shows, if you like, the problem with the government. The long delay in the vaccination problem of Thessaloniki and the sanitary structures proves you've been doing something wrong for a long time. However, we have mergers in schools, in the school departments, crowds in universities, tails in clubs and feedingstuffs, completeness in intensive care units, while the National Health System only becomes monothematic, critical surgery is suspended and general morbidity is not served, while soldiers, sanitaries, are sent unarmed to the front because the viral load is multiplying, not to mention the alalum that exists on the market with professionals. In Thessaloniki one weekend they closed down and worked without music, and the other weekend they had liberated hours and honestly and the market doesn't know how to manage this inconsistency, this salt, this one was opened - close. Instead of serving the health system, in Thessaloniki we have intensive treatment facilities, beds that have no doctors and are closed by sponsorships, and that is not what the government is answering. It remains in individual responsibility, in a divisive logic, and it itself assumes with the ineffectiveness of the late advertising programme what should characterize us as universal, voluntary vaccination. However, since August our country has been in the last victims' seats, unfortunately, at the worst and far behind Europe's average. We have too many victims a week and the government pretends that things are going well, but on the other hand - see - the head of the Ministry of Health is now outside these posts, and the Minister and the Deputy Minister. The President of the EGE, the leadership of civil protection, who had undertaken the coordination of the battle of pandemic, has all been released. So who else is to blame but Mr Mitsotakis who is responsible, if you like, for this government, because this society obviously cannot. At the same time, we have serious natural disaster issues. The citizens were left unprotected in the fires, because first of all the government canceled the forest fire prevention policy, stopped five thousand workers' forest protection programme to understand where we arrived, while it had an incredible alalum and no fire-fighting - the clear placement of the district manager in Greece I think it does not want anything more - but also communication flares for the Ministry of the Environment which has been missing from the fire prevention process, such as, for example, the declaration of reservoirs within one month - has been made? It didn't happen. In Gerenia, you spent four and a half months, that the services should be transferred to the Ministry of Forest Environment. It would be quick again. Still a project team builds two months after the announcements. I would also like to say the other thing that some donors were cut off, some at the Ministry, but there was no quick response. What for? It is simply because it was such an extent of fire because of the political responsibility of the Mitsotakis Government, which is really insurmountable at the moment to be able to deal with these issues and, of course, even the protection and information of the citizens cannot be managed. Let us say simple questions: Where are the flood risk management plans that we have handed you out, prepared and validated, and have you not started the review? Where are the adaptation plans for the climate crisis that we have legislated, we have started in the regions, but have not entered into Greece's life? Where is the climate law promised by the Prime Minister to finish up to the CFP? All you have achieved is to break down climate policies by sharing policies of the Ministry of the Environment with the new Ministry, which still has no potential executives and staff. And we see it with today's legislature. Turn off - write is the laws brought by the Ministry of the Environment, while on the market we have precision, lack of control, low purchasing power because you keep humiliated and the minimum wage, do not interfere with excise duty. In practice, there is a lack of public policies and an increase in debt and we also see a Minister of Finance, who looks at them all, because in theory it does everything perfectly, but it mortgages the course of the Greek economy. Even the Recovery Fund has been able to mortgage itself, excluding society and small and medium-sized enterprises from it, making it transparent because there is a party for peers and for the Recovery Fund and with very long delays that are now worrying, even in the 2021 cash-flows and the planned cash-flows. And, of course, an example is the 'EXECONOMIC' programme which concerns us. It could have given an immediate three-billion notice to help both the technical market and the citizens and to be compatible with the Energy Efficiency title of the bill, but you haven't even been able to activate it. And within all of this, unfortunately, there is also a framework for the degradation of democratic functions, the opacity of commissions invoked by pandemic or civil protection, a rampant literally throughout Greece, with violation of the ASP, competitions, transparency, even the functioning of elected institutions of self-government, of course, and the settlement of "blue" children with gold wages and PPC, for example, as well as to DEDDIE, but an archeism in youth, authoritarianism in education, closure of sections of universities with the minimum import base. And many of these closed sections are environmentally, unfortunately. And, at the same time, an evaluation of Ms. Kerameos' classmates to make two speed schools, but to satisfy private colleges on the other hand. Even in the House we have operating limitations that are not reasonable on the basis of what is happening in the other social functions. And above all we have a clear complication of Maximus with the country's economic power and the media. That is why a committee of inquiry is required to clarify what is going on with the funding of the polling companies, with the relationships that are still revealed for your ministers, because nothing will be kept hidden. Because during SYRIZA for the first time, the canalarchs were forced to pay and get licensed, even to pay fees that they did not pay. And now, in addition to the Pecha list, you're also enjoying financial obligations. And all this is done in a collapse of energy and environmental policies. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The whole society today pays the cost of the Mitsotakis Government. Everybody. Both entrepreneurs and industry and farmers and merchants, and all citizens. In any case, increases will be the basic policy tool of the New Democracy from day one. In other words, he said: "To save PPC, I will make increases". That's how this domino started, and it hasn't stopped. But what happened then? Mr. Hatzidakis was very happy to say to PPC. These increases have deprived consumers of the benefits created by the SYRIZA Government by reducing VAT, they have led to a new deficit in the RES account, which is why they have even entered oil for the RES. But the parallel is that you supplied your choice of high prices on the market. That's how everybody sold expensive 'cause PPC was selling too. However, the citizen did not see any gain from competition and this has been signed by Mrs Mitsotakis. And we need to make it clear that we have won through memoranda to keep, firstly, zero increases and reduce the cost by 12%. This is the other strategy we have had. We said: public control of energy companies and no increase for the citizen. You say: Selling out energy companies and increases for the citizen. And here it is clear who cares about the businessman and the citizen. However, this growth strategy did not remain in 1919. In '20 we had a lot of misfortune involving PPC. We had a problem of hundreds of millions of euros in the balancing market. Consumers now see it all in their accounts and even in increases equal to electricity costs. However, complaints about market manipulation and oligopolysm submitted by parliamentarians can no longer leave the government unreasonable, but also the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, because they are not all international phenomena. It is a Greek originality, it is a la Mitsotakis. This recipe, oligopoly and price manipulation. Obviously there is a question in Europe. Europe is retarded to deal with the issue. It is not just geopolitical and supply contracts, it is not just infrastructure. There is a question of social, if you like, politics, and it seems that Europe is betraying the slogan 'no one can stay behind'. But the bankruptcy of many companies, for example in Great Britain, is beating the bell on the neoliberal model. You sell the companies and those sold to private individuals go bankrupt, while those who have remained in municipal or state control do not go bankrupt, even in metropolitan capitalism. It is clear, therefore, that this transition - that is what today's experience says - cannot be done only by the market. It wants a strong state, it wants a plan, it wants tools, and in this case Europe comes and says with the toolbox: flexibility, rhetoric, specific taxation issues. Let's see what the government has done with all this. We proposed to her - and now the toolbox says so - to take action on vulnerable households for a year and a half. Three amendments tabled by SYRIZA. Did she take them into account? We proposed that her take action on the rheumatisms again to vulnerable households affected by pandemic and entrepreneurship for a year and a half. We also tabled an amendment. Did she take them into account? Oh, no. Hatzidakis then rejected them at the Ministry of the Environment. We have recently proposed a reduction to the minimum of excise duty, as the toolbox is now proposing. Did the government take them into account? Oh, no. Otherwise it says 'we follow the toolbox'. And how does that happen? After all these measures proposed by the toolbox have been proposed and you do not implement them. On the contrary, what you have declared has not yet been implemented. At the same time, however, what seems to be on the market? From yesterday's energy forum, which has not been disproved by the government, we see communications - I read it from the inside - 'heavenly downwards profits in a two-month period of 39% of the retail price on the Greek market by suppliers for August and September 2021', if I am not mistaken. In other words, now that the market is affected, they are announced by a professor responsible for energy planning, increases in skyfalls of 33% in retail. Let us see a little: Leave the market on the one hand, unregulated, unregulated, unregulated, unregulated, today with these crazy bills coming up and you have implemented some of the Prime Minister's commitments to the report? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. What did the Prime Minister say? He said 80% reduction in increases to all consumers. Not all consumers are inside. Neither farmers are the craftsmen nor the merchants nor the industry. Let's take a look at this: is it for all consumers to support 80% of the increase? May I read to you today's press release by Mr Mitsotakis with the Vice-President of the European Union, Mr Symphony? It says: 'The Commission's measures are moving towards existing legislative initiatives'. But why are you lying to the prime minister? Has he legislated on any initiative that has reached the accounts? You have made a decision to make a ministerial decision - we voted here last week - which you have not yet done. So the measures in the report one month and one week later have not yet been implemented in a ministerial decision. So either the Prime Minister is lying or you're lying to him. Secondly, there is - it says - a special programme for vulnerable social groups. Where is he and we didn't see it? When did you legislate about vulnerable social groups in the current accounts now affected by the toolbox, we told you and you rejected it? Thirdly, it says that they will follow - and obviously it says 'we will also implement' - the possibility of paying off the obligations of our consumers, our fellow citizens from the sharp increase in heating costs within a reasonable period of time. Is that what he said in the report that he's just going to make payments to debts from the electricity bills? Didn't he say he'd cover 80% of the increase? Mr Mitsotakis, President-in-Office of the Council. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. But has he, in fact, done something? Not because this EUR 9 or 18, when they finally legislate, whenever the ministers decide, does not cover 80% of the increases. Of course the bills already come and have not accepted our proposal on excise duty, while last Friday they made the following assumption: "We will use PPC and PPC to increase." Yeah, while they're still in public control, they're selling it. Imagine the inconceivable. They use public control bodies - which are the success of the SYRIZA Government that they have remained in public control - to help consumers, but they sell them at the same time, so that there is no aid tool for consumers. At the same time, you are bringing an amendment to find resources for this grant from rights - that is what the toolbox says - but you are abolishing the security of rights, that is, the right to the special account of the RES, for the lignite regions. These are now being abolished. Even the market said you'd probably go to a new bankruptcy, however, in a new question of viability, and we said so, Mr. Skreka. You've known that since yesterday. Debt of the special account of the RES, signature of a New Democracy. 1920 debt of the RES account, signature of a New Democracy. Do not have a new bankruptcy in 2021, because SYRIZA managed in the memoranda not to raise the electricity nor a single euro and positively to the account of renewable energy sources. In fact, this concern comes to our attention because Mr Stagiras has made it clear that by his own measures for the heating allowance, which is only 1/3 of the 400 million that Mr Screkas said, he is now questioning the government's announcements of solidarity, the end of the trade and the insurance contributions. We don't expect any of this either. On the other hand, the New Democracy is selling off the energy agencies, DEPA, natural gas to an owner. The Greek State cannot have it, but it will have a company that the Italian State participates. The distribution network, the TEN, 49% in a fund which, as it is leaking - and we expect the contract to come to Parliament - will have established revenues of 85 million rain - snow. So it's not an investment tool. It'll take money rain- snow, even if it gets in. So, again losers will be consumers. And of course the last week we have is that you are about to give PPC the property of the Greek people to individuals. How? In a profitable business, her owner raises her share capital, but she doesn't take part in it and gives it away. This does not exist in entrepreneurship, much more in the energy networks. This process must be stopped immediately, because you have serious strategic problems. First problem: Gas dependency on false liberation. You closed the lignite plants to make private gas units, not to make renewable energy sources. Yes, but now that the gas is too expensive who binds the country to imported fuel at a very precise energy price, while you have dynamised the area of renewables? And how did you strengthen him? Quite simply because you 'frozen' the spatial plan, 'frozen' the plan for the 'NATURA' regions, 'frozen' the energy communities and Greece at the moment with recognition even by the president of RAE because of Mr.4685 of Mr. Hadjidakis, the anti-environmental law, has serious contradictions because they block the projects and require the spatial framework. Who stopped it? Mr. Mitsotakis. Through Mr. Hatzidakis, by Mr. Skreka? It doesn't matter. However, the New Democracy has stopped everything that was under way. In the other institutional framework for storage there is no institutional framework for marine wind turbines, but marine spatial planning, which is a prerequisite for marine wind farms, also does not exist. All of this is signed by a New Democracy. What's he doing with today's bill? Firstly, outdated energy efficiency regulations and while we have already taken a 'yellow card' of delay in the European Union. Secondly, the "EXOCONOMO" has been frozen in public buildings, it changes the "EXOCONOMO" for private and this is being delayed and the program that you implemented left many outside. The whole market protested. Why? Because you have put high budgets for renovation, as Mr Hatzidakis has chosen. Thirdly, arrangements for the Antitrust decision, a decision which has been afflicting us for 15 or twenty years in Greece, but which PPC itself has not respected because it has been overtaken and, above all, does not fuel the Greek energy market, so it creates a problem in the energy balance. Fourthly, a new postponement of the forest maps without implementing your commitments, leaving the citizens unjustified and obviously without saying the simple thing, namely that they must not object because you will change the maps again and why you are still correcting them. Fifth, corrections after three months in your recycling law and even “photographics”, while all you have to show is a reduction in recycling and a scandal of tens of millions of euros in Greek recycling. Sixthly, the deterioration of environmental control, and even you have finally recognised it with your amendments and with your legislative proposals, but there is a very serious matter of delaying environmental control and the allocation of responsibilities and sanctions, and you are bringing in mistaken provisions to withdraw control. And now leave behind a bucket of problems, after so many amendments and legislation you brought last night. And a little bit of this bucket you've done in all policy fields. Leave a bucket and Greece weaker everywhere. You leave insecurity to citizens, insecurity in the economy, reduction in the property and functions of the state, retreats even in our geopolitical interests. Why, for example, did the EOZ stay outside in the recent Greek-French agreement? No one has yet received an answer from the government. And most of all, what you're leaving is ruffles and corruption. Clearly, the link between Maximus and economic power and the media. And these will be revealed here. Classic right! Just a lot older than the old versions of the Right! For SYRIZA it is clear that the green transition is unnegotiable. But this green transition must take place for society and for society. It's not a private case, but a collective case, a state case. And above all, it is not just a market case, because the market will lead to distortions, oligopoly, price manipulation, and poverty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Femmelle, you need to finish. You've had enough time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u141	I'm done, Mr. President. So since this process concerns society as a whole, it must ensure affordable energy prices for both households and businesses, transparent rules and a framework of law with renewable energy sources, with a circular economy, with energy savings, but also with land registers, forest maps and delimitation of the Aegean. Because now we see that all these items are taken by Mr. Georgiadis and that you no longer have them. You have neither "NATURA" nor the cavalry, and we see that liberation is also called for by yourself as a management tool. And all this obviously must not be done by leaving the opportunity of the Recovery Fund to be lost. Unfortunately, all this does not seem to ever arise from a government of Mr Mitsotakis and the right. For all this, it takes another progressive governance and an alliance of progressive and democratic forces, which is what the place needs, because society has understood how insecure it is with you. Confidentiality has been degraded to Mr Mitsotakis, while these percentages in society are very minority, which will also be expressed in social and political terms. SYRIZA is ready to support these alliances. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Femello. The Foreign Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Amyras, has asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like you to allow me to send my best wishes to Fofi Genuines for rapid recovery. She's a fighter and a strong personality. We will therefore have very quickly, I imagine, the pleasure of discussing this Chamber, the plenary session. Before I move on to the bill, I think it is good to give some answers to what has just been heard. Let me begin with the flood risk management plans, the fourteen plans that need to be revised. So let's see where we are. The contractors have gone out for the four of them, that is, we are in signing the contracts, and for the remaining heavy by the end of the year they will have been compromised and we will have gone ahead with them. With regard to regional plans to deal with the climate crisis now, as the Ministry of the Environment, we have already consulted and approved the environmental studies for the seven of the thirteen regional plans. For the rest, we expect missing data from the regions. We are pushing them, encouraging them and urging them to move faster. The truth is that some of the regions have not become accustomed to such rapid cooperation, and they also seemed somewhat distant, I would say, to the climate crisis plan at regional level. Nevertheless, we are helping them and helping them to finish them. And now we're going to PPC issues. He said many times that the dear Mr Famelos, the Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, is rather going to sell PPC. I do not want to be boring and repetitive about what I have said in committee. But come and see three elements to draw our conclusions. How was PPC’s financial situation on SYRIZA in 2017, 2018 and 2019? What was the company's net position? It was under 300 million euros. What is the net position today, PPC's capital value? It's 2.3 billion euros. What's going on? What took place, therefore, is good management, management and the way we approached the issues of public wealth, namely PPC. So, from where in 2018 PPC had 900 million losses and 1.6 billion euros in 2019 with a clear responsibility for the governance of SYRIZA, we have now come to talk about a company of genuine public interest that fulfils its role. Also, as I said in committee, in the 2018 budget the government of SYRIZA had enrolled as a revenue expectation of EUR 100 million from the sale of PPC. What was that? Was it the magical picture? Also, I rescind the actual creepy findings of PPC's sworn auditor in April 2009, who said - in quotes -: "This is the worst and worst deterioration of the company's liquidity and financial position in its history". That's what the independent vowed auditor said in April 2019! However, thanks to the genuinely persistent efforts of the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and of course Kostis Hadjidakis and Kostas Skrekas, we have the opportunity today to talk about the concentration of funds from the PPC market, which will also be able to buy in the Balkans small green companies, production units of green energy in the Balkans, and to invest in renewable energy, so as to achieve the least dependence of the company itself and with it and with the country on imports, but also to reduce production costs. So the bankrupt company on SYRIZA, a company that was really ready to get into the absolute depreciation, of course charging the wallet of all Greek taxpayers, we have now come to talk about a company that makes proud above all the country. And I now come to the issues of the environmental audit of this draft law. No one would expect SYRIZA to agree and vote for this environmental reform. Didn't he have the courage here to vote for the historical level of the Greek defensive agreement, would he back off this environmental reform? No, of course not. But that is why SYRIZA is isolated from citizens and society. We, however, are determined to make reforms, as we know what the limits are, both of governance and of the opposition are. It is simple logic, logic and reality, which are inconsistent. You, therefore, have several SYRIZA Members denounced the modernisation of the environmental audit framework. What did you do in four and a half years? Also, what have you done in the four and a half years that you have ruled in relation to the cost of energy? All these amendments that you are now telling us after all and which you have brought about excise duty on fuel or any other energy issue, why have you not done so when you have been able to do so, as you have been a government in this country for four and a half years? Because you probably didn't make it again. You can't always make it! But we're on time. We are running because we know the needs of the Greek citizens, but also the needs of society and the economy, since we are committed to wanting to move this country forward much higher than where we found it. So let us see what will apply to environmental audits after the adoption of this draft law. First of all, we have to agree on some common findings. Should environmental audits be carried out, and should many and intensified in all activities or in those activities which have the stimulus to air, land and water burdens? Of course you do. Unfortunately, however, it was not enough and environmental inspectors are not enough now. How many checks were made every year? Sixty with seventy regular checks and so many emergency checks. In the best version, that is to say, we had two hundred checks throughout Greece of businesses, of anthropogenic activities, of industries, etc., which are hundreds, which are thousands of these activities. And we've all had these checks. So, do we want to keep this environmental audit framework? Of course not. What do we do now? We therefore want to increase controls with criteria, in strict ways, and that is why we are introducing in the sphere of control and the private environmental inspectors, certified, registered in a register, private inspectors under strict supervision. We must also remember something that I mentioned during the debate on the draft law in committee. In the past, some responded - and indeed very strongly - to the institutionalisation of checks and certificates for homes by private engineers. They were shouting that the control of the house, the building, shouldn't have gone to a private person. They wanted the towns, where over the past few years there have been too many grays - not to say "blacks" - acts. So we are sure that with the public-private partnership in environmental control we will have many, fast and positive results. The government wants to ensure that the polluting industries, for example, are complied with with by checks which are carried out in a uniform manner and which will set deadlines. So when an inspector goes and finds a breach of an industry, for example, after a temporary autopsy report has been drawn up which should be drawn up within a month, the person in charge will be given a two-week period to present his views. To date, there has been no deadline. It could all be in six months, one year, one and a half, two years or never. There were no deadlines for monitoring. The final autopsy report should be delivered within six months for large industrial installations and within four months for other activities. I would remind you that to date there has been no time limit. It was all in the air. We also say that if the person controlled after finding out his environmental illegality takes over and of course corrects the problem within a specific deadline, if for the first time the infringement is established, he will not have to pay the fine. We are concerned that there are environmental issues to be solved by speeding up the industry or business which has fallen into this environmental error, and not by placing uncontented fines on them and the environment to remain polluting and at risk of unfavourable fines or being burdened with it. We, of course, say that administrative penalties are imposed in the event of ongoing infringements or infringements involving a direct risk to public health or threaten to have a direct negative impact on the environment. For violations falling under the Criminal Code, nothing changes at all. The violations that were criminally flattered remain such. In the new approach, therefore, infringements are classified in four categories, namely low, moderate, significant and very serious. Let us look at the scope of the fines. The maximum amount of fines is increased to EUR 5,000,000, from EUR 2,000,000, which was. I have not heard any of the opposition say 'This finds us in agreement'. There will be fines higher if this is a wide range of environmental costs and pollution. In closing this matter, I would like to make it clear because there are many and impeccable sounds. Of course, we don't want to shut down business. Of course, we do not want jobs to be lost. We want, however, - and we will apply it - that environmental legislation is kept up to the last party and the fines where they have to fall, fall to the person responsible for the infringement, because we are inconsistent with the protection of the environment. The reform that we are legislating proves it. We put time-limits where there were no environmental controls and so the polluter could escape from the absence of binding time limits. We are more than doubled by the fine than the EUR 2,000,000, which was the maximum, to the EUR 5,000,000. So all of this needs to be taken into account when you go to stone a reform that is really important. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall be coming to an end. Let us now look at the matter of forest maps. Of course, we are giving in this draft law an extension of four months for internal corrections to the thematic content of forest maps, the time available to citizens to submit to the forest services of the counties to which they belong for administrative acts which they have in their hands and an extension of the time to object against the content of forest maps. I do not understand why SYRIZA is particularly opposed. If SYRIZA disagrees! I don't understand. Mr. Femelle, do you disagree with the extension of time limits for forest maps? I do not think you will disagree, because if we look a little backwards in the past, we will see that you had given three to four extensions on a case-by-case basis, with a duration of 13.6 months. In other words, we are talking for four hundred days an extension to the ratification of forest maps, especially in eastern and western Attica, Drama, in Cyclades. Mr. Brutsis knows very well. We had extensions in the Cyclades, over and over and over, but also in Kosani. The average of the extensions given on SYRIZA to carry out the work of forest maps was nine months. Not to mention the accumulation of at least seventy thousand citizens' objections that would take the way the whole programme had been set up for at least fifteen years to be examined! So we did a serious job. What did we do? We started solving the problems that we found before us in relation to forest maps. Let me make it clear and stress that forest maps are a valuable tool. It is a tool to safeguard the natural resources, the forest and at the same time citizens' rights to property. We have reduced the fee of objections by 50% and resolved a hot issue, the property. So here, I will again invoke Mr Brutsi's experience. In the Cyclades, for example, if you had your grandfather’s plot to a grandfather for a hundred, a hundred, twenty years and the public came and said, “No. It's my plot," what should you, the citizen, the private? You should've been looking for property titles since 1840. Have you ever heard of anyone who has such a long tradition of keeping such a file? There wasn't even a mortgage unit back then! So what did we do with our reform? We said the game's changing. If the public is claiming the territory of the citizen in Naxos, the public should prove that he has these documents, the legal titles, so that he can claim it, and if the documents are legal and valid, then he will own them. And that's not all. We have prepared and "run" the solution to the problem of housing densities as well. I would remind you that the law of SYRIZA fell on the Council of State and on this matter. We, therefore, in the recent decision of the Council of State, which took a constitutional view of Article 48 of Law 468520, are moving forward and it appears that the deposit of forest maps is carried out not only by photo-interpretation, i.e. the 1945 orthopaedicist, but also by the incorporation into them of administrative acts, i.e. documents, public administration decisions, legal acts which the public administration itself itself granted to the citizen. So all these problems have been taken off our way, that is, from the citizens' streets, so that they will not be troubled. In fact, this property regime is not just about the Cyclades. It concerns the eastern and western Mani, the Dodecanese, the Ionian, Lesvos, Chios, Samos, the islands of the northern Aegean. Finally, it is clear that we are ready to legislate on two other hot issues that no one dared to touch. And whoever touched them had burned his hand. We are talking about the fields which have been forested over the years, the so-called 'flavoured fields', the 'A.D.', as well as the outdated areas for agricultural cultivation that had been allocated for seventy years, eighty, ninety, 100 years to individuals without the administrative operations. That is why we are going to legislate and I hope that there will be a consensus in this House. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I want to make this clear. This draft law, which will soon, I imagine, will become a law after its vote, gives us all a good chance in practice to prove how much we care about the environment, to prove in practice that words about environmental protection and climate crisis have an impact and the impact is this draft law. I would therefore urge you to vote in favour of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u144	And we thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u146	Here you go, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I want a minute. It will be in the interest of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u148	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u149	As a parliamentarian I also think I can, but also because Mr Amyras referred to me. Mr. Amyra, if you'd like, a little attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u150	Hot request to the MPs. Excuse me, but I give the floor for the Minister to ask. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u151	Because you have referred to me and I will do it for the benefit of both the law and the country and the citizens, to clarify the forest maps, because I had told you by the committees that we wanted an answer. Let us make it clear that there has never been a question about the actions of the administration that they must be integrated. I remember the 2010 law that provided for it. But let's put this aside, there's a S.T.'s decision. I'm not asking a question about that. The extensions that we - and Mr Brutsis and all of them remember - were because we had posted and considered forest maps on which we objected. The President remembers it for his region too. But the extension you are giving today - you say it in the explanatory statement - is why the actions of the administration must be integrated, the maps amended and the objections made must be made. And you probably said it in your speech - because we are also waiting for legislative initiatives on your behalf on forests, landed, etc. Therefore, the difference now in force is that citizens must know that because the forest maps are to be changed - you have a political initiative on this - they cannot object to a background that will be amended. That is what we want you to make clear, because it is about citizens. It's not about your own political function or mine. Citizens need to know. SYRIZA objected to a specific document. Now, because you have said it - we are seeing it in the explanatory statement - you must make it clear that we must not now get the world trapped into topographers, go anywhere else, as there are changes that need to be taken into account. That's the first one, and I think I've said it all along. It's clear, and forest services want it too. The second is that the government of SYRIZA delivered to you 45% of dominated forest maps without objection. Others were the objections. Today what percentage is it validated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u153	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u154	Of course, I will also be able to do so in my speech, Mr President, but because of the fact that my colleague asks us to make it understandable to everyone. Why are we prolonging the submission of objections? Because there is a possibility, we have proceeded to correct forest maps that we received from you on the basis of 45% that you had validated, but also the remaining 55% that is posted but not validated, but we have proceeded to corrections in respect of the studies we received from you - because you had started them and prepared them - that is, the studies on forest maps, the posted but unfounded, there are manifest errors there. We do not want to lead all Greeks to go and object and pay this price when we have already begun by an internal procedure to correct it so as to avoid suffering and costs. On the other hand, however, there is a possibility that anyone who wants to submit an objection, because he wants to give a quicker solution to his problem, to submit a request for objections, the committees on objections are already starting and being recommended, so they will work. So in parallel with the horizontal corrections that we are going to make, some others who want to make use of their real estate want to get a solution sooner, to submit an objection and, of course, to the opposition committee to resolve the issue, to be finalised and to move forward with the use of its land. That's very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u155	But it's changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u156	So we are in agreement on what you say and say. Of course you can vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Minister. In order to inform Members and Members of Parliament, I should like to point out the following: Today we will conclude the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and vote in principle on the articles and amendments of the draft law, with the exception of the amendment of the Ministry of Shipping, on which the Communist Party of Greece was asked to vote for a roll-call vote. The roll-call vote on the amendment under number 1103 and special 94 as well as the vote on the entire draft law will take place on Wednesday, October 20, at 11.00 p.m. This is all for colleagues and also for the parliamentary groups. We continue the process and call on the New Democracy MP, Mr Constantine Maraveya, to step up the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think I will start where Mr Amyras left it, congratulating him for showing the firm position of the government. The same thing you were saying, Minister, in May by Volos, as far as the forested fields are concerned, but also the administrative acts, the same goes on and the Ministry even says today, and that is an honor, but it is not the only one. The government is now next to those affected by the last catastrophic rains that hit the Greek region, especially northern Evia, but also Magnesia, which was hit hard by Athena. Rightly, then, fellow citizens are asking for state aid to cope with the new damage caused by bad weather. In this direction is the amendment - an addition to the Ministry of the Environment, which relates first of all to the abolition of a false news that SYRIZA has been spreading since August. I would remind you that following the recent catastrophic fires in northern Evia, we have seen some fake news about the so-called installation of wind farms in the burned forests. The first article, therefore, confirms that this could not happen even retroactively by the RAE. In fact, each licence application shall be suspended, even for spatial development projects. These are provisions which I think will also cover the most illusory, disgusting in the most resounding way those who insist on conspiracy theories. In favour of mountainous areas, the second article of the amendment on speeding up the award of special anti-corruption and anti-military works is also in favour of mountainous areas. We must remember that, in general terms, such projects concern the immediate protection of the floods, which Mr Triantopoulos has undertaken as Minister of State, but the medium-term flooding of the Ministry of the Environment has also been carried out. We all recognise the bureaucratic obstacles that arise in the execution of such projects, as well as the great effort of the government to overcome them. As recent rainfall has reminded us, the consequences of climate change are here to stay. That is why we must bear weight also in the long-term anti-military planning not only in the fire-fighting areas but also in the prefectures, such as Magnesia, which are hard hit by the climate crisis and last year, but, unfortunately, this year too, doing environmental protection work quickly and targeted. Minister, this bill with the main part of its provisions serves to achieve national objectives for saving and making better use of the available energy. Tools in this direction are also to strengthen competition in the energy market and modernise the environmental inspection framework and to set the target for reducing final energy consumption in 2030 by 38% compared with 2017 in all economic sectors: industry, transport, businesses and homes. A basic measure taken in line with Community legislation is the energy upgrading of public dwellings and buildings, the tertiary sector and of course industrial plants. This process has begun with the financing of renovation, modernisation actions and will continue with the certification of the energy efficiency of our country's building stock. Public obligations are created at this stage: Obligation to upgrade 3% of central government buildings per year, equivalent to about 12 000 square metres per year. In the case of the purchase of buildings by public bodies intended for housing services, the first 1-1-2022 is required to belong to at least the second energy category and to be almost zero energy consumption from 1-1-2026. Especially for central government bodies, the building is required to be almost zero energy consumption since January 1st of the new year, 2022. Building leases by public entities require that 1-1-2023 be of at least energy category B and be of almost zero consumption from 1-1 to 2026 and that local authorities are required to prepare energy-efficiency plans for buildings with the responsibility of regional and mayors as a prerequisite for the integration of local authorities into financing plans for the upgrading of their buildings. On the part of the real economy tools used are competitive processes combined with measures to promote efficient heating and cooling from renewable energy sources. Competitive energy efficiency improvements entail the financial support of technical energy savings in sectors with high potential, such as industry and the tertiary sector, and also the measure will be characterised by increased flexibility, as it will be open to all domestic enterprises, while it is expected to lead to an increase in the competitiveness of investment projects for energy savings. Undoubtedly, such actions along with projects to develop the so-called 'green economy', which will be financed by the Recovery Fund, will turn the real economy towards sustainable, environmentally friendly and - why not? - more profitable operation for the benefit of enterprises and workers. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 59 on forest maps is another particular point in the bill, and this is because granting the four-month extension of errors to correct and object to forest maps will literally give rise to all those involved, citizens, public enterprises and engineers. Extremely important is the possibility of internal, housed corrections to the thematic content of forest maps, which will be largely discharged for stakeholders from a pointless bureaucratic burden. In conclusion, I would like to focus on two very recent decisions by the government concerning not only energy, the draft law, but also the purely social dimension of government policy. I am also talking about the doubling of the heating allowance and the state subsidy for electricity and gas consumption. The EUR 168 million for the heating allowance announced by the government in order to meet the energy price increase rally relates to increasing the subsidy to both the amount and the number of beneficiaries and, thus, the subsidized will now exceed one million households and the maximum allowance is increased to EUR 750 per beneficiary. The citizens will see twice as much in electricity as the Prime Minister had originally announced, which means that every household will receive a retroactive grant of EUR 18 per month. Thus, the total direct grant amount for electricity accounts will exceed EUR 400 million. This is a total of EUR 0.5 billion that helps households face the energy costs of both this autumn and winter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. The New Democracy and the Prime Minister personally demonstrated once again that their announcements at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki were not only real, but also binding. Most importantly, however, they demonstrated the unreliable gap of unreliability between the current government and Mr Tsipras' promises in Thessaloniki, because, either as opposition or as government, SYRIZA identified in the eyes of the people only lies and delusional ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u159	And we thank Mr. Maraveya. Please prepare the Step in order for SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mrs Rallia Christidou to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are discussing today in plenary a bill which has come under extermination procedures: four meetings of committees in three days and without any gap, the fourth day you bring it to the vote. Express procedures for a draft law which three fifths of its articles were out of public consultation. In other words, you are once again showing contempt, a systematic allergy to the functioning of this Parliament, which, as much as you want to do, we will not accept as normality. You are bringing the draft ‘Integration of a European Energy Efficiency Directive’. Yes, sir. In these procedures you have added articles regardless of the directive, but you have not included a single regulation on the problem of accuracy in the accounts of households and businesses. The issue of discussion throughout the country, the anxiety about how family and corporate budgets can cope with increases in electricity, gas, is, it seems, not about the government staff, who insists on this neoliberal idealism. On the one hand, you are selling off the energy agencies and on the other hand, you expect the market to self-regulation and reduce the price of electricity. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in the government of SYRIZA PPC lowered tariffs by 12%, provided facilities to vulnerable households and businesses, supported the Greek industry, took measures to reduce energy poverty. That's the reality. These were our works. What's yours exactly? The constant burden on consumers is almost the first month you have taken on government. In September 2019 you proceeded to increases at around 20% in PPC tariffs. And that's a reality. The collapse of fuel prices in the first half of 2020 was not passed on to consumers, as you obviously imagined, but led to the over-profit of electricity suppliers as they sold even four times above the wholesale price. The government was watching with carelessness. In November 2020, we had a new cost of hundreds of millions of euros, with toys on the balancing market due to the start-up of the energy stock exchange, without adequate supervision. The market monitoring and surveillance mechanism provided for by legislation in July 2021 has not been implemented until now. The government continued to monitor - how else? - Still careless and irresponsible. You have not taken any measures to limit energy poverty. Instead of reducing the excise duty, instead of intervening in the activity and practices of those who are responsible for fact, you have announced insufficient, you have announced minimum allowances that do not reduce the accuracy, but protect and enrich the bank account of those responsible for that accuracy. And you bring this bill, a bill that is absolutely hypocritical to the issues of 'green development'. We have given you the Elektara programme ready, i.e. energy savings for public buildings, and for two years you have frozen it. While we had secured 500m euros from the European Investment Bank with ready-to-do pilot projects throughout Greece, do you bring in a bill with serious shortcomings in relation to public buildings, thus being practically what else? It's a bribe. Even the Chairman of the Technical Chamber pointed out that with your settings in an extremely large pool of buildings they are excluded from the obligation to improve their energy efficiency. And the reason is simple, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: You are planning partnerships with the private sector to save energy in public buildings so that money can come back to your party friends. But these plans against the common interest do not stop here. They continue with the inspectors and environmental auditors. Your Government initially abolished the Special Inspection Secretariat and then proceeded to break down environmental audit and predicted private auditors. Yes, sir. It now changes the way of imposing environmental sanctions and fines, leaving not just windows but wide windows to circumvent environmental legislation, so that it does not ultimately impose fines, abolishing the principle that the polluter should pay, without a flow diagram, without clear evaluation criteria, with vague procedure and audit criteria and fines. We do not say so, but SYRIZA says so, and the Scientific Committee of Parliament, when referred to in Article 50. It dedicates Article 4 to the entire pages, and asks for further definition of the legal concepts of the article. It shall raise a question of possible application of the provision and shall identify points requiring a more detailed description, in accordance with Article 43(2) of the Constitution. On the substance of the case, the auditors will determine subjectively whether or not a breach is referred to criminal responsibilities. Field, then, glorious glory to undergo all kinds of pressure and blossom what else? The complication. But that's exactly what you seek, the existence of intercom and pressure circuits, because that's how you set up your client networks and forged your ties with interests. What about the best? You're bringing us a provision on forest maps. In fact, a new extension of the forest map content, because your government with Law 46852020 decided to cancel the maps completed on SYRIZA by 45% in June 2019. You have made the forest maps synonymous with the Bridge of Arta, ladies and gentlemen, who were building it at night was demolished, and you are preparing the ground to be sacrificed, not the woman of the prototype as our city song says, but the country's environmental law. Finally, while for two years you have frozen the development of energy communities, you have brought in this bill arrangements that are contrary to the spirit of communities. They are altering their character and aim at strengthening large-scale investors. Articles 36, 37 and 40 of the bill effectively circumvent the core of the operation of energy communities. You are opposed to and opposed to energy communities, precisely because they are instruments of social justice, an idea that causes you to shudders, it causes you to be classy disobedient, that. I am closing with this, Mr President, because I have no time to develop more on the draft law. In conclusion, I would just like to assure you that every consumer's electricity bill will be a strong demonstration of the New Democracy's energy events and you can be sure and sure that your completely failed events will have the sound response that they deserve and which they deserve very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. I now give the SYRIZA Member the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Syriza.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President, I will speak from here. I shall speak in particular about the amendment tabled by Mr Brutsis on the Naxos smurf. Mr Brutsis has obviously brought this amendment out of the difficult position of the government. Because the government since 2019, which received the country's governance, has been in front of a problem that it wanted to solve in 2012. We all remember the provision made by the Samara - Venizelos Government, where they had actually decided to close the mines. It did not pass in 2012, because the opposition was mobilised, the smyroidists were mobilised, the municipality and all the Naxos actors and now, while we had entered a process that the mines were normally opened, there was an institutionalised provision to open until the end of the first six months of each year, the New Democracy Government, for the third consecutive year, does not open the mines, but seeks to give the insurance right to the smyrders through the sorting of already extracted smyrda. Obviously, neither do the smyroidists nor the six villages to which these people are employed, nor of course the municipality and local government of Naxos. They were found in great discontent and indignation, mobilized. I, two weeks ago, had tabled a timely question which was discussed with the Secretary-General, Mr Tagaras, and there we learned that the solution to the quantity of products already exported is again being chosen. I mean, they don't open the mines this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u163	But for security reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Amyras, that's the pretext. Because in our own government, in the last few years we have been ruling, Mr Stathakis has taken personal responsibility and despite the opposite suggestions, he has opened up the mines and the accident, which you invoked, took place outside the mines, had nothing to do with the safety of the mines itself. So what now? What goes on in the amendment is to effectively abolish the seventy-fifths plaque, which was established by the earlier provision you voted for, something unacceptable, because too many people have delivered larger quantities and therefore more. This was in no way accepted by the smilers. That is what this amendment is today. We will vote for it, because it is in favour of safeguarding the right, for this year, for 2021, for the hammer-miners, but that is not a solution. The solution we had launched was to open the mines, to have a specific budget for environmental safeguarding the conditions and safety of workers within the mines. We left you a special envelope. The study, commissioned to the IGM, was also carried out in order to proceed with a wider solution of a sustainable finally progression of the development of the smyrida along with a holistic development of all the villages of Naxos. You are now going to an emblematic solution, which will again be temporary and which you will find in front of you, because it is obviously not satisfied with the hammer workers, because you are simply blocking a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Armalene. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. The debate on today's bill, on the energy efficiency of buildings and, more generally, on energy, is taking place at a time when we are seeing very great increases in fuel and energy prices. And here was a barren controversy about who was to blame. The Government argues that these increases in electricity and fuel prices are imported and are of a temporary nature. SYRIZA and other opposition parties are putting the burden of increasing these prices to the ideologies and management deficiencies of the New Democracy Government. But this confrontation is meaningless. Why is it meaningless? Because it covers the actual responsible of the new wave, the new rally price increases, a rally of growth that consumes popular incomes. Why do you want to cover up the responsible person? Because none of you from the other parties and from the government wants to harm the system's sacrosancts and loyals, namely the interests of the monopolies, but you are consistently serving them either by the governmental thugs or the opposition's thugs by cultivating delusional and exonerating them from the enormous responsibilities they have. None of you wants to highlight the major responsibilities of the European Union's policy, a policy of hostileness and energy towards the satisfaction of the people's needs. On the contrary, this European Union policy has accepted, supported and implemented it. In fact, some speakers have now come to the point that they are urging the European Union's policy and even presenting it as socially sensitive to yesterday's decisions to deal with the accuracy which they were? It was far behind, if you want, and from the government, which is coal on the basis of the substance and not treasure. So what does the European Union say? He says there could be targeted suspension or reduction of taxes on whom? For the poorest populaces and not generally for the poor. Again, for the poorest populaces. Poor mattresses or less poor ones what will they do? They will pay on the basis of the new increases of this huge new cost and even taxation. So the poorest layers will be paid for the poorest, so that they can be relieved, so that we do not get to conditions where there will be victims of bad weather because they cannot get warm. On the other hand, the pain of the European Union was about what will happen and how will the Member States and the European Union support as a whole the large groups that have seen the cost of energy launching and thus lose to competitiveness by other multinational Imperialist centres. This is the pain of the European Union, and what does it propose as a solution? It proposes as a solution to speed up the transition to renewable energy sources and to speed up the implementation of these investment plans. In this context, therefore, the proposals of the Government and the other parties are also under way. They do not question the European Union's hostile policy, they propose measures that do not relieve the people of Europe, of a temporary nature, when the European Union itself says that this crisis, the price rise will reach at least as high as April, but even if lower, prices will be stabilised at a level much higher than they were in the past period. So the problem of energy poverty and non-satisfaction with the needs of the people's strata will remain for the coming years. Let us look at the substance a little more specifically, because it is precisely the policy of the European Union and the new wave of accuracy. It is precisely because the European Union's policy is to liberalise the energy market, to curtail PPC, to privatise in every form, which all governments have served to create an area capable of investing and acting in the energy, electricity production, marketing and exploitation sectors. So all governments, with the exception of all governments, gave huge scandalous subsidies to the predators of green energy to move forward with their new investments. They had a policy of supporting RES production prices for business groups, such prices that ensured their overcompensation. They imposed the anarchy on the placement of wind and photovoltaic parks so that they could ensure that they have high energy production, taking advantage of the air and also sunshine at the expense of even the protection of the environment itself. The Government of SYRIZA proceeded with the creation of the energy stock exchange so that large suppliers could make contracts for a duration by buying at low prices, wholesale, and by selling at high prices when the retail electricity price allowed them to do so. The result of all this liberalisation policy is very specific. Extreme current for the people, to the detriment of workers in the electricity sector, to the reduction of workers, to intensification of work, to the shifts in industrial relations, to contract workers, to the rental workers, to contract workers and to the detriment of the environment, of course. Secondly, this liberalisation policy is complemented by the strategic choice of the European Union for the green transition. Thus, it imposes carbon charges, which artificially increase the price of electricity from lignite, so they make it much more precise and at the same time finance the companies active in the RES. In this context, they shall proceed to defoliation. And SYRIZA has accepted the Change Movement and the New Democracy's Degree, which essentially depreciates and destroys the only domestic source of electricity generation from fossil fuel, so that there can be no stability of the system, because in the current technical data a system of energy, which meets its needs only from renewable energy sources and the option that has been made, is that natural gas, imported fuel, will be a transition fuel. And this choice is common to both SYRIZA and the New Democracy, namely the current government. Transition fuel, which leads to energy dependence and the huge increase in gas prices and because of strong geopolitical competitions, has led to the evacuation of the energy price, not only in Greece but in all the countries of the European Union and has opened a very big debate at European Union level, if this transfer model to green energy is the acceptable model, and if it can only in substance through renewable sources to address the needs of the European Union for electricity consumption. At the same time, even though this debate has been opened, the Commission insists on speeding up investment in RES and infrastructure for networks that serve investment in RES. And all that, having as a hypocritical interest in protecting the environment. Neither the European Union nor the current or previous governments are interested in protecting the environment. On the contrary, we see that the placement of wind parks destroys the mountainous volumes, the forest wealth of our country, and indeed some wind parks are responsible for the severe flooding phenomena in some areas, because they were done without studying the water resources arrangement. If you really were interested in the environment and in cheap energy, you would prefer hydroelectric projects, because they are the cheapest, most environmentally compatible, because they lead to the savings of water resources that are lost in enrichment not only in the production of cheap energy, but also in water that could also be used for water and irrigation. But that is not the problem of protecting the environment. Your problem is how to find a way out of overcompensated funds, which, in essence, the medicine to save business groups is transformed into a drug against the peoples, because the "green" transition and the "green" energy is further expanding social inequalities, further expanding energy poverty, which is afflicting wide-ranging populace. And because you know that that is where things are going and New Democracy and SYRIZA, and even SYRIZA as more massagers in the political delusion they cultivate in the world, what are they telling me now? They speak of 'energy democracy', a meaningless term, without substance, to cover what? That just this evolution of things will further exacerbate inequality. It speaks of energy communities, which are nothing but a new form of privatisation, which will, in essence, prepare the ground to bring private companies to their hands after a time when any energy communities have become and can make use of these new ones. At the same time, you do not take into account a debate that is now taking place at European Union level in order to increase the cost of energy production from renewable sources, from wind and photovoltaic. Why is this launching of production costs? Because it is related to the supply chain, that is, to photovoltaics and wind turbines become much more accurate. The price of copper, lithium, cobalt, steel, rare earths that are basic conditions, basic materials for their manufacture, is being launched. So we'll get to a point where the costs of installation and photovoltaics and wind turbines that now artificially seem to have lower prices are forbidden. Of course, the second part that comes in and which is also part of the bill is the energy savings of buildings and the energy efficiency of buildings with the specific directive of the European Union, with which both SYRIZA and the Change Movement and others agree. Do you know what this is all about? Reminds the saying attributed to Maria Antoinette: “Why does the world shout that it has no bread and does not eat pancakes?” In other words, to a person who can't heat his home, he lives in homes under terrible conditions, who can't even meet his housing needs, you tell him to turn his house into energy efficient when in conditions of capitalist market this is expensive. But here he can't feed his family, is that what's bothering him? In fact, the whole design is so contradictory, because it serves the needs of capital and the multinationals that you do not care for them to be earthquakes in an area that is particularly seismic. So there will be the paradox of a house, which is not anti-Semitism, to be energy efficient, so with the first earthquake to suffer enormous catastrophes, even though energy-efficient. So we say very clearly - and I conclude, Mr President, that the capitalist market in the energy sector and energy, competition between the large groups in order to safeguard profits, is at the expense of labour rights and is at the expense of meeting people's needs. So we say that today the struggle of the people needs to be organised and to face up to the new wave of precision that eats people's incomes, which is yet another source that breaks people's incomes, fights against the further privatization of businesses in the energy sector, aiming at the real opponent, namely the interests of monopolies and their energy and their state, the urban state that supports these interests. So we have tabled a specific amendment, which of course is not the terrible one, but at least it can relieve, the abolition of indirect taxes and excises on energy products, fuels, water and telecommunications, and which essentially calls into question the policy of the key responsibility, namely the policy of the European Union, to demonstrate that the struggle of the people must be concentrated on its real opponent. Look. The contradiction that exists is that our country is very rich in sources of energy and fossil and renewable. She's too rich. It could be used precisely and we say that all the sources must be exploited. In the present circumstances all the sources must be exploited, and there is technology to prevent carbon footprints from being used by lignite, which costs far less than the billions you spend as a subsidy for the 'treaty' of green energy. The storage of this coal could also be used in other sectors of the economy. There are already a number of research into the use of carbon pollutants in other sectors of the economy. From this point of view, of course, if renewable sources are properly put in place, then, the use of all sources can be combined to meet the criteria for energy efficiency, energy adequacy, for cheap energy covering all the people's needs, for cheap energy covering all the productive needs of our country and for processing and agricultural production, and which can and can also be exported with respect to the environment. In order to meet all these criteria together, we also need a socialisation of the sources of energy and the socialisation of the means of producing electricity and infrastructure in a context of more overall socialisation of the means of producing central planning and labour control, which can only be done in socialism and never in capitalism. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u167	And we thank Mr. Karathanasopoulos. I shall now give the honourable Member the floor, Mr Himara.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all experiencing the price rally in fossil fuels lately, which affects all sectors of economic activity. Europe can say that it is dancing at the rate of gas. The Commission plans to maintain high energy prices from the coming spring. According to recent estimates, gas prices are expected to stabilise at a lower level by April 2022. At the same time it invokes market expectations and considers that current prices will probably be temporary. These are the data, unfortunately, and on the basis of this data and the dynamic development that the Greek Government is right to adopt, respectively, dynamic household and business support policies. It is not easy for the government, but it has proved to be the right way, as it was not easy, in the case of aid to the economy to start with the effects of the coronary pandemic. I would remind you that the voices of populism then demanded that aid be given forward, when we did not know the extent and duration of the impact that would have been. The populists then argued that the government should make most of the financial resources available directly, to sort of delete the obligations and debts in the logic of lionisms of the unforgettable period of the SYRIZA twin - ANEL "by a law and an article". Unlike the voices of populism, the government has managed to implement targeted aid policies for households, workers and businesses, which have managed to keep our economy up. The measures to tackle the energy crisis and the dishonesty are also moving in the same logic. Let the citizens be assured that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will respond to the maximum extent of seriousness, responsibility and above all effectiveness. I come to our very important today's bill, through which we are strengthening our energy policies over the last two years. In particular, in relation to achieving national energy savings targets, we all know that buildings are a dynamic basis for energy savings. The measures taken by the Government focus on the energy upgrade of housing buildings, public buildings, industry, with the "EXOCOCONOMO - AUTOMO" programme. The new programme aims to upgrade 50 thousand dwellings energy, and it will be fairer and more reliable, after the inclusion of the proposals has been abolished, according to the time of the request. The platform will be open for a month and at the same time, for the whole country. It is also essential for the success of the programme that funds be allocated at the level of the counties rather than at the regional level, because needs and priorities are different, even within the region itself. It is also important that within 2021 of the Ministry's plans it is the beginning of implementation of the business "EXOCONOME", with potential beneficiaries of micro and large enterprises. The programs "EXOCOCONOMO" have accelerated the upgrading to about 30 thousand buildings. The National Plan for Research and Climate, the ESRB, provides for the energy upgrading of at least six hundred thousand homes by 2030 and the new "EXOCOCONOMO - AUTONOMO" will make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives of the ESRB. It is foreseen that the development of energy-efficiency plans with the responsibility of regional and mayors is a prerequisite for the integration of local authorities into financial plans for the upgrading of their buildings. In the second field, the provisions of our legislation are also important in relation to the greater penetration of renewable energy sources. The objectives of the National Energy and Climate Plan, the actions as well as the investments planned in the context of its implementation by 2030, concern, in addition to the upgrading of our own stock, the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions through the decommissioning and greater penetration of RES. The participation of RES in energy production is now almost three times greater than that of lignite. The transition from lignite, but also from fossil fuels from the RES, concerns not only our country's energy commitments but also the country's economic interest. It concerns something much more important: In the energy self-sufficiency of the country, which can only be achieved by exploiting our comparative advantages, sun and air, but also by designing to store energy produced, along with upgrading the networks, always with respect to the environment, but also in the heavy industry of our country, tourism, with priority and the installation of offshore wind parks in a rational manner. The revision of the framework for the specific spatial planning of RES, which is capable and sufficient, is a prerequisite for everything that I have said. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government is gradually developing its green agenda, proving that respect for the environment requires actions. With today's draft law, these instruments effectively focus on rationalising the national energy saving targets, strengthening competition in the energy market, the necessary modernisation of the environmental inspection framework, the requirement to grant an extension of errors and the submission of administrative objections to forest maps. For these reasons, I invite you to vote on today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, too, Mr. Himara. I will now give the MEP of the Change Movement, Mr. Apostolos Pana. Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u170	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I could not begin my position on the hot question of energy accuracy and, in particular, electricity, which is a burden on the middle-class, the economically weaker citizens, as well as the businesses, who are now trying to deal with the fire of energy accuracy, which, unfortunately, is in front of us. You have already been accepted, Mr Minister, and your predecessor for petitions and questions about the inability of the rural world to cope with increased economic requirements of electricity, at the moment, even when the price of oil, the necessary tool in the primary sector, has risen sharply, as well as in heating oil. And all this at a time when we're going to a heavy energy winter. And we now have in front of us a directive, without any real organisation and without any plan to button together with the other tools and programmes, and it is certain that it will need to be immediately updated, because of the new ESRB and the new European Union decisions on the Fit for 55 package. Let me also point out and remind you that for the past three years we have been talking about energy democracy, which can effectively deal with energy poverty, through the decentralised production of electricity from the RES. Since April 2020 we have proposed modalities for energy efficiency of energy savings, the allocation of national resources and resources to an energy upgrade and energy savings programme of all the country's health structures. Since March we have proposed climate law. And from February, as a Movement of Change, we are calling for a revision of government policy towards energy communities, with immediate means of supporting them. You are now, with this bill, abolishing the priority of these energy communities for providing connections with IPTO, on the applications made from 1-1-2021. These fronts, as my colleagues have pointed out, have been mentioned with the energy communities: they have been opened up - they are closed down by lignite plants, the poor and delayed implementation of the 'EXSOCIUM' programmes, as well as the exclusion of areas such as Halkidiki, from natural gas, have created a particularly difficult situation in management, a situation which has led to an increase in amounts and, in essence, the subsidisation of gas, which is now almost 50% the source of electricity in our country. Five hundred thousand families, Minister, and thousands more companies using natural gas, will have to pay double energy costs, as the rise in international prices has led to double costs compared to last year. Most governments have already announced immediate measures to mitigate the impact of energy price increases on businesses and households. And how do we go? Climate reality should therefore be addressed with environmentally and economicly friendly solutions. But the question remains more urgent than ever: cheap electricity and cheap heating. Mr Minister, although there are provisions in this bill that go in the right direction, unfortunately, these measures do not cover the consumption of a four-member family. The heating allowance does not cover the middle class and the actual burden of the weaker, nor do you include anything to increase the prices of popular consumption products, since the increasing energy costs of businesses are passed on to the consumer and to the Greek society and the economy, which remain unprotected. In front of us, then, we have climate change, the climate crisis, which will bring other phenomena, as the winter that comes will continue to test citizens' resistance. The aim of this bill at the moment, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, should, firstly, be to balance the increases that have begun to appear in the consumer accounts since August and the end of the grey areas in the energy tariffs received by citizens and also to ensure transparency in charges. If this legislation was done in the light of the decongestion of our already economically and psychologically confirmed fellow citizens and with proposed support mechanisms, we would be in the right direction. In the context of this, then, the necessary changes must be made concerning the citizens of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Pana. And now we're going to the seconds of special speakers and rapporteurs. Not all special speakers are here, so I'll give Mrs. Perka the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that these days we have debated the draft law very much. So in closing, I'll say my complaint. I expect some answers from the Minister to questions I have asked from the first time, from the first committee, which I have not yet received. I will repeat them very soon. I want him to tell us about the agreement with the European Commission with regard to Antitrust, how participation and the European stock exchange helps the domestic market, how quantities sold without the institutional framework, which has not yet been voted on, is what we are discussing, and the Monitoring Trustee. To tell us if, at the end of the day, the European Commission's communication is able to give out of lignite electricity, because it has not gone through Article 45 and there remains a gap. These must be answered today, otherwise I sincerely tell you, ladies and gentlemen, it is like discussing for no reason. But let's go now to the rest. As far as the directive is concerned, I have nothing to add. She really is without inspiration, without vision, without hug her in her thinking. We have even found articles that do not even go hand in hand with this directive. It replaces articles and suits other aims. In this part, however, of performance and because I have taken the floor from a press release of the RIS, which says about efficient heating and cooling from RES, which is very nice and correct, I will therefore ask the Minister: With the Florina-Megalopolis TVs, firstly, which you have cut and will go with natural gas to heat the residents who will end up and are the same residents who have paid for the lignite monoculture and the consequences that this has - especially for Florina - to say that it has the lowest temperatures that exist in our country as a city - and will enter natural gas with public money, the residents will also go into costs and in a few years' time they will tell them that natural gas is being cut off because it is a fossil fuel. And the government's policy is confirmed that when it says decommissioning means defoliation rather than carbonisation and replacement of lignite with natural gas. There is also the option for Ptolemais 5, which we consider to be unacceptable. One and a half billion euros in a project that is still working and has not started. If she can work for a year, it's a matter of lignite and then it's gas. Please listen to this proposal. Follow a proposal from the World Bank, which talks about storage. There are other proposals that you need to consider, because they are the property of the Greek people. But, in order to get back to the rehearsals, beyond Florina and Megalopolis, which are funny examples really of European data, I have not seen you prepare anywhere and a remote heating from RES, efficient heating - cooling. These are all fine texts that are not in a reality. Listen a little. I said before and I repeat it: it is a great deal of bet the green transition. It is very difficult for areas which have a great deal to do with carbonisation. We say 'yes' to the green transition, 'yes' and 'yes' to plan defoliation. There must be preparation when it is announced. So it means that the operation is stopped and there will be too many consequences. Unemployment, as I told you, has fled into the area. To date, two years later, we have not seen the special urban plans on which it depends and the kind of restoration, which will be re-proposing for what use these lands will be. We haven't seen them yet. We've been waiting for two years. If you don't take care of the place, what are you gonna do over there? Not to say about the emblematic investments we saw as a plan, the master plan, let's say, the liberation, and when the land came back, the emblematic investments were missing. There's no design. These are very dangerous, because green transition and defoliation means changing the productive profile of a region. The change in the production profile therefore takes at least a decade and a lot - very tight design and resources of course. We have asked a question about the allocation of resources, and we do not see anything there, but in any case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I said I would say a few, but I say again: why is the cost of district heating not subsidized? There is the municipality of Amyntai, which is with biomass and is excluded from the subsidy of district heating. And they do not support public district heating, so that they do not transfer costs to the citizens. You're gonna have to see this. Otherwise, I would like to say that the issue of electricity space for energy communities and virtual energy offset projects, the financial tools from the polluting revenues, but also from the programmes must go into a comprehensive design and be the norm. There are many small businesses in the regions, which, because they are self-employed but do not enter the unemployment fund, have borrowed and got expensive earthworking machines and so on, and at the moment they owe insurance, tax, banks. Something needs to be done with this population. When you go to do that kind of dynamic intervention, you have to support the local society. I will not go back to PPC because this debate has indeed become too tiring. I will only say something that has not been said. You measure PPC's stock exchange value when it was with IPTO and compare it with the aftermath that IPTO has separated. You did not say anything about privatization and 49% of the TEN. We believe that, because the DEDDIE is PPC's main source of profit and is linked to RES projects, smart meters, 5G, it loses a very serious asset. Nevertheless, Minister, on the subject of environmental legislation, I think you are dealing with this whole part of it. This is also evidenced by the tabling of the amendments. There are articles in the amendments that conflict with the articles of the same law that we are debating here today. Also, and I'm ending with it, you have to leave that account alone. Something you have to do with the ELPE account. We can see again that 60% is being removed. I hope that for the resources of western Macedonia and Megalopolis at some point - you have promised - 6%, which you make it 1%, to come back and not say to increase because of defoliation. And I owe a final answer from yesterday to Mr Amyras, which has to do with AEGEAN, and I would like to say to him that the airlines, as has been done all over the world, must also be supported, not just by job subsidies and so on, under certain conditions, and I shall bring the example of Germany. The German government took 20% of the shares by subsidising LUFTHANSA, two members of the board of directors with veto and veto rights and of course also handed the bonuses they share with their managers. This has not happened in this country. So I was on a line. Let Mr. Amyras see if his party's line covers him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u173	And we thank Mrs. Perka. The reason now for the special speaker of the Movement of Change, George Arvanitides, to be given the floor by Mrs Manolakos. Here, Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u174	We have nothing to break up with with Mrs Manolakou to find it in parliamentary order. I take the floor without wishing to do a second word, because in my position and in the placement of many colleagues it is clear that the process itself is inappropriate for the Minister, who is in a critical sector, both crucial for the green transition and the new era that is being shaped, but also crucial for the Greek economy. You cannot continue, Minister, and follow this way of legislating, because you are wrongful of your own effort, with which in many respects one can agree. We will vote negatively in the bill with the statement - and we will vote too many articles - that we are totally opposed to the process that you are following, which may then lead us not to participate. I was consciously missing enough from the Chamber. I don't have anything to add, then. They were made monologues by Stepma, not substance answers, not reflection. I have no problem when I disagree with the government, as long as the government justifies that you are not saying things right, because that is the case. But not responding to the basic arguments put to you by evidence is a deficit. That is why the deficit in the debate and how you legislate with the amendments as they come at the last minute will be voting negatively and we will vote too many articles. I would also like to explain the vote that will follow on the Ministerial Amendment 1106. It contains the positive element which Mr Kegeroglou's proposal before, as regards the distinct electrical space for the energy communities. And our argument and our understanding and philosophy are to vote on it. We shall vote in favour, although in the other provisions we may not agree, and that must be heard because, yes, we shall vote 'yes' in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. Before I invite the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule 3126/2003, "Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on October 11, 2021, a criminal case for the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr Ioannis Plackatotakis. And now I call on the Step for its own dentistry, the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u176	You have not told us what you are accepting from the parliamentary amendments, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u177	Both.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u178	Yeah, but let's get on with it. Are you both doing it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u179	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u180	Yeah, 'cause I want to place myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I am accepting Amendments Nos 1101 and 1102. 1101 is about the insurance of smyrna workers. 1102 concerns the uses of the ‘GEORGIOS KARAIS’ step. We have also tabled two ministerial amendments Nos 1105 and 1106, to which I shall refer in my speech. I am also tabling legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u182	Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u183	The flood situation is tragic. No prevention plan, no flood protection. That proves it. And I say it because it's not that there weren't any calls. Let's say the three municipalities, Piraeus, Nice-Rente and Moschato, had sent you an early letter on immediate protection measures, because the burned at Kifissos would lower what you can imagine and you can understand it and it is already inflamed. The answer was a ball, 'we are unresponsible, the Ministry of Transport is responsible and the region is responsible'. Now, if people are drowning and people are being destroyed, who are you going to ask for the change? In Corfu, the world has been trapped on the rooftops. Illustrations of shame are seen in school complexes in Philadelphia, New Ionia, in containers, improvised bridging bridges with thorns, a bus with people on the bridge there near the Foundation "Norarch" and the water to the waist. Really, what do you think of prevention after all? We're asking you. The message of dangerous weather phenomena? You read it and tell us what measures are being taken and apologise. Finally, you don't have money for building schools or anti-military. But you have billions every year for NATO and the strengthening of renewable energy groups within and from this bill. And I want to say to the world that when we say 'we demand money for people's needs and not for capital', that is what we mean. Not to burn in the summer and drown in the strong rains by destroying people's properties, which were labored and many sacrifices made. As far as the amendments are concerned, you have brought them up to the point that they should not be discussed, that those who are interested and affected should not be invited. At 703, which we have also asked for a roll-call vote, we are of course not voting against - and we are calling for it to be withdrawn, because it is unacceptable and provocative for both its articles: it refers to the naval mechanism of international competitions in order to settle port debts to that end. In other words, the Port Corps, in addition to Special Forces, is part of NATO procurement and training procedures. In other words, as is the case with the entire state mechanism, it serves the naval war machine, this warhouse. And, of course, where it is challenging is the abolition of organic positions on the seaships. In other words, after uninsured seamen, without collective agreements, etc., you are actually leaving them without organic posts. This is dangerous to life and safety at sea. But it is very convenient for the profits of armaments capital. And that's what you're doing. Already the trade unions are mobilizing. They got a complaint. We submit their communication to the Minutes. For 1104 we would prefer to vote separately for the articles, because in some of the articles we agree, such as the ones concerning the Municipality of Istia, Edipsos, Mandudi, Lake and Agia Annas. Of course, others are unacceptable, especially those that strengthen capital and sell LARCO. With regard to the article that is a partial payment of grants to hospitals, we say'residents', because the essential issue is not the instalments, but the main thing is that over time the amount of State subsidy expressed in the serious problem of subsistence of equipment, infrastructure and direct or indirect payments of patients to public hospitals is insufficient. And, of course, expenditure has been drastically reduced from 2015 to 2019, at least 4.3%. At 1105 we would like a break-up with regard to Northern Evia and it is favourable. We want to vote on it, but it is unacceptable to use the great catastrophe to assign anti-corrosion - anti-wrinkle projects to very high value mountain hydronomic volumes when there is a framework for them to be made sooner and to be transparent. But here, you finally want to favour specific ones. Also, one really laughs at the amendment to Article 50 in this bill. You are trying on the tracks that you have already established to make an escalation of fines, after you promised them that they would be monopositions. This is where you put the amount of fines with a decisive criterion of what? Not the seriousness, i.e. the risk of pollution caused, but the polluting company’s cigarette. You're finally going to cover up really big environmental crimes. 1106 is also a series of amendments which could also be drafted, but I will say something that is the most provocative. By way of derogation from the decisions of the Energy Regulatory Authority, the energy planning you have, does not even apply to this elementary control carried out by the Energy Regulatory Authority with scientific analyses and proposals. What are you talking about? ‘We do what we want, as long as we meet the requirements and profitability of business groups.’. Even decision to remove saturation. It is unacceptable and of course we are voting against it. With regard to Mr Brutsi's proposal, and we had tabled a question and asked not only to be paid for 2021, but it is still in 2019, with no requirements for the quantity of production, because there was a problem with the coronary, but the workers are also in anguish and demand the modernisation of mining for the emirida. However, we will vote for it, but there are still unfinished issues. With regard to the amendment on the 'GREORGIOS KARAISKIS' stage, can I say something to you? What are the people's needs? I say this to give an answer to what we mean people's needs. Is it the trade in sports? Of course not. They are anti-military, earthquakes, streets, modern schools, etc. Nor is it the same as the needs of people with disabilities or the rehabilitation of injuries, because who will provide these services in a public space? We're talking about private companies. We're not talking about government agencies. Some needs may be right to be provided. Sure. But from whom and for whom? We are still talking about adjustments to land use, in order to make stores in public places. All right, here's a light light light light light that's an amendment to the profitability of Olympiacos PAE, which, from a fan to a commercial limited company. We can't vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. The speaker of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. I have only one question to ask the Minister, to know what we are going to vote on. I put it during my speech and the State Secretary, and I did not get an answer. Mr Screka, it concerns Amendment No 1105. If you're kind enough to answer us to see what we're going to vote on. Sounds good, we read it as good. It concerns suspension of applications for wind parks in burnt in Evia. You are also saying that even pending applications for licences are correctly rejected - and those issued from 1 January 2021, in other words, those issued in the case of wind parks in northern Evia, are being withdrawn here. We ask this: is the suspension temporary? If the suspension is temporary, we can't vote for it, because we're against it. So if it's in five months to authorize burnt-out wind turbines, we can't vote for it. Answer us, let's know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The speaker and rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Kollias, have the floor. Then the Minister will speak, Mr. Screkas. Here you go, Mr. Collia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. I will continue my introduction to those parts of the bill that I have not been able to present in my prototype. Before I begin, however, I would really like to express my delight in both the leadership and the partners of the Ministry of the Environment, because today we have been presented with a bill which has received very important points in the consultation, a bill significantly improved and useful for the important environmental issue of energy efficiency and energy savings. With regard to the defoliation, the deinvestment obligation provided for in the same case is abolished and PPC is allowed to merge by absorption by PPC of the companies ‘Linetic Megalopolis SA’ and ‘Linistic Melitis Monopoly S.A.’. Then, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to refer to the sixth part of this draft law, which provides for provisions for the modernisation of the framework for environmental inspections, namely the redefinition of the procedure for environmental audits, in a uniform manner, within fixed deadlines and, inter alia, what action will be taken in cases of infringements and relapse of the infringements concerned, and when the risk to the public interest is at stake. It should also be made clear that these checks will be aimed at improving environmental management and will not be punishable unless they are extremely important infringements, with a serious risk to the environment and human health. Furthermore, it will be set up at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Directorate-General for Body of Inspectors and Auditors, which will replace the Special Inspection Office for the Environment. Finally, transitional provisions are also laid down until the institutional framework is completed by adopting the proposed Ministerial Decision. In the seventh part, ladies and gentlemen, certain points of Law 4819/2021 are clarified, and in particular it is clarified that only financial self-controls of collective alternative management systems will be carried out by sworn accountants. It shall also be clarified that all waste treatment plants are subject to authorisation or notification in accordance with the relevant provisions of the legislation in force, as well as to the obligation to have an insurance policy if they manage hazardous waste at their premises. At the same time, pre-existing provisions regarding the Hellenic Recycling Agency are immediately abolished, the content of which is overstated by the provisions of Part Four of Law 4819/2021. This is how the activation of the EEAN is fully accelerated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I shall end in two minutes. It is also clarified that the EEAN is able to finance, among other things, the production of disposable plastics. It is foreseen that the provisional definition of the Director-General of the EEAN may be made directly, as it is considered essential for the faster transition of the EEAN to its new role as set out in Law 4819/2021. The eighth part introduces provisions concerning the responsibilities of the Secretariat-General for Natural Environment and Water. In particular, the deadline for the submission of objections against the contents of forest maps, which shall be implemented within 2021, shall be extended from its expiry for four months. This is because, because of the numerous fires, several forest addresses are faced with a problem in the same way as the rehabilitation of the regions affected on the one hand and the management of the forest authorities on the other. In conclusion, the ninth part deals with other matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. It introduces a transitional provision which equals the percentages attributed to the Green Fund 50% from 70% and the Renewable Energy Saving Centre - CFP 50% of the amounts of the infringements to be collected from: (a) the Energy Inspectors to register them in the Energy Inspectors Register; and (b) the debtors and beneficiaries per energy inspection in order to manage the building inspection file for the benefit of the Renewable Sources and Energy Saving Centre. In addition to this, the limit of EUR 200,000 is abolished as the maximum amount paid annually to the CFP. Here too, let us say that the earlier arrangements will apply to the amounts of the infringements collected from 1 January 2022 onwards. Finally, a maximum of 15-9-2022 is to be extended, as the Minister explained to us, to suspend the issue of approvals for construction, permits for construction, and to carry out any construction work for a specific area of the mountainous volume of Hymettos and, more specifically, to the sections that fall within the administrative limits of the Crepe, Varis, Voulas, Vouliagmeni, Papagos, Cholargos, Ilioupoli, Greek, Argyroupolis, Painia and Glyfadas. On this point and before I finish, Mr President, I would like to add that, as is clear from everything that has been said and now, this draft law clearly promotes a number of objectives with which a long-term policy on climate change is favoured. The proposed arrangements are adapted to the best environmental practices in other Member States - Member States of the European Union and each one of them is fully compatible with the Constitution and Community law, with respect for human and environmental law. As we see, then, this is a series of provisions promoting the improvement of energy efficiency throughout the entire energy chain, with the ultimate aim of benefiting the environment, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, improving air quality and thus protecting public health. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It also lays the foundations for ensuring energy security by reducing dependence on imported energy, cutting energy costs for households and businesses, reducing energy poverty, increasing competitiveness by creating more jobs, and strengthening investment security. All these objectives include Greece, in the context of the implementation of both European policies and the national energy strategy. All these objectives are served perfectly. I am returning, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that the draft law before us, in addition to its national objectives, which I have set out in detail above, is fully in line with the provisions of Regulation 2018/1999 of the European Union, the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 and of Commission Delegated Regulation 2019/826 of 4 March 2019. It is consistent with EU law, European practices and relevant judicial decisions. I therefore urge you again to vote in favour of this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Kollia. At this point, I would also like to wish for a personal wish at Fofi Gennimata, in the belief that I am expressing all Members of Parliament, a rapid recovery from her last adventure and a rapid return to us again. I would also like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for Culture and Sport, Economics, Development and Investment, Foreign, Education and Religion, the Deputy Minister of Finance, and the Deputy Ministers of Culture and Sport submitted a draft law on 14-10-2021: "Following the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Poland in the fields of culture, education, science, sport, youth and the media", which is referred to in the relevant Standing Committee. And now I call on the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Screka. Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor, and you will have more time to put yourself, as you have said before you, on both amendments and more specifically on Amendment Nos 1105 and 96, and on Amendment No 1106 and Amendment No 97.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that I heard almost all the Members who spoke, apart from the time I was gone, because here next to a central hotel we were able today to sign a memorandum of cooperation with the Egyptian Minister for Electricity, Mr Saker. This is a memorandum of cooperation between Greece and Egypt, which defines the framework for promoting cooperation in the construction of an underwater electric cable linking the Egyptian electricity grid to the Greek electricity grid for the transport of green, clean electricity produced in Egypt and through Greece can be exported to the northern countries, that is, to Greece, and to Central Europe. As you can see, there the cost of building a photovoltaic is much more competitive than construction costs in Europe, even in Greece. So through this much lower price of green electricity we will be able to help and ensure both the stability and adequacy of the electricity network in our country, and also to diversify the sources of supply. That is how we will help our electricity flexibility, and on the other hand we will ensure that we are protecting the environment even more and that we are able to achieve our objectives and, of course, that we, as Europe, are more infiltrated into our electricity mix. I too would like, from my heart, to wish Mrs. Gennimata my best wishes. I am sure that with the capacity that distinguishes it and with the help of God she will overcome her problem and we will have it here soon and very strong. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, the well-meaning criticism, constructive criticism, when this is done and carried out by the representatives of the Anti-Population, and indeed on the substance of this, and we ask for it, because we can, in fact, improve legislative provisions and ultimately offer better work and better work in our country and the Greek citizens, because that is our goal. I understand even excessive criticism to some extent, even the lame criticism within the framework of a parliamentary controversy. But what I really can't understand is the criticism, especially from the Civic Opposition, by SYRIZA, in matters that the Greek people should forget and leave behind, because these are issues that are still fresh and remembered by the Greek people. For example, I have heard criticism of the PPC issue, and I really cannot understand how it is possible for SYRIZA Members to denounce the Government of New Democracy for the course of PPC and the choices it has made to support the main pillar of electricity production in the country and one of the main pillars of economic development in our country, when they, when they ruled, charged PPC - only in 2018 and 2019 - with EUR 2.5 billion. In other words, in 2018 PPC had 800 million losses and in 2019 it exceeded 1.5 billion losses. That is, if SYRIZA continued to rule, with the choices he had made, PPC would accumulate over a billion losses every year. And they come and speak and judge the PPC government, who took it at market value under 300 million euros! It had been under 200 million euros some time. In other words, the value of PPC, this huge organism, had come to exceed a little the value of a good kiosk in Attica! And they come to compare it with PPC today, whose stock exchange value exceeds EUR 2 billion, and when we have moved on to a 17% conversion, which will bring more than 750 million euros to the company's funds, so that it will be much stronger, so that it can move on to investments in renewable energy sources, so that it can replace the old energy sources, lignite, polluting power plants with new investments from renewable energy sources and thus strengthen its position and market share in green energy. So it will also ensure a strong future. How can there be a secure and adequate electrical system in the country without PPC being? Today it represents 65% as a market share of electricity consumption. Is it possible, then, for SYRIZA Members to come and accuse the government of the choices he has made for PPC? PPC has been saved and is now developing beyond the borders of Greece. In my village, however, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, they say: "Don't scratch on the sprinkle of tsapani." You do this every time, when you speak, because you have ruled five years, on matters that you should not talk about and leave them behind, if the world forgets and sees you with a positive eye. I see that, unfortunately, it is too late to happen. From there on, you have discussed the Special Spatial Planning for the RES and said that there is no allegedly a Special Spatial Planning for the RES. Five years that you have been running, you have commissioned a study to be carried out and completed, for the Special Spatial Plan for the RES, so that investors know where to build, what can they build, where a wind turbulence can be installed, without causing a problem in the natural environment and in the cultural environment and without causing a problem in local communities as well? You're talking about marine spatial planning. Did you do anything about the marine spatial planning for the RES? Have you promoted some marine wind support scheme? You didn't do anything at all. You asked if we've moved forward and what we've done for storage support. You said here that it is important to install electricity storage systems, green electricity. Five years you've ruled. Did you do anything about it? Have you brought some form of support, some legislative provision for the installation of storage systems in our country, such as batteries? We have tabled a scheme of support for the European Committee on Competition and the European Committee on Energy, so that we can obtain approval. We hope that this will be done by the end of the year. In fact, we have made use of EUR 450 million from the Recovery Fund to install these storage systems and not to cost so much as capital invested in the electricity system and thus benefit consumers, namely consumers, to have much more competitive electricity prices. You asked whether there are natural gas plants and how we withdraw lignite plants, without, on the other hand, having built more modern, of course, much less polluting gas plants. I ask you this. You've been five years. Did you submit any form of support, some availability mechanism, Capacity mechanism, so that investors can take the investment decision and be able today to obtain adequate supplies? On the one hand, for five years there has been no single screw into PPC's lignite plants, and as a result they are slowly withdrawn today because they cannot work, because we have said that they will be withdrawn by 2028. We didn't say that in 2021 we were trying to put them in place whenever we needed them. There are five years left without substantial interventions so that they can function as necessary and with efficiency for PPC. So don't come and talk about things that you don't care about. I understand, of course, the criticism - I repeat, even excessive criticism - but not the criticism of matters on which you, unfortunately, have very bad records. From that point on, you came and you even talked about the fires. You said: ‘What did you do for the fire-slapping areas? Have restoration projects, protection projects?’. This also applies to what you should forget, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because unfortunately fires of different sizes, smaller or larger - do not matter - occurred in your days too. And what were the results? How quickly have you responded to the protection measures and rehabilitation measures of these regions? Let me give you some examples. In the summer of 2015, we had a fire in Attica that burned five thousand acres, not too much. But it's very important. Even a tree burns, it's very important, especially when it's in a perimeter area. We're talking about five thousand acres, but in the summer of 2015. When did the anti-corrosion works start over Attica? They started in the summer of 2016, one year later. At Kineta Attica we had a fire on July 23, 2018. The projects to protect and restore the forty thousand acres that were burnt began in April 2019 and were completed in November 2019, one and a half years later. And I'm not stopping here. The fire in New Vuja and Matti started on July 23, 2018. That's where I think you've put a special weight. Anti-military and anti-corrosion works to an extent of twenty thousand acres began in early 2019 and, indeed, after intervention at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport at the time. The fires in Constantinople began in 2018 and 2019. The works started in 2021 after judicial involvement. So you can't talk and say what we did about Northern Evia or Olympia, when at the moment over sixteen forest cooperatives, over five hundred forest workers work over five hundred nights to make anti-corrosion works and in the midst of such bad weather that we have, to protect their downstream areas, the downstream settlements. They're people who come from those areas from northern Evia. So how did we do that? Did it happen on its own? No, ladies and gentlemen. We've taken action. We have taken legislative initiatives on two axes. Firstly, we have enabled the direct delegation, the rapid, direct assignment of these works by the forests concerned to forest cooperatives, we have eliminated bureaucratic obstacles and can immediately proceed to such anti-corrosion works. And that's how we've done. And not just that. On the other hand, we made use of private sector money, made use of money by those who wanted to show solidarity, by those who have increased their sense of social corporate responsibility. Companies one after the other come and spend millions, invest, grant millions to make these projects. And we didn't want any money. We wanted the play. We wanted to make use of the flexibility that the private sector has, through the supervision of the forest, with studies carried out either by the forests or by the private sector, but with the supervision of the forests so that they can immediately - once they are private and do not have these demonstrable procedures under Law 4412, i.e. the Public Procurement Act - direct the work of forest cooperatives - I repeat - in this area, in order to proceed with these projects. And it happened. Today, for the more than half of forest cooperatives, their expenses are covered by PPC, EREN, technical companies and recently by the "COCA-COLA" and many other companies, which have come and have been given an increased and intense feeling of social solidarity, corporate social responsibility to contribute. And why should we not use this money and not reduce the burden on taxpayers? A great deal has been said about our intention to reform the environmental inspection framework. So far, how many regular inspections have been carried out and only a category one in class activities in Greece, ladies and gentlemen? As you know, we have thousands of businesses, thousands of companies, tens of thousands of thousands of activities, tens of thousands of activities, which should be monitored regularly. How many people are in control of the time? Is ten thousand checked? Are five thousand checked? Are there a thousand companies in control a year? Five hundred companies are checked a year? They control less than a hundred companies a year. Less than a hundred productive activities are controlled by environmental inspectors, by public environmental auditors with regular audits each year. Specifically, we had seventy inspections last year. Do you think we should leave that? That's what we inherited from you. You didn't do anything to change that. We come and change it in a way that we believe is very right and we invite you to support and vote in favour of this proposal. Of course, all this is done with the advice and with the contribution of the World Bank and the European Commission who have worked with us for this purpose. Why have some absurd things been heard here by some colleagues who usually engage in absurdity, that we are allegedly violating European regulations and European directives with the law that we are bringing, when all this has been done in full cooperation with the European Commission and the World Bank and using the best world practices on what we have proposed. We remove a number of overlapping or even conflicting provisions that undermined legal certainty and gave legal basis for the removal of fines in the courts. The reform we are promoting is control over prevention and compliance, not the repression that ultimately does not happen and those who violate and destroy the environment, but also have an unfair competitive advantage, compared with those who are lawful and want to protect the environment and observe the law. From a barren ineffective environmental control framework we are now adopting a modern model of compliance, supplementing it with a ministerial decision that we are already preparing directly, with a view to ensuring transparency, avoiding administration arbitraryness, ensuring equality and therefore healthy competition. With the draft Presidential Decree that we are preparing for the private auditors who will come and assist the public sector, administration, controls, we will ensure that we now have systematic regular audits, as required by national and Union legislation. Of course the serious states and developed states have a strong, valid and timely environmental control system that Greece does not have, but we are also trying to change it and we are seeing resistance from you. Instead of being sick, instead of coming here and constructively suggesting some changes, you are 'not all'. That is, I think, a sterile opposition policy that does not help the country above all, because that is why we are here, all of us from all parties. Because there is no real protection without regular checks. Environmental protection is not done on paper or on paper. What is going on to date, ladies and gentlemen? There's been a lot of noise. Is there a categorisation of the infringements according to gravity? Oh, no. Is there an escalation of fines imposed on non-compliant persons? There's nothing institutionalized. The fines range from EUR 500 to EUR 2 million, without categorising the infringements and without having an institutionalised mechanism with which these fines are calculated. How do these fines go, ladies and gentlemen? We have a specific mechanism that we are introducing to the vote to define and bind those who impose fines with a specific methodology that everyone will know, will be transparent. How do the fines get in? Tell me about it. I have not seen anyone who is concerned about what we are doing today and whether or not we need improvement. Do you like what's going on today? I have heard you, the spokesman from the Communist Party of Greece, say that in the way we do, we do, we do, we help entrepreneurs to go ahead with infringements, that the fines as they enter, there are no charges, they go in the beam, there is no way, and it is not evaluated, and the proportionate imposition based on the mosque is wrong. And I'm asking you how the fines go today. You don't know why there's no institutionalised procedure. It is in the control and discretion of the verifier. There's an internal algorithm, it says, internally, uninstitutionalized, that we're looking to find out who he is. There is no deadline for drawing up an autopsy report. After the performance of an autopsy report, the audited party shall submit its views within at least five days without setting the ceiling. There is no deadline for the completion of the control, with the exception of large industrial installations where it must be completed within four months, due to a corresponding Union provision, that is to say, Europe, and standard practice is eight to twelve months in the end. For other controls, apart from industrial installations, there is no deadline for completion. It's all in the air. All infringements shall be transmitted to the prosecutor, regardless of whether they fall under the criminal code or not. And the smallest violations, and they're being sent to the D.A. What do we do? We're changing everything. The infringements are classified in four categories: low, moderate, significant and very serious. Do you disagree? You want more rating categories? Why don't you suggest something? There's nothing to be categorized at the moment. We divide them into four categories: low, moderate, significant and very serious. I hear suggestions. For the first two categories which are the largest volume, a conformity plan shall be drawn up, which must be implemented within four to six months, not more than one year, and exceptionally through a very strict procedure for very complex projects up to three years, with the introduction of specific conditions. Is that unprecedented? You as an administration when you governed the country, SYRIZA, did you not give large industry a prolongation of compliance over two and over three years? You gave it. What do we do? We're coming and we're taking care of this. It will not be done if the auditor wants to or does not want to do so. There's gonna be a rule when and how it can be done. For the two most serious categories of infringements, a direct fine is therefore imposed in the event of ongoing infringements. Firstly, even in the low categories, which are of low and moderate importance, where we have anticipated a compliance plan after the checksheet, which should be checked after four to six months and if the controlled person has not complied, then the axe will fall, then the fine will be imposed. If there is a second continuation of non-compliance, a fine shall be imposed everywhere in all infringements, whether moderate or serious or very serious. For the two heavier categories, however, a direct fine is imposed. Therefore fines are imposed on ongoing infringements, infringements involving a direct risk to public health, which threaten with immediate adverse effects on the environment and infringements that are criminal offences. The scope of the fines shall be adjusted according to the importance of the infringement: low, moderate, significant and very significant. The fines are calculated on the basis of specific criteria and are linked to the annual turnover of the activity. This is an optimal global practice that we are implementing, the four categories and within these categories a proportionate fine depending on the company's turnover. It cannot enter the same fine in a refinery and the same fine to enter a gas station. That's self-evident. This is not the case today. The maximum amount of fines is increased, it is not reduced. We are not abolishing fines, ladies and gentlemen. We're increasing them. Up to 2 million was the ceiling. Up to 5 million we set the roof today. Specific criteria shall be laid down to assess the gravity of the infringement, such as the nature of the infringement, the amount of excess of the institutionalised emission limits, not blindly, the relapse and the history of compliance, the behaviour and the degree of cooperation of the controlled body, other lighting or aggravating factors, and whether the infringement is subject to criminal penalties, in accordance with existing legislation. It is planned, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not in the air - today that we are talking about what infringements are subject to criminal sanctions under the current legislation that is currently in force. Of course, the amount of the fine is linked to the annual turnover of the company. The verification procedure shall also be specified in detail so that it is carried out in a uniform manner using standardised control sheets. We standardize the forms used by auditors, why? To ensure that all controlled persons are checked in the same way and not checked according to the appetite, according to the availability or knowledge that the verifier has. What are the steps? In the field of autopsy, clear steps are defined. Temporary control report: Determine a milestone within one month, not arbitrary, not in the air. 14 days for the apology, which may be extended for another 14 days, if requested by the controlled person. A final audit report within forty-five days of the apology, not nowhere. Completion of the final autopsy report within six months for major industrial installations and four months for other activities. We're sorting things out. Only violations under the Criminal Code are passed on to the prosecutor, not all of them. The frequency of checks shall be determined for category B projects as well. In other words, we are extending the scope for which the controlled persons should be checked, for which commercial activities, productive activities, activities to be subject to control, to be monitored regularly, and until now only those of Category I projects. It is stated that, if a guarantee is imposed on GDP, the reasons for decline will also be mentioned in GDP. The reasons for the failure of the financial guarantee - unlike what is currently in force - must also be mentioned - which falls by decision of the Director-General for the Environment and not the Minister, of course, mentioned as currently. What does the Opposition say? He insulted us because, he says, we're not sending all the violations to the prosecutor. I ask: is this serious criticism? That is, firstly: you understand the burden caused by the referral of thousands of minor cases to the prosecutor every year to so many prosecutors and judicial authorities as well as to auditing bodies, which almost all, based on the experience we have and knowledge now, because this practice has been applicable and applied in our country for years, ultimately end up in the archives after thousands of pages of documents and memoirs have been exchanged. So what do we say? Simple common sense. Only the suspected infringements should be referred to the prosecutor as may constitute criminal offences, as specified in Article 3 of Law 4042/2012. And for those who don't understand and continue not to understand what I mean, is it possible if a citizen does a violation, passes by an orange - is it a violation - this violation by the Trochomore, after imposing the administrative fine - then send it to the prosecutor? That is what we say, the very simple one. The representatives of SYRIZA and the parliamentary representative and the rapporteur have said that the checks will now be completely subjective. You said that the evaluation to be credible needs to be carried out on measurable, controlled, technical and objective criteria. And I ask: that's what we're doing. Why don't you come here and support or, anyway, why don't you come and help with a constructive proposal to change something in the context of what you want? Because that's exactly what we've legislated. SYRIZA's representative also added, referring to the criteria, that what we are doing is not done in any European country. That's a mistake. What we have standardised, planned and brought to a vote I repeat that we have designed them in cooperation with the European Commission and with its contribution and with the know-how it has in order to implement the best practices currently applied at European level and to be able to change our country, because that is what we are trying to do. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said that we are establishing an endless procedure when we are coming and setting milestones in which the various parts of the procedure will be completed, and now they are not there. He also said, like other representatives of counter-population, that it is not right to link the fine to the annual turnover. What's your proposal? How should we impose fines? I'm listening. You have a suggestion. What's the best way? Isn't it a good and proportionate way depending on the cigarette being the penalty? I should also like to inform you that the polluter pays principle is served and applied through the bill that we have brought to the vote. Apart from that, we have brought in provisions concerning waste management and the operation of the EEAN. It has the potential, inter alia, to finance the production of disposable plastics. Why are we doing this? Because we want to make use of revenues from the Greek Agency Recycling, to finance investments in disposable plastic companies. Because we want to enable these companies to move on to the necessary investments and to change their production and thus to remain sustainable, not to lose jobs and contribute to the national economy as well as to our society. We therefore want to make use of revenues from the fees that go into disposable plastics, to lead them exactly to those companies that are being put through the restrictions that we are legislating to reduce the products they produce to change their production process and to remain viable. And I think that this is something you should support. In the Antitrust case and PPC, what can I say about all this? It was heard by the SYRIZA rapporteur that PPC's lignite production is supposedly not linked to the energy we have established here and we have agreed that PPC should sell. First of all, it is completely linked. It's a percentage of lignite production. In particular, we have stated that for the fourth quarter of 2021, eight hundred ninety-three yards, for the first quarter of 2022, seven hundred and seventy-two yards, for the second quarter of 2022, five hundred and fifteen yards, and these will be reduced as much as lignite production is reduced due to the withdrawal of lignite plants. In other words, in 2022 less than two thousand gallons of lignite production will be available through the stock exchanges, either Greek or international. But why does PPC go and sell to international stock exchanges? First of all, this was an agreement that solved a problem, in a case where Greece had been convicted for decades. Why do we also give the opportunity to sell to international stock exchanges? Because it first starts with the Greek. Since it cannot, it will certainly go to international for us to resolve the problem of the Greek condemnation. And how many are these quantities? They're two thousand son-of-a-bitchs. How many quantities were agreed by you as a government to be sold through NOME contests? From ten thousand to sixteen thousand yards a year, eight and ten times more. But the lignite production, how much were those quarters? Do you know that the quantities sold by PPC in NOME auctions were greater than the total production not only of lignite, but also of hydroelectric and natural gas plants? And you come here and give us up! Listen: You forced PPC to sell quantities to its competitors and to traders, which eventually exported this quantity to the northern border of the country, to the foreign countries, to sell the energy with 25, 30 and 35 euros, when PPC now sold 160 euros to the stock exchanges and sell ten thousand and sixteen thousand giants more energy than they produced all its lignite, all its hydroelectric and all its natural gas plants. And you come here and you talk! I told you, don't scratch yourself in the sack of chop. You must forget your governance, forget what you are doing and forget about it, and the Greek people see you with a different eye. Don't remember them, it doesn't interest you. You're talking about removing energy costs. You say you made a 12% discount. Who? You proceeded to a 12% discount on those who paid in time. Who pays in time? The poor guy who has no money to pay the PPC account? So the person who paid in time paid a 12% discount and the one who was stalling over ten days on the power bill paid 12% more than the energy. So the poorer paid 12% more expensive energy than the one who had better financial comfort and paid the bill in time. It was a terrible social policy by PPC, which, of course, also went bankrupt and PPC eventually, which accumulated billions of losses. So how many years would he do that? How many years would PPC have gone in, and how much did the gas cost then, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? How much was the cost of oil? How much did the barrel cost? Was he approaching 40 bucks? Was the gas cost from the cheapest in the last decade? Now we have ten times an increased cost compared to then. You're talking about 12% discount and we, with the measures we announced, make a 60% discount on the bills. We make five times a bigger discount than you did. So you can't come and give up on us. And we do it to all Greeks, not just to the weak, to all households. And give examples of an increase in energy costs in businesses. Mr. Tsipras saw the productive classes. I did not see him announcing any measures to reduce electricity. Something's been crippled to reduce, he says, the special ending of oil and gas. Is the current going to do anything about it? The oven burns natural gas to bake the bread? I'm asking you, because you talked about ovens, does the oven burn oil to bake the bread? It's hot. Are you going to make a suggestion about the current? Because until now you have been talking, talking, talking, and talking about the most important thing that is the electricity, the electricity that everyone uses, you haven't said anything. We have said that 300 million will give the state a subsidy. PPC and other providers will use over 200 million, a total of half a billion we have secured to cover the valuation. Half a billion for a year? No, ladies and gentlemen, half a billion for the last four months alone. Is there a little 500 million aid through state subsidies and through PPC and other private providers? Is the aid of 500 million for just a quarter of the year small? In other words, it amounts to 1.5 billion at yearly level if it continued, which I hope will not continue. Of course, we have for the first quarter and four months of next year. We haven't left them in their luck. This is to understand what those who have ruled and what this government is doing, and that is why you are listening - and I do not think that we are listening to it, but you are listening to it too - "I am glad that Tsipras does not govern and Mitsotakis governs in these difficult times in this country." But what did we do about business? Why, for businesses, can we make an energy subsidy? Isn't that State aid, Mr. Comrade? You've been through ministers, some of you. What did we do? We did something very important. We have reduced taxes directly and indirectly to make them more competitive. We reduced HISPIA by 22%. We have reduced the tax rate on natural persons from 22% to 9% for income up to EUR 10,000. We have reduced the corporate tax rate from 28% to 24% and moved to 22%, which is from 1-1-2022. We're reducing taxes to support business. We reduced the withholding tax rate for dividends from 10% to 5%. We reduced the tax advance on natural persons carrying on business by 100%, which you did, to 55%. Here's how we help business. We haven't left them on their own. We have reduced the insurance contributions by one unit for all employees and by an additional three units for private sector employees for 2021 and 2022. We abolished the special solidarity levy for the years 2021 and 2022 in the private sector. Of course, we also abolished the tax on parental benefits and donations for every type of asset, up to 800,000 euros, that is, almost all of Greece. What did the SYRIZA government do? Instead of raising the tax-free threshold, in order for the citizens to pay less, they took it down then, and the poor also paid tax. Even the poor, who in the former New Democracy government did not pay tax, paid a tax on SYRIZA. It increased the tax rates for all taxpayers, with the maximum rate rising from 42% to 45%. It increased the tax rates for rent income. It increased the special solidarity levy rates. Increase the tax advance from 55% to 100%. It increased taxation in enterprises from 26% to 29%. Increase supplementary ENVIRONMENT. It increased VAT from 23% to 24%, when they were allegedly cut for the poor and unjust, while increasing taxes on the other hand, paying higher taxes. It also imposed new taxes. You remember, then, the wine tax, the coffee tax, the electronic cigarette tax. That's what you did. And what is your criticism of what we're doing? ‘But will ELEPE be viable?’ Yes, ladies and gentlemen, ELAP will be viable. With 400 million of the polluter income it will have a cumulative surplus of at least 170 million this year. A deficit of 270 million last year will have a surplus of 170 million this year, a positive change of over 500 million euros. And yes - the representative of SYRIZA is missing, the rapporteur, who is from western Macedonia - EUR 30-35 million, then the lignite municipalities, 40-45 million will take this year. And we're trying to find a solution for the district heating, which is a problem because they've put electrodes on and increased the cost of electricity, and we need to find a way to cover them so that they don't increase the cost to those who are heated by district heating. Because for all of us we think and try to find a solution within the scope of the possibilities, of course, and stand by and try to do our best. And if we make mistakes here, we're gonna fix them, but from you we don't hear solutions and corrections. The new 'EXXOCOCONOMO': I am pleased that Mr Famelos has referred positively to the way in which we have designed the new 'EXOCOCONOMOTO', and yes we have, Mr President, realised that the raw materials of course have been increased and that the 180 euro ceiling, which we have set per square metre, of the budget that may have a house to upgrade, that is to say, a house with a hundred square meters today, as we have already published - and that is why we have done - the guide to the new 'EXOCONOPOTO' has a limit of 18 000 budgets to move towards an energy upgrade, which will increase it to 200 euros, so that it has a limit of 20,000 euros. Because the raw materials have actually increased for a hundred square block house. Overall, the limit is 28,000 euros. So a house, no matter how square, will be able to spend up to 28,000 euros. This is the roof so that it can proceed with an energy upgrade, and of course it is intended to upgrade fifty thousand homes. Of course it is a new "EXOXOCOMOVO", with much more fair criteria, transparent criteria, abolishing the time hierarchy, criteria that have to do with the cost of the saved kilowatt. What does that mean? Anyone who spends money and achieves better savings has a higher score than the one who spends more money and has less savings. So what did we do in the new "EXECONOMY"? We have implemented the provisions of the European directive, which we are now coming to legislate and include in Greek legislation. We did it when we planned the new "EXECONOMY". But it is not just economical criteria. They are criteria that have to do with society. Multitexts, families who have a disabled person, who can be home all day and spend a lot of energy, so pay a large account of energy products and energy services. They have extra molecules to enable them to upgrade their home and spend less energy. A single-parent family, too. For weak households, for the first time we are establishing a specific subcategory of EUR 100 million, so that the most vulnerable, with a great subsidy, and for the same participation with a guaranteed financial instrument from the state, can be energy-intensively upgraded and give a permanent solution to the problem of the energy account. And so we're finally helping through support and subsidy for the piece of electricity. What are we doing about the oil and gas fossil fuels? We are more than double the heating allowance from 80 million to 170 million euros. For a house in the center of Thessaloniki, ladies and gentlemen you are from Thessaloniki, for a four-member family with a heating allowance of EUR 212 that will exceed EUR 400 this year will reach the same house in the heating allowance. We're not only stopping there. We went through cooperation with the PPA, which will also work with the other companies - suppliers to give a better price of gas, because it has better contracts and it has bought cheaper gas so that ultimately this discount can be transferred to consumers. A few minutes ago, the Greeks also announced that they were going to a 5% discount on the starting price for heating oil and that they also proceed to twelve interest-free instalments, at no cost, they bear the costs of repaying the quantities that consumers will buy. I repeat, twelve instalments at no cost, which will be covered by the 'ELELANDS', so as to help households. We are always talking about those who cannot overcome this cost, who unfortunately have increased it and are burdened with trying to warm up their family. So all this comes and is bound up with the Energy Efficiency Bill, ladies and gentlemen, which is, of course, the transition to a new era both for the environment and for our own society. Once again, we are practically proving how the government, Mr Mitsotakis, with our political and explicit legislative will, is now acting immediately and effectively in order to ensure tomorrow in the next generation. The bill is, first of all, about achieving national energy savings targets. Secondly, to strengthen healthy competition in the energy market for the benefit of the final consumer. Thirdly, modernising the environmental inspection framework, as I have told you. Fourthly, the granting of an extension to correct errors and to submit administrative objections to the forest maps that we have previously discussed. Fifthly, the necessary arrangements to ensure the penetration of renewable energy sources and the efficient operation of the electricity market. Sixth, additional clarifications in relation to the management of the EEAN. So we think it is a bill that really offers too much to this place that helps. With regard to the question by the honourable Member, Mr Heta, concerning Amendment No 1105, I would like to say that Article 1 describes the suspension of the authorisation of wind power stations in areas of northern Euboea. First of all, we are revoking existing production licences. In other words, there are applications for production licences which had been authorised earlier. What do we do? We're on parole. For how long? We've mentioned it. At the moment, there is the Development Committee, under Mr Beno, which plans in cooperation with local actors and with the local society the new productive model of northern Euboea. There, then, everyone together will design and reconstruct the productive model so as to ensure the sustainability and resilience of society towards the challenges of climate change, against the challenges posed by the catastrophic fires, so that they remain in their villages, remain in their cities and do not leave there. Therefore, through this plan, the uses of land will be identified, the activities that will go ahead will be promoted, and where they will be promoted, so that - I repeat - we will have the best results for those regions from this consultation. So, as far as the means of producing renewable energy are concerned, such as wind turbines and photovoltaics, and those for northern Evia will be designed through this committee, under Mr Beno, in cooperation with residents and local bodies. I therefore call on you to vote on it. It's a very fair and structured arrangement that helps. From there on, I would also like to refer to Article 2, in Amendment No 1106, where we are giving an opportunity and doing something that is very serious and very important to the energy-intensive consumers, namely those productive activities, such as heavy industry, which consume huge amounts of electricity. We are therefore able, beyond the increase from one megawatt to three megawatts, which we have already announced and adopted the relevant ministerial decision, to build a photovoltaic that is built on either a plot or a remote area, but it will be connected by direct electrical connection with production only for self-production, only for self-consumption at the same time, without sending a single electron to the system, so that they can also obtain conditions to build it, even if it is saturated in the area. So they can build such a means of production, self-consume and have very low energy prices and of course green energy. This was not the case, it had not been done by the previous government, we are coming and we are doing so, but without limit. In other words, they can build as large a photovoltaic as they need, even a wind generator and transport green electricity directly, by direct cables, to their own production activity and thus be able to make use of the sun or wind, so that they have lower costs and green energy. We also increase by 30 megawatts the installed power of photovoltaics for energy communities in Crete. It was a request that was fair and we come and we implement it. In addition, Article 10 does something that is very important. ELAP shall have revenue and expenses, shall have inputs and outputs. This special account has revenue from EMFF, as well as from the electricity of renewable energy sources, which sells it through the stock exchange in the market. It costs it has the cost of the differential surcharge it pays to the producers of RES that have specific feeds. Now that the price of electricity on the wholesale market is very accurate there are RES which produce energy much cheaper than the wholesale price. The difference, this revenue ultimately has to be made by ELAP, because we no longer have to pay a different fee to these RES, but has revenue from them from the moment it sells its energy to greater value than it actually gives them, this revenue is being legislated here for ELAP to be able to invoice it, so that it can, of course, contribute to the viability of the account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u190	Thank you too, Minister. Although I had announced that, in your speech, the full-day procedure will be completed, I will give Mr Famello, as a parliamentary representative, with the request not to create a Ping-Pong. Obviously, and the Minister will answer. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for absolutely three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, thank you very much. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure and as a parliamentarian, I take the floor for two statements. First of all, Minister, I would suggest in this debate and in that which has been evolving over the last year that we should at least maintain a minimum credibility. You have accused us of not putting forward proposals, even though you have brought all the debate and many articles out of consultation within three days. Minister, I would like to remind you of something that the House knows, that the amendments and the environmental audits came from the proposals of counter-population and non-governmental organisations, and there is proof of this, and that the Minutes and the public sphere where they have been put forward. In fact, you accused us of saying that we would not go to the prosecutor and that you would come to page 4 of the legislators in Legislative Decree 2 of 1105 and add a paragraph from you, Mr Minister, which says that if the law provides for criminal sanctions, the act of a certificate of infringement is sent to the public prosecutor. Minister, you've signed it and added it. Why? Because he was gone, Minister. So either we are indisputable - which does not result - or, Minister, you have not finally read either the legislation or the amendment or the legislative legislation. To make it clear who makes suggestions and who doesn't. Otherwise, you wouldn't put it in legislation, Minister. And you're asking us what kind of article is going on. With 28 of Law 1650 we are telling you why we must also inform you of the basic legislation on the environment. Because you said that we did not read and made no proposals, Mr President. I had to clarify it. He's in law school. Let's get this straight. Write it down in the Minutes and I'll see you here. For the audit article, you'll come back here again and make changes. For the article on forest maps, you will come back here again and you will extend to objections, and I believe that both recycling and EOAN will come back to make changes. As for PPC, you are accusing us of the loss of consistency of those who were in the course of SYRIZA's governance. May I remind you of the widening of the social tariff which doubled the spread for vulnerable social groups, that is, the range of beneficiaries? May I remind you of the Reunification Fund? Or do you want me to remind you today of what we would do that we mentioned in our position of 39% sky downwards in the procurement companies announced yesterday by Professor Capros at the conference we were together, at which you have not intervened? Why did you ask what Alexis Tsipras would do today, if it were government, for the electricity in the bakery, for the consumers. It was 39% skydown profits. What for? Because you don't regulate the market, you don't control it and you don't monitor it. And you know what other Alexis Tsipras would do, where you're in a hurry to be Prime Minister, and he's gonna be a prime minister? Because you ask what he would do if he had the rule. He would not sell PPC and would even grant it free of charge, as you do. But what I have to say, Minister, to keep it, because we did not see it in the Minutes and we have to keep it, is this. The political responsibility for losing public property, as well as the responsibility of PPC's administration, will not be omitted. It will remain and we have already formulated this in the public speech. And you're in charge too. For the increases that are now coming to all accounts underneath are written "with Mitsotakis - Skreka signature". In governance SYRIZA, the current has been cut mid-term, beyond the social tariff, beyond the Reunification Fund. Energy poverty has been reduced and these are officially registered, but on the rule of Mitsotakis - Screka, the increases will have your signatures, as will the sale of public property, and that will remain and will be judged for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Famele. Now the Minister has the floor in order to complete the long-term process in this critical bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u193	You don't hear my advice, Mr. Colleague, who I tell you they're not talking about rope in the house of the hanger. I told you a little differently before. I misunderstood it if you understand it now. PPC was to be sold by Mr. Tsipras. And not only would he sell it because he had signed it and voted on it in the memorandum, but he had also entered an income of just 100 million euros for 17%, proof of your government's intention. Because you may now say what you want, but the writings stay. And it's written, it's not oral. As far as energy reductions and costs are concerned, I do not think you will come back and say that for gas increases in Europe and in the world of electricity the Greek Government is to blame, because I do not think this is a serious criticism. That's probably evidence that you're out of reality, and that's dangerous. Because when one is out of reality, of course he cannot find the right solutions to be able to support and help Greek consumers. I repeat: 12% the consistency discount at that time when at the time we had the cheapest oil, the cheapest gas, much cheaper pollutants. Five euros then did the tone of carbon dioxide, 60 euros, now the tone of carbon dioxide. Everything was cheaper and PPC went in two and a half billion if you understand the number. He went in over a billion a year. And you come here and say what? That you achieved something? But there wouldn't be PPC. Of course no one bought it. Who would buy a company that was going in, ladies and gentlemen, one billion a year? Secondly, you say that some companies have profits or have no profits. Listen to me. We are absolute in what we have asked for the suppliers. Everyone at the moment, at this critical juncture, at the moment of the international energy crisis, should support Greek households and especially the most vulnerable, and we will do so, ladies and gentlemen, you do not want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following to this House: 1. The Ministers for Development and Investment, Economics, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Citizen Protection, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, and Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law on 14-10-2021: ‘Reform and modernisation of the regulatory framework for the organisation and functioning of rural trade, arrangements for the pursuit of leisure activities and the simplification of the framework of activities in education, improvements to the curriculum legislation and other provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Ministers of Culture and Sport, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Justice and the Deputy Minister of Finance tabled a draft law on 14-10-2021: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America regarding the imposition of import restrictions on archeological and ethnoological categories of the Hellenic Republic". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the amendment of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency’, an adaptation to Regulation 2018/1999/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the governance of the Energy Union and the Climate Action and on Commission Delegated Regulation 2019/826/EU of 4 March 2019 on the amendment of Annexes VIII and IX to Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the content of comprehensive assessments of energy efficiency and cooling potential and related energy efficiency arrangements in the building sector, as well as on the strengthening of Renewable Energy and Competition in the electricity market’. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. As I had already announced for two hours, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment 1103/94 by Members of the JRC Parliamentary Group. The vote will take place on Wednesday, 20 October 2021, at 11 o'clock in the morning. After the roll-call vote, the vote on the draft law will be followed by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. I would like to point out that tonight's vote includes the principle of the draft law, sixty articles and five amendments, as well as the farewell article. The sixth amendment will be voted on Wednesday at 11 a.m. The five vote will therefore be taken at six this evening. Make sure that you have voted for all sixty-eight fields included in the vote. I would ask you here to open the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u195	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u196	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u197	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on ‘Amendment of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency’, an adaptation to Regulation 2018/1999/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the governance of the Energy Union and the Climate Action and to Commission Delegated Regulation 2019/826/EU of 4 March 2019 on the amendment of Annexes VIII and IX to Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the content of the comprehensive assessments of the potential for efficient heating and cooling’ and related arrangements on energy efficiency in the building sector, as well as the strengthening of Renewable Energy and Competition in the electricity market, was accepted by a majority in principle and on articles. The vote on Amendment No 1103 and a special 94, and on the whole of the bill will take place on Wednesday 20 October at 11 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-14-S1-commons.u198	With the consent of the House at 20.32 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 15 October 2021 and 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
