ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 84-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its 3rd session of Thursday, 8 April 2021 with regard to the vote on all draft laws were ratified by the Bureau:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Cooperation Protocol between the Hellenic Fire Corps and the Cyprus Fire Service pursuant to the Agreement of 4 June 2003 between the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation between the two countries in matters of their competence’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the field of health’. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Monday 12 April 2021. A. Update first-round questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 628/29-32021 by Mr Georgios Amanatidis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Mastiga the manipulated struggles". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 636/31-3-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Anna Vageias - Kilaidonis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Urgent urgency should be urgently vaccinated against COVID -19, the residents of the earthquake areas of Larissa". 3. The question under number 633/29-32021 by MP B2' West Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nandias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The immediate planning for decommissioning and the last high-voltage airline from the Municipality of Agios Anargyrou - Kamaterou and their replacement with high-voltage underground cables". 4. The Question No 651/5-2021 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct restoration of injustice and compensation for farmers - peach producers in Larissa for the damage they suffered since the 2020 frost." 5. Mr Georgios Logiades, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. B. Updated second-round questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Evangelos Liakou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The developments of the Triasios Land freight centre." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 638/1-4-2021 of the SYRIZA Deputy Second Western Attica - Progressive Alliance Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Possible sale of the Greek Defence Systems Hypothesis plant". 3. The question raised by Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: 'Will the Government remove the sections of Elias from the computer?'. 4. The question by number 655/5-2021 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The permanentisation of all contract workers in the fields of cleanliness and preservation of primary health care structures (PHS) of the 5th Health Region (HS)". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The olive oil is transformed into an unhealthy product through the distortions of Nutri - Score". 6. The question asked by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health, on "Actions of the Ministry of Health to grant - utilization of the two buildings of IKA Minas and Hersonissos to strengthen primary health care in Heraklion". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Implementation of the diversion of the Platy River and its consortia of improvement". 8. The question by No 656/5-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Professional rights of graduates of AEI and TEI Library". 9. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Multiplification: Rescue jobs only through the immediate start of land restoration in Kozani and Florina". 10. The question by number 642-4-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct risk of disappearance, once again, of the Elias Prefecture from the map of higher education". 11. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Scanning outdated bus rental at their purchase price'. 12. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, Member of the European Parliament, on the subject of "Danger from the rejection of used self test for COVID -19". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under No 650/5-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of "In a dead end, the dynamic export industry of the mucosa is at risk of extinction". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 4378/19-2-2021 of SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Opacience, inadequate preparation of the ESS, problems in the development of vaccinations and the need for a new "mixture" of health measures." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Serve the future of workers in the special employment programme of four thousand long-term unemployed in the public health sector.” 3. The question asked by SYRIZA by MP II - the Progressive Alliance of Mrs Theodoras (Doros) Augeris to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Intensive recognition of the heroic effort of the health workers lost, the support of the state to the relatives of the workers - contractors of the National Health System (NSH) who lost their lives in the battlefield against COVID -19." 4. Question No 3550/26-1-2021 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Heracleon Association of Change Movements to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Accommodating improvement plans: are many to be ignored...".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the timely questions to be discussed. [[The above-mentioned document is lodged in the minutes and reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. Huh?]] The first will be discussed under number 644/4-2021, the second time question of the first cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Complete opacity in the issues of guarding and accompanying vulnerable objectives". The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, will answer. Ladies and gentlemen, because the mask process is very difficult, you will have the opportunity to take the step to facilitate the debate. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a few days after you took up your duties, the Athenian News Agency said that you had made a decision to release three hundred police officers from the guarding of persons. Three days later a report comes out on a police website, which speaks, even taking pictures of some former ministers, about major reactions. In January 2020, I put a question to your Ministry, where I asked two questions. The first was how many policemen were assigned to the security of vulnerable targets two months before the election, how many were two months later, to check what was done before and after, and then by category how many police officers and from what services are available to keep and accompany the vulnerable targets. Unfortunately, the Ministry's answer was disappointing. On the basis of certain provisions, the Ministry invoked the second question that I raised, on the basis of which they had no application at all. And I'm back. In a second response, on 2 April 2020, in short, without invoking any provision, the Ministry, in general and abstractly invoking that if it provided the general information I requested - because I asked for general information - it would be possible to draw conclusions that would affect the vulnerability of the security system for persons and installations. In short, in two consecutive answers, the Ministry said to a member of the National Representation: "You have nothing to do with getting involved in these things, take your box to play further." I have now asked you a timely question which we are debating today on the basis of the well-known recent events with the telefederalist who have caused saliva to the public. Withdrawal by your decision of keeping the person concerned. I would finally like there to be some transparency, of course, while preserving the necessary secrecy that has to be found in these things when it comes to safeguarding and accompanying vulnerable objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kamine, dialogue with you is feasible and contributes to better and better information for the House. Your insistence to ask is that, as you said, you did not get any answers. You'll allow me to put it another way. Answers you also received correct answers. However, the problem you want to raise has not been solved and it now seems more mature to be discussed. Let us not lose a minute in a debate on a pretext for national security and so on, because all this is true. I mean classified. But I repeat the problem isn't there. The problem is who is entitled to safeguard - what you have asked with the questions you have asked - how long, how long, what the institutional framework that ensures the exercise of the right best in the interests of the large majority. Let me say a little introductory, the security of persons, the demand for security right now in our country is universal and growing and of course developing dynamically worldwide. In Greece in particular, I will explain why. There are two major phenomena, talking about the security of individuals and infrastructures that define the new situation: The new terrorism that starts on 11 September and the increased violence against the political system brought about by the rise in populism over the last decades. The peculiarity of Greece is the tsunami of anger from bankruptcy, the eruption of violence that even cloaked parliamentary cloaks with the scum of Golden Dawn. You know the last thing about why you were a victim at that time and you received police protection. To a certain extent for some time being a public person meant being a target. The years have passed, but fear on the one hand and violence practices have not been eliminated. There are active violent minorities. We often see incidents in demonstrations that are clashes, battles. We learn facts horrific in universities, stadiums, in public places. There is, therefore, violence today, less, however, still existing. And unfortunately, even public figures or party formations in the mis-popular speech make a career. The parallel, increasingly growing public sphere of social networks often strengthens these attitudes. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u6	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. And I come to our main theme. In this new environment of violence and security demands, on the other hand, the institutional framework in Greece remains old. That is because 2000 was obviously enough, despite the attempts at improvement at times, but today, that is now completely obsolete. I would remind you that the body of the institutional framework is the presidential decree of 141 1991, and at the moment almost all of the regulations, which at that time seemed very reasonable, nowadays leave ground for failures and space to'mouses' in public space. The questions we are concerned with are: Is the quality of security services sufficient, or many times limited or degenerated, to services that are available to prisoners? How is staff trained and retrained? How long has the staff stayed in this service? Answer. No, quality is not enough, it needs a special body of the police, which will have continuing education and that will be legislated. Next question: Is it enough for the police force to cover security requests? Answer: No, it's not enough. It should be ten times the power and constantly growing, because people are reasonably afraid - not always justified - or consider themselves threatened. Here I say it again, we are dealing with an asymmetrical phenomenon of supply and demand. The supply of protection is a very small fraction of demand. Every Minister of Citizen Protection has been trying to get people out of the "officials", as they are said, to put him in front-line police services, what we are talking about to take the police to the streets. We all - and I first - are, as you said before, in the first two months - all of us, saying 'I made a huge effort', saying that we did it and we go back to ourselves, because demand pressure is a social phenomenon and is not solved by orders. I am therefore fully responsible for political responsibility, and I believe that I am expressing all the ministers involved, saying that we have a responsibility that we did not change earlier. We have made an attempt since the first day I have been in the position of the Minister of Civil Protection, but all the proposals have been small aspirins where they need very large sections. In the question you are addressing me, Mr Kamine, you are asking us to identify the measures that will improve the system by adding efficiency and transparency. I answer you with ten words: we shall now boldly legislate with imagination and very dialogue. Today's debate is the beginning of this consultation. We will not discover the wheel, we will carry good practices from other European countries that have acted on this issue earlier. It's very simple. Since the police are not enough and should not be spent on this objective, we need to resort to the market, to security services provided by private companies. I ask questions for debate: why do the ministries and the public authorities need so many police forces and do not go to private security companies, creating mixed schemes that will save police forces? Even the House in most European countries keeps its own resources and mixed facilities. The House with its own resources and procedures, in cooperation with the police, decides which Members and when and how they are entitled to safekeeping. In no European country is the protection of MPs an ex officio right. The same applies to privacy matters. So something very simple is needed: to legislate the maximum number, the number of this body of guards. Let's decide and let's get this over with, let's close down there. A change in the number will only take place in exceptional cases, with increased guarantees, when there are security crises. All over Europe, the security service decides which persons will be placed in custody. In other words, there is no possibility for the applicant to choose. Even in the European Parliament, the provision of a vehicle for escorts is exceptionally defined by express and specific provisions. In Europe, too, there is a clear distinction between full-time and dispersed storage, provided only in the performance of these tasks which benefit the services. The above, I repeat, are thoughts, are practices that are being implemented and I think we need it. Finally, something that brings us closer to the issue of the preservation of journalists and media. Greek legislation provides for the maximum number of staff employed and means of escort per category of officials. This good practice needs new explicit rules once again increased guarantees for exceptional overrun. Mr Kamine, ladies and gentlemen, the unconscious unorthodox writings that appear in the public eye on the issue of storage have nothing to do with supposed scandals and favors. Everything is done with extreme formality. However, the essence remains that we are dealing with an unbearable and very pressing system that has become ineffective and wants institutional areas, that is, it wants decisions that touch all public space and all state officials. We will bring forward a draft law and proposals for an impartial, increased efficiency, stable accountability and transparency of the administration. I hope that there will be a productive dialogue here and that everyone will be able to get to grips with the circumstances. I think no one wants shadows left for the operation of the political and party system. And, of course, no one wants the police, the physical and political leadership of the police, to be abused by the protection services by people who make very poor, extremely ruthless use of these services. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u8	And I, Minister, thank you. Mr. Kamines has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, as Mr. Paschos Mandravelis informs us, a leading journalist of "Kathimerini", anyone looking back to the website of the secret service of the United States of America will learn how many policemen guard the President, the House, the White House, foreign embassies, etc. Here in Greece, nor the general figure can we be informed. And you also come back and say that these answers were correct. It is not possible for the National Representation to give any information but absolutely quantitative or qualitative. I hear with great interest that there will now be a special service which will also undertake the special training of those responsible for these tasks. Why? Why do we learn, when each Minister takes up his duties, how many are gone or how many he plans to bring back to the street, as you have said, but we never know how many are left. I mention the previous ones from your predecessors. Mr. Dendias just entered into 2013, released four hundred and sixty people. He brought them back to EL.AS. On the way. Mr. Kikilis had just announced that they would return three and a half thousand. Mr. Panusus brought a thousand cops back. Mr. Toskas then said the police are neither servants nor appetizers of some. This last incident, which has happened, has stumbled public opinion, because public opinion - because there must be the necessary secrecy - does not have the right to know who is guarded and for what reasons, but this sudden decision to remove the guard against this person in full - and that is why he himself appealed to the Council of State too - is leaving us in the best interest because we understand that the Minister does not in fact control what is happening in his ministry in this sensitive area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Allow me, Madam President, to speak a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u10	Yes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u11	I raised the previous amendments to Presidential Decree 191 of 41. Our amendments reveal two phenomena, which have led me to curiosity. This is the third time you've been in this position, the Minister of Civil Protection. The Presidential Decree 191 of 41 was amended to these provisions for the first time in 2001 by the Presidential Decree 309 of you, then by Mr. Pavlos in 2008, after you and then by Mr. Teddy. And there's a phenomenon. The procedure envisaged at the present time and that applied from the outset was to provide the escort or security for the Chief of EL.AS. his decision following an opinion of a special committee involving police officers ex officio. He said every presidential decree which officers would be involved, but with what qualities. You, in both cases where you came to amend the Presidential Decree, abolished the committee and allowed only the Chief of EL.AS to decide. This is strange, because each minister will reasonably want to have an opinion on a committee so that he can share responsibility in some way with the experts on this very specific issue. Do we have a system here, where these committees which are finally formed decide arbitrarily because of the pressures you are referring to, which persons will be kept under what conditions and for how long, and which is why we have seen these strange phenomena with the well-known telepurpose? Tell us exactly when you will bring us the specific provisions of amendment to Presidential Decree 191 and give us a general outline of the provisions that you are thinking about, and how you will fight precisely these customer criteria that are very often invaded by the committees that are formed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kamine, let me start by telling you that a committee exists, has never been abolished and operates as it has done in the last decisions taken. Mr Kamin, forgive me, but I owe you an answer on the evidence and the percentages you have asked for in your question. Therefore, the total number of staff employed in storage does not exceed a single-digit percentage of all police forces. The distribution of beneficiaries is 60% politicians, 30% other government officials and some individuals and 10% diplomats. The protection of purely private individuals is granted a one-digit percentage of all forces. In particular, journalists and publishers are available less than 2% of all the powers available in this case. I mean, we're talking about very few people, very few people, a few dozen. That's what I wanted to say about the evidence. I do not enter into comparisons, but previous governance has had more personal, same and worse contexts and several strange faces, but these are past, I am not expanding. We're looking forward, we're all going to change it together. To say two things about the telefactor's case, about restoring the truth. So he was kept by one person in May 2020, in August 2020 there was an arson outside his home and the committee meeting every quarter decided in November to make one more police officer available for a quarter. On January 13, following an arson of a car at the "ETV" where he works, the disposal of a third police officer, a service motorcycle and surveillance, not the storage of his home, was ordered. These additional measures were finally made available and were given in mid-February. In mid-March there was the overall increase in protection measures due to the mobilisation of Koufantina. There were attacks on Members' houses, many threats to media. Then the accompanying power was increased with a fourth police officer, a service car and 24-hour security of his home was ordered. I have told you in detail and I sum up: So they have never kept fourteen the telepurpose, such as hail and monotonous, scatter from the mud fan. There's never been armored cars. In ten out of eleven months, that is 90% of the storage time, he had one or two people without a car. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, you have a little tolerance, if possible, thank you. At ten, then, since 11 months, or 90% of the storage time, he had one or two carless persons. For less than a month, that is March, he had temporary accompanying care for four people. And yes, the police have denied, in particular by a simple and unequivocal statement, that seven patrol cars and two armored cars are guarding the reporter. The police never disproved security. It would, after all, be completely insane. There is therefore no contradiction between the mandate given by the committee to hold an extraordinary meeting before the next quarter to review the need to safeguard the individual after the GDR notification. And the research I have ordered to see at every stage of the procedure is also to check any irregularities - which are currently being investigated - but also to use this case in the legislative improvements we are proposing. So let us be serious and make it clear once and for all: the security police are assessing risks, not faces and characters. Alas, if the subjective attacks on the personality of each applicant, that is to say, each requesting protection, are invaded in the risk assessment. We have rule of law. You have said so before, and you have not been stigmatizing, we are not lynching, it is deeply undemocratic. It is incomprehensible that there are publications with titles: "We are governed by those who have given protection in this way." I conclude with a more general comment on the systematic and polluting attack on the police with the "caramel" of police violence, junta and authoritarianism. Greece and the whole world have been unbearablely oppressed for a year by the pandemic, not by the police. Patience is over, because fatigue has dominated. Who did, ladies and gentlemen, the checks on restrictive measures? Who was unnaturally controlling citizens every day on their natural rights, traffic, travel, entertainment and meeting? The police! Thirteen million checks! Thirteen million checks! With what personal? All available forces, more than twenty-two thousand forces on the road for thirteen months. And they have families, and they get sick, and they get sick, they're scared, but they work. The main one? They don't know, they haven't been trained in this business. But we don't have anyone else. Mild policing forces are not enough. The special operational units, those which fought in Evros, the "DIA" that at night is chasing with criminals and criminals, the "ASS" and the "OPCE" that every night are chasing drugs and serious crime, are forced to run with the blocks, ladies and gentlemen, for fines or colluding in the squares. That is why we are doing too much and we are not justifying all this. But let's get off the throne of the self-invited Internet tomb and the seat of the free-Journald Twitter. Let us go down on the sidewalk and on the square of the natural world, where we meet tired people in society, young children usually with young children on the other hand, police officers. Last year, we have less than 10% cases of violence compared to other countries in Europe and we are also an authoritarian regime in Greece, where more than a thousand hundred meetings took place in seventy days, that is, twenty every day! We're so authoritarian! The police don't stop at them, and it doesn't justify her mistakes. But it also requires a fair stand. It's not and it won't be his boxing bag for anyone! In less than a month we will discuss here the draft law on education and the change of organisation of the House and of the Ministry of Modern Education, lifelong learning, better management, more effective body. In the same draft law the provisions to which I referred earlier will also be discussed in my prototype. Yeah, the cops are gonna put on discreet and cameras. We've been working on this for a year. Discreet will be here in a few weeks. The cameras all over the country in about a year. We're not late, we're running. But, as you know, there are laws, competitions, supplies, personal data, labour restrictions and rights. It's terrible that the pilot program for the cameras was completed in 12 months. The equivalent in Germany was completed in twenty-four months and the equivalent in France in twenty-six months. So let malignancy and irresponsible criticism stop, and so far the mud. "True in the glass, wonderful opportunity" to paraphrase Mao as well. And let's get back to the point, Mr. Kamine. In three weeks' time, we will discuss institutional issues, education, security, the general reorganisation of the police and the ministry. I will do everything I can to ensure that we are all together, the maximum majority for the best solutions, a front for rationalisation and democracy. I know no more than that of rationalisation and democracy in matters of security, violence and good administration. And I have not seen any other alternative until now to serve the interests of the large majority. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too, Minister. And in the first, with number 631/29-32021, a top-level question by MP Carditsas of New Democracy Mr. George Kotsou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Possibility of deletion of rents and fees" will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Stylianos Petsas. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your election and wish you a fruitful and productive service for the benefit of our country's sport movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u17	Minister, it is well-known that on 18 September Karditsa suffered an extremely great catastrophe, due to the phenomenon of "Janu", a disaster in all the infrastructures of the county has, in essence, changed, if you like, the naturality of the mountain tumor, damage to homes, damage to businesses, damage to the agricultural and livestock sector. I must, however, recognize and clarify the direct reaction of the government to this disaster from the outset. Both at the level of the Ministry of Interior, which you are now representing, and at the level of the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance, the compensation for damages to homes, businesses and agricultural production has been unprecedentedly direct, effective and powerful, I would say. In the infrastructural sector, too, financing for local government was particularly high, so that most of the losses could be rectified. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] There is, however, one issue concerning crops, particularly agricultural crops which have suffered serious damage from 'January', compensated by the ELGA, but there are cases where the fields have been tightened up to a very large extent, so that these fields become barren and non-agricultural. I think that in these cases we should see the possibility of changing or adjusting the institutional framework and the level of reimbursement fees, since today the institutional framework provides for a balance of revenue and expenditure only for the cases I mentioned to you earlier. This is because in these cases the fields, to become productive and fertile, will be a long time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I therefore think it is reasonable and easy to allow the local government to exempt from compensation fees or rents when it was municipal land, so that the field, the field, will become fertile and productive, that farmers will not be charged with these costs. I would also suggest that time should not be counted until the field becomes productive in the conventional rental time of the field. In short, allow the municipal council, the municipal authority concerned, to decide, always in a strict, but also in specific procedures, the possibility of exempting the rent where the land is not productive, reducing or exempting the reward fees, and in particular irrigation charges where the field also has such problems and the possibility of extending an amount equal to the time that the field remains inactive, so that it is not wrong for the farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. I thank MP Carditsa Kotsos for the question he gives us the opportunity to show that we do not forget all these people who have suffered so much disasters since Janus' bad weather. As has been rightly pointed out, the state very organised and coordinatedly reacted with unprecedented speed in dealing with and supporting the affected. As far as the Ministry of Interior is concerned, we have so far provided about EUR 15 million for social protection and the replacement of construction for the affected in the area by the consequences of the 'Janu'. According to the relevant CSR of the Ministry of the Interior's Public Investment Programme, number 055, we have built projects of the affected municipalities and regions to repair these losses of about EUR 90 million, with unprecedented support from the Ministry of Interior, while the total appropriations allocated so far exceed EUR 300 million from all the relevant ministries. Any additional demands submitted, assessed and met, and we are in constant contact with the municipalities and the region, of course. For the two issues you are addressing, namely the exemption or reduction of irrigation charges and the rents of municipal land, the first of all, municipalities as water service providers for rural use have the power to determine irrigation fees under the terms of the applicable decision of the National Water Commission and the pricing and pricing rules set by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy Special Secretariat. The irrigation fees are the municipality’s return to cover each exit of the irrigation service. Therefore, any reduction or increase in fees should be proportionate to a reduction in the cost of the services provided. The procedure for balance-of-payments revenues therefore sets out certain limitations and requires careful consideration by the relevant departments of both the Ministry of the Interior and the relevant ministries. On the second issue and the possibility of reducing rents paid by farmers to municipalities for municipal land in the event of natural disasters, I would clarify that the issue you raise is reasonable and will be dealt with in the context of a comprehensive approach to the catastrophic effects of natural disasters, in cooperation with the relevant ministries. We have demonstrated by our actions that we are actively following the conditions that are being shaped in cooperation and with the municipalities, and we are taking initiatives for those facing exceptional circumstances. The favourable rules laid down in the Internal Audit Act, which will be discussed and voted on by Parliament next week, concerned with the two-year extension of the rents of municipal properties in which businesses are housed, with a view to further support for businesses because of the consequences of the pandemic. We are practically supporting both the businesses and the municipalities, and I mention, for example, the exceptional financing of the municipalities, of EUR 50 million, which came to complete the financial support of EUR 187,1 million, which supported local government last year, which, because of the pandemic, has been declining its revenues. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Please, Madam President. Finally, as regards financial obligations to the municipalities, in so far as these are borne by late payment increases, I mention the standing provisions of the Code of Conduct and Communities, which enable the municipalities to exempt the debtors from late payment increases, since this is due to an economic weakness arising from events of force majeure such as the ‘Janue’ case. In particular for the "January" and for the purpose of regulating the debts of the affected citizens to the public and the municipalities, a decision of the Deputy Minister of Finance to extend and suspend the payment of certain debts to regions of the regions of Thessaly, Ionian Islands and Central Greece was adopted in order to address the exceptional needs arising from the extreme weather phenomena. Our aim is to support, as far as possible, the citizens, all the industries of production and local government I and II, in order to directly restore the damage caused by the disastrous passage of 'Janu' and to straighten the affected by its consequences. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u21	Minister, I would like to thank you for facing the rental issue positively. It turns out once again that the government stands sensitively and responsibly with the problems of the citizens and tackles these issues positively, giving solutions to the point. I would, however, like to stay on the payroll, where you rightly said that there should be a balance between revenue and expenditure in order not to reduce the quality of the services provided. I am referring, however, to cases, as I will show you in a photograph, where the field has, in essence, become inactive, has become non-productive. The impurities, particularly in river-motivated fields, have been flooded with soaring materials and will take a very long time to get into production. The proposal, if you would like, in this direction - because the Government has shown us that it has both flexibility and openness of perception, dealing with such issues - is as follows: because the rewards should be balanced, since the municipal authority wants and has the possibility of covering the gap that will arise from the reduction of irrigation fees from its revenues, can only be done in these cases. I think that this is how we will give justice and, above all, we will cover the problems that have been created not for this growing season, where, anyway, there were from the ELGA, as you said before. However, it has also recognised all the farmers in Carditsa that this time, at least, the ELGA was effective and speedy. Since, in specific cases, it is not about a growing season, but it will also cover the next one, two or even three, until the specific fields are brought back into production, I believe that we need to see with a large extent the possibility of dealing with the costs borne by farmers, and not with the fees, of course, with decisions by the administrative bodies of the municipal authorities, so that they can exempt or reduce the fees in these cases to farmers, covering the gap presented by their regular revenues, if they have the possibility and can justify this with a specific explanatory statement. Of course, I think it is self-evident and possible to extend the renting contract for the farmed field, since it is a municipal area, because it is only there that we are talking about a reduction in rents or an extension of the renting of municipal land, if the field becomes inactive and uncultivated for some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member Georgios Mulkiotis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] I think we can show the flexibility needed to deal with such exceptional situations, both at the level of municipal councils and at the level of the central government. As I said before, it is a matter that we can look at and see how we can deal with it. What needs to be understood is that the two-year extension I referred to before also concerns rural enterprises. For individual natural persons we need to see it again how we can deal with it, especially for such cases, which of course are not many. They may be isolated, but in any case we must provide the framework within which they can be dealt with. So, yes, in cooperation with the municipalities, but also within the government, we will see how we can deal with this with flexibility. Just one comment. Any intervention in exceptional circumstances which we show our humanity, our sensitivity, the fact that we support the affected should not distract us from the great effort we have to make in the next few years, especially on this issue, which is the correct pricing of water. Let us not forget that this year's global water day is dedicated precisely to the right invoicing and how we use water. I take the opportunity to say that at least the Ministry of Interior within the 'ITIS TIERIS' programme has EUR 500 million for projects aimed at municipalities and regions concerning the integration of water and sewerage projects that are crucial for the distribution of water, and that is of course also crucial for its proper pricing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the third with number 654/5-2021 top-level question of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Take care for students of the 3th High School of the earthquake in the area of Thessaly through quota for this year's introductory examinations at the PI". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Macrey. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Let me turn to the development of the question before I can wish you a good term of office on the occasion of your election to the position of President of the CSCE. Good power.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u27	As far as the question is concerned, Madam President, it concerns the students of the Third High School of Earthquakes in Thessaly, the Larisa, Carditsa and Trikalon Prefectures and the extensive disasters that occurred during the recent earthquakes. The people affected by these regions of Thessaly, the regional units of Thessaly, are faced with a tragic situation, but there are also a number of immediate and pressing problems for which they should be resolved, and the corresponding concern in the next period, both on the part of the government and on the part of the region, the municipalities and the local administration in general. More specifically, then, earthquake - pity students are also experiencing an unprecedented situation along with their damaged or damaged homes. They have suffered, as the Minister knows, disasters and damages and school units in many villages in Thessaly. On the one hand, it does not allow students to continue the educational process, which I am passing away because of COVID and because of these exceptional measures, which the earthquake is coming to worsen. Therefore, it is understood that in this exceptional situation and the adverse conditions they are experiencing and to meet the requirements of the educational process in general, and in particular the students of the Third High School, will be invited to prepare for the upcoming pan-Hellenic examinations for their introduction to higher education institutions. The question, Madam President, is whether the Ministry will proceed immediately in order to provide moleculosis, quota for students in the Third High School for the pan-Hellenic exams this year in the affected areas. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u29	Madam President, I too congratulate you. You're, if I'm not mistaken, the first woman president.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u30	As you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u31	Be well. Mr Colleagues, I would first of all like to state the support of our Ministry, but also of mine to all those affected by the earthquake of 3 March 2021, as you do. Besides, your question proves your particular interest. In relation to the question you have asked, in accordance with Article 42(4) of Law 4521/2018 and Article 68 of Law 4653/2020, the following shall apply: The students of the latter class and the graduates of the general uniform high school and professional high school districts affected during the school year due to natural disasters, such as catastrophic earthquakes and flooding, are imported in excess of the number of people admitted to schools, departments and introductory directions of higher education institutions and higher church academies. This arrangement shall apply also to pupils and graduates of GES and PESA who are permanently resident in the areas referred to in the preceding subparagraph, even if they apply for - a declaration of participation in a high school in another region or in another secondary education address. This right applies only to those who apply for a declaration and participate in the first after the event pan-Hellenic examinations of the period of regular examination or to the pan-Hellenic examinations during which the incident occurred and is concerned with the introduction in the academic year concerned. The area must have been declared in an emergency of civil protection in accordance with the provisions of Law 3013/2002. In this case, a decision of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs is required each time. This Decision determines the specific percentage assigned on the basis of the number of persons affected in relation to the participants in the pan-Hellenic examinations by category of high school, GEL, PAEL, daily, citrus, which is not more than 2% per category. There is also provision for the possibility of applying the special rate. Provision shall be made for any specific conditions for the selection, the relevant supporting documents, the selection process and any other relevant matters. In any case, this option is that candidates should have achieved a total number of molecules equal to at least 70% of the number of molecules achieved by the last successors of their category at that school or part of the same academic year. So, from what I have just said, one can understand that the current institutional framework adequately regulates both the cases of the students of the last class and the graduates of the general uniform high school and the professional high school areas affected during the school year by natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods. In fact, the specific issues are regulated by the ministerial decision adopted after the pan-Hellenic examinations in September or October of the same year. I would remind you that a similar ministerial decision was adopted on 5-10-2020 for the municipality of Fanari Parga and the districts of the Municipality of Preveza affected by the earthquake of 21 March 2020. In particular, a ministerial decision entitled ‘Definition of beneficiaries of a special rate for admission to higher education was issued in the academic year 2020-2021 of pupils and graduates of general and professional high-level areas affected by natural disasters and who applied for a declaration and participated in the first post-Greek examinations carried out in June 2020’. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u33	I, too, listened carefully to the Minister for the proposed legislation. It is simply a matter of practical implementation, as you have said. As far as the Ministry is concerned, what I understand from what you said is that once the pan-Hellenic examinations are finished, the Ministry will adopt the relevant circulars, decisions, etc. In the meantime, students will have to submit their respective applications. Take care of who? Any secondary education in Thessaly, in Larissa, in Trikala, in Karditsa? Is this going to be the concern of secondary education there, that is, teachers or students themselves? I would like to say that there is a preparation for the examinations and much more to the Ministry's decision you said before, Minister. So will this be done with care to the services of the Ministry, the secondary locally or with the individual responsibility of the students who should be looking and looking? That's the first. In any case, the area has been declared an emergency. We have such samples of writing from the past that have also been applied to other areas affected by earthquakes. We believe that both the Ministry and the Government - the respective governments - should pay due attention to these issues, but also ensure that all these measures are taken immediately in order to help pupils in their education and, in particular, as we are discussing today, the students of the Third High School for their preparation in the light of the pan-Hellenic examinations. Beyond this issue of moulation, which is the main question of the question we are discussing today, we would like to put this question: many of these children are homeless at the moment. Schools have suffered catastrophes. You know it. You have the same perception, you had gone to the area, not to repeat them. However, some school units have been damaged, others can be repaired, others will take some time to repair them. Either way, the educational process until we get to the pan-Hellenic will be - let me say - problematic. These kids now where they're going to read? How will they be prepared? In tents? I conclude from this: should the state, the municipalities and the region not take care to have all those conditions so that these children can even have the space to prepare, read, but also the corresponding supportive teaching in the light of the examinations and within this range of the problems they face as a result of the earthquake and pandemic? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Mr President, you have also noted that there is the institutional and legal framework - which allows when the conditions I mentioned in the prototype are met and I will not tire of repeating them, because you know them and listened to them - and then the Ministry has an obligation to make a ministerial decision to determine the percentage and the conditions for the inclusion of the children. I repeat: When the conditions exist, there is the legal framework and sensitivity of the Ministry. I am not saying anything, I am simply making it clear what is legally applicable. As for who will make the application - a statement, obviously, the student concerned, in consultation with secondary education, when and if the ministerial decision is adopted, which will also be instructed by our Ministry. I would like, however, in the time left to tell you beyond what you have said, because you have also raised the issue of the most difficulties for these children, beyond the pandemic that caused problems, that our Ministry in this period has taken note of the blow that the regions of Thessaly have accepted to maintain wherever possible and there was no further risk to the safety of their children and families, so that they are not absent from the educational process. The building infrastructure, which is not supervised by us, but by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in collaboration with the technical services of the municipalities, has been self-sufficient in finding the suitability of the school buildings, and has recorded the damage to start their immediate restoration. According to the document No 2960-24-321 of the Administrative, Economic and Pedagogical Support Department of the Regional Primary and Secondary Education Department of Thessaly, which was sent to our Ministry, buildings unsuitable for use in the Municipality of Larissa, were recorded immediately and there were no corresponding school units to be demolished. The same was done in the Regional Units of Carditsa and Trikala. In the Regional Unit of Magnesia, neither damage nor inappropriate school buildings were recorded. Also, for the school year 2020-2021, with the responsibility of the Director of each school unit and in accordance with the guidelines of the Anti-Semitism Agency, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs has drafted an emergency plan in the event of a specific risk for all school units in the Larissa Regional Unit. Larissa Primary Education Department has implemented information and educational actions for the educational community, for the seismic phenomenon, its consequences and the behaviour they must have in such suddenly natural phenomena, such as earthquake. They organised preparedness exercises aimed at informing and educating students and all staff. I would like to say here that if we had escaped victims in Damasy, it was not only thanks to the Director's self-sacrificing sacrifice, which everyone praised - and the Prime Minister himself spoke with him - but also to the fact that he had the provision to do similar preparedness to students. We also anticipated - and I conclude with this, Madam President - the reinforcement of teaching, in the framework of the "CONTRIBUTIONAL EDUCATION" programme, to support and prepare the pupils of the third grade of general school, vocational high school education and the fourth grade of single professional schools and schools and to participate in the pan-Hellenic examinations in special courses. This strengthening teaching was done by means of tele-education, as provided for by the relevant ministerial decisions and was an additional measure taken by our Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too, Mrs. Undersecretary. We move on with the third under No 653/5-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "The problems of school housing in Peristeri". The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. MacRey. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Secretary, this is about the school roof in Peristeri. It is one of the largest municipalities in the country and yet the shortages in school roofs, although they are in the centre of the country, in the capital city, are unthinkable. We have the 10th High School in St. Jerome, which has been under construction for two decades and has not yet been delivered. He's currently joining the 7th High School with sewed buildings, where he should have been the courtyard of the 7th High School. Similarly, the 1st High School is associated with the 1st High School - a terrible originality - with halls in the halls of the school, which is a global originality, but unfortunately in Greece, we are not only in this building, but only in this school. It is also a huge problem for the special school with the 3rd ESDP. The special school managed to operate last year, even though it had been founded for ten years, as there was no school building, which is why it could not work. Finally, he's joining the 3rd PSAF, but I think we're just wondering how a special school can stand up for an PSAF. How can the specific requirements of such a school, which are high, higher than any other school, be met? As for Peristeri's newly founded artistic school, this is associated with the 1st PESAL in a PPP building, delivered after ten years of construction and delays, although there was no problem with the plot, although there were no ownership issues, no guidance restructuring or planning. However, it has been a long delay. We still have two schools with special needs to enter a PPP building with terrible major problems. First of all, you know that PPP managers, owners do not allow a single nail to enter, do not allow the slightest change to take place, nor in the working hours, for school's operational needs. The question is when will it be ready to surrender the 10th High School building, built for twenty years, to dismantle the situation and stop children taking lessons in the yard and the rest of the children having a courtyard? When will it be ready to surrender the special school building, a building that meets, hopefully, the conditions necessary for a special school? What does the Ministry intend to do in order to dismantle the situation in the other schools, such as the artistic one, which, due to the lack of space for workshops and multimedia activities, is not able to respond to the needs of pupils and students? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u38	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arseni, faithful to our weekly appointment I will answer this question as well, specifying, however, that care for the construction, management and improvement of the logistics of the National System of Primary and Secondary Education and in particular the maintenance, cleaning and maintenance of the school buildings falls within the competence of the municipalities, in accordance with Article 75(1) (F) of the Code of Municipalities and Communities. Under Article 94(4) of Law 3852/2010, ‘New Architecture of the Administration and the Decentralised Administration’, the municipalities have the power to expropriate land for the needs of the school house, the building of school buildings, the rental of immovable property for the housing of public school units, the housing and building of them, and, in the case of agglomeration, the determination of the exclusive use of certain areas of the tuition from each school unit, as well as the common use of the rest of the areas and hours of the rest of each of the established school unit. In addition, on the basis of the above provision, the municipalities are entrusted with the task of allocating appropriations to the school committees for the repair and maintenance of school buildings. The role of our Ministry is perfect and defines the specifications of the premises in terms of their type, number and size, which are reflected in the relevant veterinary programme. In addition, according to the number 136882/DG4/9-10-2020 circular of the General Secretariat of Primary and Secondary Education of our Ministry of Education on the subject of "School Changes in Primary and Secondary Education for the school year 2021-2022" it is foreseen that the proposals for secondary education addresses to the RIS for the implementation of the school changes - that is, for the maintenance of school units, the addition of sectors and specialities - should be accompanied by an opinion from the relevant municipal councils, in which the question of the accommodation of the school units will be explicitly identified. Since the information we have had from the Secondary Education Directorate of Athens, the school units mentioned in your question are operating in accordance with the existing legislation and the distribution of pupils and students to the departments does not exceed the prescribed number. The use of these schools' premises is satisfactory and meets the educational needs of pupils and pupils. For your full information, Mr Colleague, although the question is not entirely related to our Ministry's competence, we have also searched for information on the school buildings you are invoking. There is no building under construction for the 10th Peristeri Lyceum, since the plot, which has been acquired by the School Building Agency for many years, has been outside construction project, so no school building could be erected. The 10th Primary High School is set up with the 7th High School and the theme is known to the Building Infrastructure. The intensification of the special school with the 3rd PASA was the result of a recommendation from the Department of Secondary Education III of Athens since 2017. Also, about the 1st High School and the 1st High School there is an adequacy of spaces and it houses and meets the needs of both schools, as the responsible department of Secondary Education III Athens confirms. As regards, in particular, the School of Arts of Peristeri, the Secondary Education III of Athens, as early as 2016, had requested approval for the transfer of the headquarters of the Artistic High School of Aigaleo, which was renamed at the Art School of Peristeri, after the relevant opinion of the relevant Artistic Committee of our Ministry, which decided that the new building allowed the housing of the new school. I'll come back to this in my denture. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u40	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Here we have a very difficult phenomenon. All the powers have been transferred to the municipalities, without actually having taken sufficient funding, but also without having even left the resources received by the municipalities. You know very well, Minister, and from your constituency, that the funds taken by municipalities over the last ten years have been reduced by at least 40%. Thus, the resources taken by the school committees to pay for heating or anything they do not even get to heat these schools. You said, however, that the state keeps the standards. Are the standards respected when a special school joins an ESDP? How much can these standards be complied with? Your services say the 1st High School and the 1st High School are fine. But here, we have complaints from the teachers themselves. They say there are halls in the halls. How can this be accepted as normality? And so on for artistic etc. There is a big problem - because you know about the issue of Western Athens, we have discussed it again and we will discuss it all the time - the school roof and the maintenance. And this issue is more general throughout Greece. In my opinion, we need the state to take responsibility for the construction of these buildings and for the central state to intervene effectively in the construction of these buildings. I mean, it can't be. Mr Lebanese had also announced as State Secretary for the Interior a project that will strengthen the municipalities specifically for building buildings. A programme, however, is being sought. Mr Lebanese is not now a State Secretary for the Interior after the reform and we do not see this initiative progressed. It was very important. We have the need to create a "KTEO buildings". Buildings are on the brink of collapse. In kindergarten in Corfu the roof fell on the table sitting seven children two minutes after they went out for a break. We could have mourned children. It happened a while ago. Likewise, in West Athens, we had such phenomena. If the situation does not change at the moment, we are heading towards the complete depreciation of school buildings, at risk for children and, of course, with a very bad image and heritage we leave in public education. So, really, I urge you to go ahead and suggest to the Interior Minister that he proceed directly with the school building programme, see a little more careful if the standards of school buildings, which you said were the responsibility of the Ministry, are respected, and ask the municipalities to do what they need by giving them funding, because the state of school roof in West Athens is really very bad and in Peristeri, as we have presented today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u42	Me too, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. If I interpret you correctly, Mr Colleague, you too agree with the granting of this competence to the municipalities. It was also a constant demand for local government. And with regard to the financial support of the central political system to the municipalities for better construction and repair of school units, I can assure you that the programme - you have already said it - is and is a programme that will run very quickly and I express the legitimate optimism that the municipalities will also take advantage of it in the best possible way. As I told you in the archeology, the answers to your question do not fall within the exclusive competence of our Ministry. I have, however, sought - because I wanted to inform you - of the data on the school units that your question contains. The latter were relocated to other buildings following a recommendation from the Secondary Education III of the school community of Athens and this recommendation was accepted by the Municipality of Peristeri. And in particular, I mention that 2016 approved the transfer of the seat of the Art School of Aigaleo, renamed at the Artistic Gymnasium of Peristeri, to the building of the Technical Chamber of Peristeri due to the adequacy of space and the relocation was implemented in the same year as it was approved. In 2017, the relocation of the 3rd PAPAL Peristeri stationary with the special school - in which you insist - was approved because the building of the TEI Peristeri has great capacity. And according to the document dated 06-04-2021 sent by the Special Administration and Implementation Agency of the Ministry of Home Affairs to our Ministry, the Ministry of Interior under the program "ANITOS TITION" issued a protocol number 16401/28-08-2020 calling for the development of a building stock of the municipalities, as well as for the protocol number 18213/29-09-20 of an invitation entitled "Conservation of municipal sports spaces in school units, accessibility of SMEs" concerning the financing of projects for the maintenance and repair of school buildings and intangibles, as well as any other related action aimed at improving the infrastructure of preschool, primary, secondary and secondary education and enhancing the quality of the services provided in the field of education. So, well, the Municipality of Peristeri can and I believe it will apply for funding, under the conditions set out in the above invitations, and will improve, as far as possible, the situation of the school units. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u44	I, too, thank you, Minister, and you will allow me, as an instructor, to beg you, because there are schools like the 2nd Petropolis High School, which still have classes that operate in a container, and because I know your sensitivity, to look at it in particular and to solve it immediately. Because you understand that teaching in such rooms is very difficult.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u45	Thank you for the comment. Recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. We now move on to the fourth with number 648/5-2021 topical question by the Member of the Boeotian Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Forum for retrospective endemics (June 2015-May 2016). The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, your Government, despite the election promises, has been conducting a policy that we feel is further downgrading the standard of living of pensioners during the twenty-months of government. and ignore the judgments given. While electorally promised to maintain the tenth-third pension that had been passed by the previous government, it finally abolished it. The thresholds for the pension and EASA, which PASOK had established and maintained, despite the financial derailment brought about by governance 2004-2009, were abolished in SYRIZA, but the New Democracy maintained their abolition. Also, with arbitrary interpretations of the decisions of the Council of State, which even legislated them, on the one hand, it has deprived them of one and a half million low pensioners, retroactively from the cuts in gifts and ancillarys in June 2015-May 2016, on the other hand, of those who retroactively granted the reimbursement of these amounts, even though they were paid after about five years, were unfavourable. In fact, pensioners finally took, after so many years, the sums due to them from the anti-constitutional cuts of Laws 4051 and 4093 of 2012, according to a circular of the Chief Commander of AIA, to submit amending income tax declarations for 2015 and 2016. In other words, Minister, the government, instead of paying off retrospectively, as insubstantially collects everything when there are delays - interest payments - not only pays them off, but also tax them doubles, taxs them as a taxable income on pensions and thus as a special contribution of solidarity. And even the taxable pension income has a rate of 22% to 42% for 2015 and 22% to 45% for 2016 and the special solidarity contribution at a rate of 2% to 8% for 2015 and at a rate of 2% to 10% for 2016. In a similar case of retroactive reimbursement, Mr Minister - you know that very well - pensioners have been taxed in accordance with Article 60(4) of the Treaty. 4172/2013 and Article 15 of Law 4575/2018 and the 2018 implementing NSA 170285009, with an autonomous tax rate of 20%, including the special solidarity contribution. There too, every tax obligation has been exhausted. You see, there's a great disparity, disharmony, a contradiction, a bad one. Minister, do you intend in the context of the equal treatment of Greek citizens - so we put it - to tax retrospectives, the end of 2015 to 2016, in the same way that the retroactive sums paid in accordance with Article 15 of Law 4575/2018, i.e. with an autonomous tax of 20%, including the special solidarity contribution? Is there also a plan and a timetable that we need to tell pensioners? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u48	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. I have to tell you that the government has practically given samples of respect to judgments. From there on, your criticism is unfounded, because this government last July brought in an amendment extending the retrospective performance for the 11th of June 2015-May 2016 and for those of the pensioners they had not brought an action before the administrative courts. And since you are invoking the decisions of the Council of State, I have to tell you that in the figures. 1439, 1443 of 2020 decisions of the Council of State provided for the return of retrospectives only to those who had applied for. It was the Government of the New Democracy that included those who had not practised. From there on, with Law No4701/2020 and Article 30 in particular, it has given a substantial solution to the problem of retroactive pensions, for which pensioners were asked to pay tax. I am referring to a large proportion of retroactive pensions received in 2013 by pensioners, but who did not include these amounts in their tax declaration, resulting in tax being charged. Among these cases also resulted in a number of tax determinations issued, despite the fact that these incomes had been included by the taxpayers in the declarations submitted. With the regulation that we have brought to Parliament and voted on, we have restored this unequal and unfair treatment which has caused great problems for certain pensioners. Appropriate corrective intervention was granted on the basis of the information provided to the competent authorities in order to ensure that the amounts involved are taxed on the use to which they actually relate and not on the year in which they were collected. We also predicted that fines would not be imposed, while significant increases in pensioners who were late in their first pension would be reduced for their unreported retrospectives. In my dentistry, I will give you an answer for the rest of the questions mentioned in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u51	Minister, first of all, for what you said you did, we will not say that it has not been done. But you do not give a full answer to the protology, so that we can do a full second. We can't answer that. So, when we ask and you tell me in the theory that you don't answer and that you're going to say it in the dentistry, what am I supposed to say now in the dentistry that I have no further conversation with? So they are incomplete and I think they are not right in parliamentary terms. I am allowed to say that, because I cannot answer, since you have not spoken. But, Minister, I will also submit to the minutes - and the Ministry has taken this into account - for example, I will provide you with documents submitted by the Pan-Hellenic Association of Retired Telecommunications OTE Group, the Association of Retired Personnel Insurance. These documents, which I have said, will be submitted in the Minutes. These are specific issues that I don't know what you're going to say. I don't know. But I insist that I say it, because I have to remind you and raise the matter. There are confronted by the government for these specific categories of retrospectives which are not appropriate. They're negative and they're not right. There can be no indestructible return, and it can be doubled by double taxation. And we have taxable pension income with a 22% to 42% rate for 2015. You can't question that. A factor of 22% to 45% for 2016. Also, a special solidarity contribution of 2% to 8% for 2015 and 2.2% to 10% for 2016. Are you going to stop this? That's the basic thing. Will the differences be stopped? And there is a uniform rate of 20%, as has been done in the past, and as we suggest you have also been told by our question? That's the big deal. The other things you say the government did or didn't do, you brought them here, there were reactions, there was social pressure and you succumbed to pressure and you complied. And you did well because they were beneficial to retired people. But we cannot have such unequal treatments and the government is deaf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Colleague, compare unparalleled things and situations. The specific tax treatment laid down for beneficiaries of the retroactive remuneration and pensions paid under Articles 10 to 15 of Law 4575/2018 clearly provided that the tax was withheld at a rate of 20% at the time of payment of those retroactive fees. I repeat, when these retrospectives were paid, a 20% withdrew tax, which exhausted any other tax obligation, including the special solidarity levy. I am referring to L.4172/2013, Article 60(4), third subparagraph. This means that there was a pre-paid tax in payment of the retrospectives and did not need to be confirmed by the submission of the tax declaration after a year. The date of acquisition of the retroactive measures was considered to be the tax year 2018. There is no such arrangement for amounts paid under the relevant GFCM as a refund for private sector pension reductions or for amounts paid under the relevant GFCM as a refund for public sector pension reductions. These MCAs provided for the payment of the retrospectives, without any withholding tax and a special solidarity contribution. These revenues therefore fall within the general provisions of the general rules, i.e. the scale applicable in the tax years 2015-2016, which take place in excess of the special solidarity contribution. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] It is also noted that the retroactive measures provided for under Law 4575/2018 refer to one-off sums to active executives in the general public sector and the pensioners of these categories, while the retrospectives of Articles 33 and 34 of Law 4734/2020 concern all pensioners in the public and private sectors, in accordance with the relevant provisions. In view of the current situation, no similar application of the taxation of those incomes is envisaged as provided for in Law 4575/2018. I stress, however, that these retrospectives, since they were paid in 2020, are neither charged with late submissions nor with late payment interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Besyropoulou. The first question under number 3929/5-2-2021 will be discussed now under the question of the circle of petitions - questions raised by MP B1' North Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Government of New Democracy does not solve the problem of workers in the cleanliness of public bodies". Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on 31 March the contract was concluded for a hundred and forty workers in the cleanliness of the Ministry of Finance and now they have literally been on the road in the midst of a pandemic, unemployment and a major economic and social crisis. Already on February 5, 50 three SYRIZA Members - Progressive Alliance we asked you a question with which we were asking you and asked you to find a solution for the excluded, as it seemed, of the Ministry of Finance and the ASE, and we also pointed out that after many years of work at the Ministry of Finance these women were now in the face of the unemployment range. As rule one is now one, and because they cover constant and constant needs, we have asked you to find a permanent solution for the whole of the public by means of a declaration totalling the clean-up positions. A few days ago we had the opportunity with our colleagues, Mr Zachariadis and Mr Alexiadis, who are present today, to meet you and the representatives of the clearers, Mrs Balla, and there we asked you to have an amendment on your part for at least a three-month extension so that these women would not find themselves in unemployment and in this time, in cooperation with Mr Vorides, the Minister of the Interior, to find a solution. For your part, we have understood that you are in the mood to seek such a solution, but unfortunately the days are going through, and these women have already reached the limit of despair. We, Minister, would like to ask you: Firstly, do you intend to bring an amendment to this three-month extension, so that these women continue to work in the empty cleanliness positions of the public in existence? Secondly, whether together with Mr Voridis, the Minister for the Interior, you intend to provide a permanent solution with a proclamation of permanent positions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos. The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, will answer. Mr. Stavura, good morning. You have three minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do confirm, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, the interest of yours, colleagues and other parties - from the JRC, I had a recent visit - on this issue, the issue of the cleanliness of the Ministry of Finance and the ASE. And you know my door was open and it's also for the employees in the field of cleaning. Indeed, all this time we have sought to see whether there are possible solutions within the framework of legality. As you are well aware, and I think you can confirm that in your dentistry, when we discussed in my office, the procedure that we followed as the Ministry of Finance was the right one based on legislation. In particular, according to Article 8 of Law 4506/2017, namely the Law of the Government of SYRIZA, the Ministry of Finance and ASE proceeded to publish the relevant notices for recruitment respectively of sixty and a hundred people in the field of cleaning by contracts of a fixed duration of eighteen months, just as SYRIZA did. The selection criteria, just as SYRIZA had done, had a strong social character, as set out in 2018 by a relevant joint ministerial decision adopted for that very reason. To know the criteria, the candidate's unemployment time has been mobilised, his family status - polytext, tritec, number of children - the existence of a single parent family, any disability of the candidate, or any disability of the candidate's parent, child, brother or wife. We have not changed the criteria of the previous competition on SYRIZA at all. In addition, a corresponding recruitment criterion was the identification and acquisition of relevant work experience, whether in the public or private sectors. Currently, the provisional results of the notices have been issued, the provisional contracts have been signed until the final results have been issued, after the AAC have been heard by the AACC of any objections to the molecules tables. You mentioned, my colleague, that they stayed outside of people who worked at the Ministry of Finance and the ADP. This is a fact, unfortunately, on the basis of social criteria. However, they remained outside candidates because others raised more molecules on the basis of - I repeat - the social criteria that I mentioned a moment ago. Let me remind you that it was in 2018. By the notice you published, there were twenty-seven out of the sixty workers who were employed until then in the field of cleanliness of the Ministry of Finance and thirty-three of the eighty-seven employees in the ADP. With regard to the permanentisation of staff, you know that and that is a matter, as you quite rightly said, of the Ministry of the Interior. The permanentisation of personnel hired under a fixedterm private contract in the public sector or the conversion of such contracts into an indefinite period is contrary to the provisions of Article 103 of the Constitution, which has also been judged legally by the Ice Marble in 2020 and 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u58	Thank you too, Minister. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first at our meeting we reminded us that after 2015 the government of SYRIZA hired all the fired cleaners, although they were under difficult memorial conditions and restrictions. We also explained to you, because there is a difference, that, in the 2018 process, which was in fact introduced in the eighteen months to find a solution for workers and workers in public cleanliness, the difference was that the notice was made at the same time for all ministries, in order not to have this phenomenon that has now happened with the individual notices, which, because they were all rushing to submit their papers, remained, in fact, this large number outside, that is most of them in the Ministry of Finance. Then there were very few left out, precisely because it was a horizontal tender procedure and that is why a solution was found. In 2019, which happened to be the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, we had already prepared a bill with permanent posts and can now be sought, as we told you, at the services of the Ministry of the Interior, but due to elections we were unable to bring it in and then bring the amendment for further extensions, which you have also continued until now, and we have now found ourselves in this problem, to be the hundreds of forty literally cleaners on the road. Because it is an issue that requires cooperation - and we recognise this - between you as Minister of Finance and Mr Vorides, who is Minister of the Interior, we have already asked and will meet the Minister of Interior with Mr Zachariadis and Mr Alexiadis on Monday in order to speak with him. But what we are asking you today is the commitment that, first of all, you can and there is a question of political will. You have the administrative capacity with rule one by one and with the possibility of bringing an amendment to at least three months' extension to empty positions of the public, which is of course also a matter for the Minister of Interior, to establish and record, and at the same time we want your commitment that as a government and in cooperation with the Minister of the Interior, you will consider - and we want to contribute in this direction - in order to find a lasting solution. In this direction we insist and commit to continue to support the fair fight of cleaners and we believe that the needs of the public must be exploited, the rule one by one, and as we have pointed out in our meeting, and the recent decision of the European Union court, which is now opening up - and we will explain it to Mr Vorides - and the possibility of permanentisation of contractors into cleanliness. Minister, from you today we want your commitment to move in this direction and, above all, to the immediate prolongation of the cleaners' contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes to give a 'yes' or a 'no' to your commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u61	I should first like to start with a little historical regression in terms of workers with fixed-term work contracts at the Ministry of Finance and the ADP, who have worked for a long time with repeated fixed-term contracts before 2004. This means that various governments have been through from then on and with the transitional provisions of the 2004 Presidential Decree on successive contracts, which were concluded before the entry into force and were active until the entry into force, the procedure to be followed was laid down to determine whether these contracts constituted an indefinite project contract, provided that in any case the criteria laid down by the law laid down were met. Therefore, since the contracts referred to in the question in question were not converted by the provisions of the 2004 Presidential Decree into contracts of indefinite duration by successive governments and by the Government of SYRIZA, it appears that they did not fulfil by law defined criteria for this purpose. So what you would have done is something that no one can say that it would have been, because we have been accustomed by the Qualified Opposition to say that it has not been able at the last minute to implement various policies. Mrs Fontaine asked me why we did not - all the ministries - get a parallel issue of relevant notices so that the staff who might have stayed outside a notice could have been taken up in another notice. I answer you: You, as you said, did this in 2018 in order to legalise the employment of cleaning staff for the period from 1 July 2017, as their contracts in most Ministries had expired. That is why your predecessor at the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction on 27-12-2017 - I will submit it in the Minutes - issued a circular in a sequence of articles 8 and 9 of Law 4506/2017, namely the SYRIZA Government, which had to issue up to 31-1-2018 a call for staff recruitment in the field of cleaning. That was another exercise. That is why the announcements of both the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2018 were published almost at the same time in all ministries. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Since then - and on your days - each ministry, according to its existing needs, has either published new notices for the recruitment of privately-owned law for a certain period of eighteen months, as the Ministry of Interior - formerly Administrative Reconstruction - the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the ASEI or in competitive procedures, as the other ministries have chosen. You're asking me why we didn't extend the contracts that ended at the Ministry of Finance and the ADP. You know very well that fixed-term contracts can only be extended for exceptional reasons. According to Article 180 of Law No 4764/2020 private-law contracts of a fixed term cleaning staff of buildings, including the Ministry of Finance and ASE, were extended for reasons of public health until new contracts had been concluded following the completion of ongoing recruitment procedures and in any case not beyond 31 March 2021 and we are doing so. In conclusion, as I have started my second-guess, let me ask why you people who are saying that, under the contracts of private law, workers are being held hostage - as you say in your question - after almost three years of governance, you have not given a definitive solution to the problem of the cleanliness of the services in the public sector through the recommendation, as you are saying - retrospectively, of permanent jobs based on the real needs of the services. Why did you choose the eighteen-month contracts? You chose the eighteen-month contracts and said you'd be preparing for simulation after we got out of the adjustment programs. But didn't we come out in August 2018? Didn't you say we were outside the memoirs? So, you will allow me to tell you, as I have said in my office, that we, as the Ministry of Finance, have followed the good practice, the good political act, following on from what SYRIZA had done in 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u62	Thank you too, Minister. Have a good day to both of you! And we go to the next, in the second time question under number 657/5-2021, in the second cycle of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The inviting and violent assault of police officers on students in Larissa." Mr. Bright, good morning! Two minutes to start this is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a few days ago, on March 30, about 8:30, at night, thirteen - students - as they also denounce students, parents - who were in St. Antony's Park in Larissa were attacked by police officers with political, undiscreetly, who, without discreet notice of their identity, began to take control of the students, terrorizing them. In fact, they reached the point of throwing one of them on the ground, which resulted in his severe injury. I mean, he suffered a top-end fracture. In fact, instead of driving the student to the hospital to provide first aid, he was brought to the police station, while his parents were informed two hours later. So this fact of police violence and authoritarianism, as we would say, is causing and causing the outrage, indignation and fair disdain for students, parents, teachers and the people of our city who condemn and, of course, denounce police violence and arbitraryness in this particular event. So the questions we ask, Mr President, are whether the Ministry of Civil Protection will take immediate action to investigate this fact of police arbitrariness and violence and to punish and suffer the consequences of the law of anyone who is responsible or responsible and to stop police terrorism and the practice of repression, even to thirteen years of age or to students, if you like, as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Economou, good morning! You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the accidental injury of a thirteenth-year-old young man to the margin of formal police control is undoubtedly an unfortunate event for all of us. On this occasion, I would also like to wish the young rapid recovery. The government's task is to highlight the truth of what happened through the exact description of the incident. It is an obligation against the relationship of trust that it enjoys with the citizens of the country. In this context, having carefully studied the content of the question under discussion, I should first of all like to point out all the points that are far from the reality and to inform the House of what really happened a few days ago in Larissa. First, no raid took place on March 20th and 30th at St. Antony's Park. The reality is that it was a police control in the context of specific local actions aimed at preventing drug trafficking, which you may know is an issue that concerns the people of this region and also the police services. Four police officers, then, of the drug prosecution department of Larissa Security Directorate, attempted to carry out police checks on a group of young people within the above park. Secondly, their identity has never been concealed, on the contrary they have stated it directly in the first place. None of this has happened, as inaccurately illustrated by the timely question, nor, of course, any injury as a result of it, as some claim. What happened is that young people in the face of police control began running and one of them, unfortunately, was trespassed and fell on the ground. Thirdly, contrary to what is being said to address the police of the unfortunate injury of the young person, their handling was the following: they have shown the necessary directity and care both to inform them and to provide him with the necessary medical care as soon as possible. So, directly, the police approached the minor for help and while still on the point of the incident, they phoned his father, who was invited to come to the drug prosecution department in order to be informed of what had happened. So while they were all at the service's headquarters, the thirteenth year old complained of pain in his right hand, so accompanying policemen and his mother, he was sent to Larissa General Hospital, where a fracture was diagnosed at the top right end. Fourthly - and with this I would like to conclude my initial position - the reflexes of the leadership of the Greek Police have been immediately and the initiatives taken to investigate the incident have been the appropriate ones for the occasion. It was ordered by the General Regional Police Directorate of Thessaly as early as 2 April, to carry out a preliminary administrative examination with the possibility of converting it into a juror administrative examination. Furthermore, as provided for in these cases, a senior officer has been designated as having no administrative reliance on the department concerned or police officers. Of course, the Independent Authority of the Citizens' Counsel has been informed as part of its responsibilities as National Succession Investigation Mechanism. Finally, in the context of a comprehensive briefing of this House and of the citizens, I would like to point out that the pre-examination procedure in this case was not finally taken into account by the Directorate for Home Affairs of Northern Greece, to which, on the order of the Headquarters, the investigation of the case had been carried out. The reason is that, after consulting the Chief Prosecutor of the Prosecutors Larissa with the Prosecutor of Thessaloniki, who is also the supervisor of the Internal Affairs Directorate of Northern Greece, a preliminary examination was ordered to investigate all aspects of this event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too. Here you go, Mr. Lambroulis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u67	I listened carefully to the Minister. I would like to ask: What is the reason to apologize for the attack, as was said in the police station where the young man came and in the presence of his parents? So what's the point of apologizing for the incident? I'm putting in and the injury, beyond the whole incident. Secondly, when they appear 20: 30' - they are sorrows, evenings - in a park of four, five people with political clothes, masks because of COVID and lenses on children's eyes - not to say what was said or how the children were approached - what will a thirteen-year-old child possibly assume when they are in front of police officers who did not say - I insist on that - that they are police officers? Will a thirteen-year-old be terrified or not? I say he'll be terrified, of course! And against this type of behaviour, these children were, of course, terrified, because they may have thought it was a robbery, because they are also happening in this region, but also in other regions and across Greece. So terrified, they went away. Of course, at that time I was involved - let me have the term - in the sense of handle and fall. And it's not 'we', Minister, because we've known these stumblings for decades now! We know how we fall, where we fall, he tripped, and he fell! He fell out of the window, let's say. I live here in this. We say that this event is not the only one, of course, but it is a link in the chain of similar cases and incidents of terrorisation of pupils not only in Larissa, but also in Greece and in previous years, in the previous period. See, for example, what happened in 2018 with the children in the 7th PSAL, the students - who, incidentally, are waiting for trial - who seized at school claim not to close the specialities decided by the government at the time, but also to fill the gaps, claiming an improvement in the conditions of education with staff and infrastructure to cover the shortages in their school. In addition to what we are saying - and I quote, within the question, you have read it, you have seen - it is the announcements, which are their right, of the association of police officers locally, and in particular of the Vice-President who is also Vice-President in POSSH, who, not much too much on the occasion of the event, states that this event is a mud war. It says that such incidents and events, apart from being false, are slanderous and even provocative. In other words, they had an appetite for thirteen years to provoke, for example, the police. They had this goal, located at 20:30' in a park, because at 21.00 the restraining measures began, 13-year-old children, teenagers, who came out to get some air and hang out, kids known in their neighborhood. So such statements, Minister, which we of course denounce, are, or are they not true, able to give air to the sails, in other words to inflate the sails of equivalent individuals, if you wish, who also serve the security bodies? We say yes, as happens throughout our public life. So repression, police violence incidents and military patrols and local and, more generally, police officers in neighborhoods and squares are a conscious governmental choice. And Larissa's young people and not only, students and students through their struggles that have taken place over the past period have responded to the government's policy limiting their rights and strengthening authoritarianism and terrorism, as they have done in recent days on the occasion of this incident, students, teachers, student clubs, mass organizations in the city, condemning the particular incident and arbitrary police. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u69	You are well aware that trade union statements do not express the official position of the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police and the political leadership. And many times they express personal positions or appreciations of their representatives, far from the positions of associations and federations. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u70	Do they, however, or not "oil on fire" such statements, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u71	I think I have been placed on this and it is not a matter of the Ministry to be mentioned and apologise for positions of various trade unions. My statement was clear. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight a point I have made on several occasions in particular over the last few years. The aim of the Opposition is to create a concept of supposedly existence of a police which is confronted with our new citizens, a police which has become more sensitive to youth and especially to minors. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The protection of minors is a top priority in the newly developed anti-criminal policy programme for 2020-2024. It has been drawn up on a dominant basis to fully respect human rights and, in particular, children's rights, both to prevent them from displaying criminal activity and to protect them from being remembered. The ongoing initiatives to strengthen the already increased awareness of all police personnel in the performance of their duties, in particular those of secretaries, are also of crucial importance in the context of the fact that every child has fundamental rights which should be respected to the full. I am therefore tabling a document in the Minutes of this House listing the main objectives of these targeted actions developed by the Greek Police to protect minors more effectively. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Such initiatives are, of course, also initiatives that have been taken in a final and operational organisation, with a view to achieving a better implementation of these actions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to stop being on the same show. It is time for the public debate to obtain those elements that will make political confrontation fertile and beneficial for the progress of our country. It is necessary to achieve something so important that we have a self-confidence opposition, emanating from positions, proposals and solutions to the modern challenges of our society and not an opposition fortified behind a political speech full of stereotypes that can easily be termed a one-way if not a one-tony one. I very briefly hope that the distance will be covered in the direction of what I have unfortunately seen is still there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u72	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with the fifth timely question under number 640-1-4-2021 first cycle of the H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Participatory practices by the Government'. Good morning, Mrs Sakorafa, and congratulations on your presidency at the SINGA. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you will allow me first of all to welcome the political responsibility and courage of Mr Chrysochide, who, although present in the Chamber, has commissioned you to answer this question. Minister, our question came to be discussed today, because there was at the last moment a change in the planned date, of course, on the part of the Ministry. It is a small evil, because unfortunately I would say that it is still timely. Unacceptable police interventions in New Izmir on 7-32021 revealed a serious issue about the functioning of our democracy. The government to communicate with the convicted events that had been made public in addition to the usual misinformation, went one step further. A document on public dialogue was issued, 'non paper' by the ruling party, coming - as they say - directly from the Prime Minister's office, from Maximos. Its content was unfortunately also reproduced by New Democracy MPs on social media and mass media, such as Mr. Ioannis Papapas and Mr. Kostas Kyanakis. So you gave the name of the victim of police violence to this particular event, the notorious metallic globe, the "stop hurt". In addition to the elements of the citizen you gave him a specific identity policy, you charged him with joining a specific organisation, as well as participation in recent mobilisations. The above proves to be abundantly clear and professed, Minister, that there is an active state mechanism for monitoring and recording the activity of Greek citizens for each use, and not legally, a mechanism that involves the highest levels of government or even worse than the organisational mechanism of the ruling party. The unlawful nature is obvious, both in terms of the collection of information and in terms of their processing and disclosure. These illegitimate actions are either a pure para-state, either services of your own responsibility or services which are directly subordinate to the main prime minister, such as the NSA, or in combination with the above. For these reasons, I ask you: What is the knowledge and participation of the Ministry's political leadership in all this? What are the perpetrators of all these actions? And, finally, does the leadership of your ministry assume the corresponding political responsibility, or is it all about collective government policy? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Before I enter the essence of this timely question, I would like to express my warmest congratulations on your election, Mrs Sakorafa, in the position of President of the ESA. I hope from heart to heart that the new tasks you are taking in a historical federation, at a time when classical sport is crucial. I am sure that your long-term and long-term experience in sport will make a decisive contribution to the new page that goes back for the federation by taking on your new duties. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary scrutiny procedure enables us to highlight the key and essential issues of public interest. The government has been constantly seeking to upgrade political dialogue since the first time the country's responsibility for governance has been being assumed. It is essential that political controversy in this Chamber should be brought to fruition, that all of us should not be in a political context, in substance arbitrarily legitimised. Our political positions must always be based on elements if they are to be made sense and content. However, while we look carefully at the contents of the question under discussion, one finds that this is not always self-evident. In the light of the individual issues raised through it, I should first like to point out the obvious. The mass trafficking of a video on social media must all accept that it makes its content directly, almost instantly known to the vast majority of society that are the users of these instruments today. Each of us can identify acquaintances of persons and situations because of this very velocity and scope to travel the information contained in it. It is therefore obvious that anyone who knows something about it may, in turn, make public part or all of these elements which can then travel from one end to the next by informing or even misinforming the public. This was the case in this case. In all cases, however, cases relating to personal data and to compliance with them are issues which fall primarily within the sphere of competence of Greek justice and the respective independent principles that our Constitution defines for this purpose. As far as the movement of information is concerned, as you say, between Members of a party of the government majority in this regard and their disclosure by some of them, I am sorry, but I cannot go along with that, in other words, that this is the subject of parliamentary scrutiny by the government. For those who insist on the contrary, I believe that they will even agree that these issues belong to the sphere of parliamentary ethics, and yet they are not matters on which the government is competent to provide information or explanations. All of these of course are issues that the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetritis, has raised primarily with his position, in reply to your colleague a few days ago during the parliamentary procedure. However, I would like to focus on what is being put through this timely question about the alleged existence of some kind of active state or party mechanism for monitoring and recording the activities of citizens operating outside the law. This is an attempt to create impressions in which you systematically insist. But in vain. So I want to make this clear in the clearest way. All the services which, by the Constitution and our legal order, are responsible for maintaining public order and security have a clearly defined legal framework of operation and act within it exclusively under the continuous control of parliamentaryism and Greek justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you too, Minister. Mrs Sacorafa, as far as your election was concerned, it was just and it was done. I'll give you three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. First of all, I believe that the wishes of the Minister are sincere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u78	I didn't expect such nice wishes from this side to be honest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u79	So I thank him from the heart. Minister, thank you for your wishes, but with all due respect you will allow me to say that or you do not understand - and I do not want to offend you - or pretend that you do not understand what I asked you. So I asked you directly if you 'false' citizens. I asked you this with the absolute meaning of the word, as we have known it and experienced it over time by Eleftherios Venizelos with the same name, Metaxas, the dictatorial right and the junta. And despite the fact that the well-known files were burned, state security continued to work in the same way even on SYRIZA. I read from a 2018 paper deposit of a police officer who is still serving in the state. He says: "Nearly 16: 00 boarded the U.S.A. at Omonia Station, he was disembarked at Piraeus Station and he was pedestrian to Korai Square through the Heroon Polytechnic Street where he participated in a gathering of Olympiacos fans against the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotos". I'll testify to you. Yours is not - paper says that this citizen is known to the police, Minister. He says it belongs to a specific political organisation, that he was involved in the attack on the Ministry of Health, which was a mere protest. Where is he from, Minister? Has he been arrested? Has he been convicted? Has he been charged? No, of course not. So one of the state officials watched him and wrote a report like the one I read to you earlier. State security, therefore, and the famous State-protection section of the democratic constitution are working precisely to serve, you will allow me to say their title and no security and no protection of the democratic constitution. And the criteria for citizens suspected of the state and dangerous to the democratic community are identical. Who is she, then? It is their anti-government view and action. I would add the reason, too, is their fear, Minister. It is the fear of the government of SYRIZA after his disgusting "no" of 2015, where the government first overturned the will of its people and the fear of your own government today for the political impoverishment of the people, for the sale of their property, public and private and the repression you have imposed. It is the fear of every government that, in its knowledge, deceives the people and certainly continues to impoverish them with its policy. So the first part of my question may not be answered by you, but reality answers it. "Have the people" to be able to threaten them, blackmail them if they dare to protest against government policy. You will allow me to say, and I am not referring to you personally, in general, to the government, that they are worthy followers of the ETUC. And if you think my expression is too much, maybe it'll be mild, I'd say to you, let's see who this 'false' was useful. Of course it seemed to the government. In completing its democratic work, the state has been'saving' - market expression and obscene in my own energy - the elements in Maximos, which Maximos, as he has confessed, channelled them to his parliamentarians. You're the first and only ones in time to do it. You upgraded the work of the parastate. The definition of the term 'parrotarian' is poor to describe this practice. And you come here today and you develop theories and smash interpretations that expose you even more, Minister. That is why I repeat my questions to Maximos, whoever this title represents, rhetorically, and I do not expect any answer. Who out there knew that the freckles were still on to ask for evidence from the state? Who from there considered it legal to leak them to the MPs, circumventing any sense of democracy? And I repeat my questions to you demanding answers. Did you, Mr. Chrysochoidis or any of your superiors order illegal surveillance, or have you ordered illegal surveillance and a citizens' hammer? If you ignore it, rhetoric again is the case, have you ordered any investigation into how this file was created and how it leaked? We are talking about illegal data collection, illegal disposal and illegal use, that is, the definition of the function of the parastate, as I have said before. Can you answer these questions, Minister? If you do not specifically answer my questions, Mr Minister, it might be better to allow me to say not to use your right to secondary education. And I say that to protect you, because any evasion of yours will be a confession and knowledge and covertness, but it will be on your part and cover up the mechanism of what we call a mechanism - a para-state. I, Minister, will be allowed to tell you that I will continue to ask and look. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs Sacorafa. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, as has been pointed out in the past, our country is a mature urban democracy, part of the hard core of the great European family. He is a member of all European and international organisations that defend peace, democracy and human rights. It is a political regression to be heard in the sphere of public dialogue in 2021 characterisations such as a police state and to launch inviolable serious characterisations of the existence and functioning of the para-state mechanisms. Truly, how many similarities do all those who, with a characteristic preoccupation, support such positions as how the modern Greek state operates with the tyrannical regimes of Franco, Pinochet, Baptista and Castle that were commonly operating on the basis of a police state? Such arbitrary findings imply the complete disconnection of some parties from today's reality, but also from the struggles of all those who set up their stature so that we can live today in a modern democratic city, a guarantor of individual freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to restore the concept of certain words at last. It is high time we left behind a long period of time when we systematically abused words and concepts, just to trigger an already electricityed by the same political climate. All of us, the government and, in particular, the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, taking full account of the current challenges, are determined to continue to fulfil our mission decisively, respecting the democratic requirements of our civilisation towards all those who consciously adopt as a political option to cultivate tension and division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Have a good day to both of you. We move on with the fourth under number 635/30-3-2021 topical question from the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vasiliou Viliardou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The exclusion of freelance professionals from the temporary pension". Mr. Villardo, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. Thank you for your presence. It is well known that there are a large number of outstanding applications for retirement, over three hundred and fifty thousand, according to the 'Kathemerini' that characterises the issue with the words 'disappearance' and 'haus', as we will submit to the Minutes and all the rest that we will mention. It is a huge inadequacy, if not incompetent for the final state and for the famous digital governance, which we all pay extremely expensively, when the public at the same time entrusts the supply of rapid test EUR 20 million to a controversial company, SWISS MED, which has nothing to do with Switzerland and which was founded just seven months ago, having been able to win two assignments. The Ministry, under the regulations of the Ministry, which specialises in the legislation of Article 34 of Law No 4778/2021, is introducing a temporary pension from EUR 360 to EUR 384, depending on the time of insurance and age, with a minimum of fifteen years of insurance. In any case, the minimum temporary pension is obviously not sufficient to meet the needs, and the solution of the computer questions and the performance of the final pension should be immediately initiated. For the calculation of the time, account shall be taken of the successive insurance time to any primary insurance entity designated by e-ECA, as certified in particular by the computerised data available on e-ECA. However, we are told that some categories of pension seekers have been excluded, and you are indirectly admitting this in your statement that by the end of the year there will be a reduction in outstanding pensions. Therefore, some will stay without pension. This is the case where we are told that they are the free professionals of the former OSCE who were absorbed by the OSCE, on the basis of the provisions of Presidential Decree 258/2005, because many of them had remained uninsured during the crisis. In particular, Article 11 of Presidential Decree 258/2005 refers to an end to the insurance relationship, such as a permanent cessation of occupation, interruption of voluntary insurance and bankruptcy. Therefore, the article refers to difficult situations for the citizens, whom the state faces with incredible analgesia, especially the free professionals who do everything in order to manage their business. Our questions here are as follows: First, is it true that pensioners have been exempted from temporary retirement? If so, how many are and why have they been excluded? Secondly, is it true that members of the former OSH who have ceased payment of contributions for any reason, even if they have reached the threshold of 15 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Chacloglu, good morning. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. Mr Villardo, I have mentioned several times from the Step of the House on this major issue of outstanding pensions and on intensification of the actions taken by both the Ministry and the ECA to deal with this problem together. Three are the main axes on which the strategy to address this chronic issue has been outlined. The first axis includes the advance payment of the amount of the national pension to all applicants for pensions pending the adoption of the Retirement Decision recently adopted. That is what your question is about. This is a purely relief measure, which alone aims to limit the consequences of the pensioners' candidates because of administrative weaknesses. In no case shall this measure replace the submission of their normal pension, which will normally be attributed to the amount laid down on the basis of the insured person's insurance history. The second axis includes all those actions relating to the provision of all possible assistance to EVO by the Government at the level of organisation, human resources and logistics, so that the stack of outstanding pensions will soon be significantly reduced. More specifically: a special group of hundred retired former ECA officials has been activated with experience in the field of pension awards. It is expected that the pension awards will be increased by eighty-six new recruits. There has already been provision for a cash bonus for officials who will deal with all stages of the growth of pension records beyond their normal employment. There is a strengthening of ECA staff with human resources by other public sector bodies, chambers and professional associations, for the award of pensions. At the same time, the renewal of the logistical infrastructure of the organisation with modern-generation computers has already begun. At the same time, a specific project group has been set up with the head of a project manager specifically for outstanding pensions, and private sector assistance, through certified lawyers and tax officers, is also being considered to assist the pension process. The third axis relates to the intention of the Ministry and its administration to deal with the problem in a permanent and definitive way. I am referring, of course, to the action to digitalise insurance records, as, as we all understand, this is the only way to get rid of the problem of outstanding pensions. To this end, in fact, resources from the Recovery Fund will be used to speed up the procedures as much as possible. Now, in relation to your specific question, Mr Villarde, I would first like to clarify something that is rather unclear and may raise questions. The advance payment of the national pension is not related to the granting of the temporary pension. Temporary pension is another thing. I mentioned earlier that the advance payment of the national pension is a relief measure related to the delay in the adoption of a definitive pension decision. From the wording of your question, you seem to be confusing these two categories of beneficiaries, because you refer to the temporary pension, whereas the context suggests that you may mean the advance. The information I will present right now concerns the development of the submission of claims for the advance payment of a national pension. I would remind you that beneficiaries of an advance payment of a national pension are all those who have applied for old age, disability or death and all those who have not been insured for a temporary pension. The amounts shall also cover retroactively, as from the date of submission of the pension application. That is, if you submit it now and you had ten months before you submitted your pension application, you can retroactively take all these ten months. Now, by the end of March, they entered the relevant electronic platform set up for this purpose about fifty-four thousand citizens. The total number of applications was about forty thousand, and some thirty-six of them went through the treatment phase in order for beneficiaries to receive the pension advance and retrospectives before Easter, according to the assurances of the competent body. With regard to the applications rejected, this was as the applicants either received a pension or applied for international pensions not previously included in the categories listed or the decision on invalidity certification was pending by the competent Committee of CEPD. Allow me to say that most of the applications related to the members of the former OGA - twelve thousand three hundred applications - of the former IKA - ETA - eight thousand nine hundred applications - and of the former OAU, to which your question refers, with eight and a half thousand applications. I would remind you here, because it is very important, that the digital platform will remain open both to those who have not finalised their application until now, and to those for whom the pension is pending, who want to apply and receive it in the future. In other words, this thing that had been released in the press too, that it was until 31 March, until 31 March, was for those who would be cleared and taken before Easter. The platform, however, remains open and is also for future use. Mr Villarde, we are well aware that the situation with outstanding pensions is afflicting the citizens and we really owe both the Ministry's political leadership and the administration of the ECA to resolve the problem as quickly as possible. I've gone far beyond my time. I will return to my dentology with the exceptions and the candidate pensioners of the former OAU with debts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Chacloglu, this is a serious matter, so don't worry, that's why I left you. There is no question of time when it comes to pensions and people. Mr. Villarde, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u87	Thank you for the answer, Minister. Perhaps I did not understand, but I will repeat the question that you did not answer. I had asked whether it is true that the former OAU has been exempted from paying contributions for any reason, even if they have reached the 15-year-old minimum. You may have answered, but I didn't get it. In my dentistry now. The regulation does not include, even in temporary retirement, thousands of people who have no other resource, while Minister Hatzidakis says everywhere he cares about these people. Almost crying in the House, I am literally hoping it was not hypocrisy, wondering how these people live. However, there are proposals from the Citizens' Counselor on the matter, which is resolved once and for all, without harming anyone, neither the state nor the citizen, given that, until the outbreak of the crisis, only the governments, especially the New Democracy in the period 2004-2009, the majority of the insured have paid over twenty years, so more than fifteen years. A key issue is that many of the former OAU members who were unable to pay their contributions do not even have medical treatment when they even have any illegal immigrants. I shall return to a letter which has been sent to us by the many we get almost daily, whether the Ministry is aware of and helps the individual and many others who have problems with them. Here he writes: "I am a Greek citizen, eighty years old without pension and no medical cover, due to debts in TEBE, but to whom I have paid for for forty-three years contributions without having received any benefits. By 2017, I received a rent from a property that was my only income, but where my rent was confiscated by tax on debts in 2017. However, I am obliged to declare this an income and tax something that I do not receive. The bank, to which I have a rest of the housing loan, considers the rent that has been seized by me by tax, so, because I am unable to pay the monthly instalment of EUR 350, it takes away my home in the auction. This man is eighty years old. So, often dense moments come that I would really like to be an immigrant in this country, because at the time I would receive at least one allowance and have medical treatment. But I am born of Greek citizens and I am not entitled to anything." These are written by the eighty - year - old man, who has absolutely no resource to live. Finally, the deadline for lodging applications, as you mentioned earlier, is deemed to have expired on 31-3-2021. As you said, however, the platform remains open, so the question is unnecessary. What we would like to ask is for an extension to resolve these objections. Our questions here are as follows: First, how do you plan to solve the problem with the pending pensions of the EUPM? Secondly, how do you intend to cover all outstanding pensions and support our fellow citizens until the temporary pension is issued and, if necessary, offset against the final pension? And finally, until when will the final pension be issued? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr Villarde, first of all - first of all - on the strategy on outstanding pensions, I mentioned in detail my prototype and I will not say anything else. In the part to which you referred in this letter, too, I am not going to go into that. After all, you did not have them in your letter so that I could prepare. But I can say a few general things. In particular, I would like to stay on two points. The first concerns the medical care you mentioned. Recently, it was passed in the House of Law that gives cover to everyone for medical treatment. So what you're asking me is rather unobjection is not right what you're talking about. The second is this. For those who do not have a pension, there is a retirement pension for all of them. Therefore, I do not understand how this particular pensioner of your letter nor receives a pension, a pension for the elderly. Something is wrong with these things you're telling me, but in any case, if you like, I can see it later, not now on the question. Now, I would like to repeat that we fully understand the criticality of the situation, and that is why the Ministry's administration, in cooperation with the administration of the ECA, is trying every day to reduce the consequences of the citizens' situation, because of the situation that has been created. With regard to the categories excluded from the advance payment of a national pension, let me make it clear that the granting of the advance, as it goes without saying, is without prejudice to the case where there are insurance contributions debts the amount of which exceeds the limits laid down by the law. We didn't make a new law, we apply the law exactly as it existed. What are these amounts here? And that is why the truth is that we are discussing some changes. So, it's not that what you've given, it's okay, you're gonna retire. How many will remain again. At the moment it is 20,000 euros for the insured of the former OAU, 15 000 euros for the insured in the former EIF and 6000 euros for the insured of the former OGA. These insured persons, whose contributions run below the limits I have just mentioned, are normally entitled to an advance payment of a national pension, as are all other beneficiaries whose debt will be withheld in sixty equal instalments before the final pension decision is adopted. Mr Villarde, I repeat that both the granting of the pension advance and the temporary pension are intended to provide temporary financial assistance for the beneficiaries of the main pension. They do not replace pensions, pensions must be taken by people, we understand that, and this was the whole strategy that I said before, to reduce outstanding pensions. But I would like to say, in relation to your question, that we do not make any new pension provisions through these benefits. The aim is to provide candidate pensioners with the financial liquidity they lack for reasons that are not related to themselves. In any case, however, what is valid for the beneficiaries concerned is still valid. The statutory provisions laying down the conditions for retirement for any insured person cannot be changed due to the delay in the time in which the pension is awarded. In other words, what was the case for the former OSH’s insured persons remains valid. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Finally, if I can have some time, I would like to close with an evaluation of the situation. These are elements that have not yet been disclosed. A slow de-escalation in this major problem is beginning to appear. I am not saying that we have overcome this, and I am not saying that the rhythms we are going with are satisfactory. We need to speed up. But I say that the conditions are getting better every day. So far twenty-five thousand digital pensions have been issued, and so, as I have told you in my prototype, the strategic objective we have set for the definitive restoration of the issue is the full digitisation of the insurance history of insured persons. In addition, in January, the outstanding pensions were, for the main pensions, always speaking, because the rest of the pensions you said stemmed from the main pension, that is, for example, from the number of three hundred and fifty thousand that you said, is not so many. But, in any case, many of them are subsidiary. You don't get the assistance if the main pension doesn't come out, so that's our main attempt. In January the outstanding pensions amounted to about fifty - five thousand. Of the latest data we have available, we seem to have dropped to thirty - nine thousand. In view of the time spent on the time we are talking about, which is practically one quarter, I think we are in the right direction. Do we have to do more? Yes, it has to be done. The road is difficult, we all understand that. However, this first, small de-escalation shows us that we are going in the right direction and that our strategy, both in the Ministry and in the management of the institution, had begun to produce results. I sincerely hope that by the end of the year all the outstanding pensions will have been considerably reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. We move to the first with number 647/5-2021 on the second question of the Member of Parliament for Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Agreement to the acquisition of employees of shop in a shop from the special purpose compensation measure'. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are aware of this. I'm sure of it. It is for workers to return to a shop from the special-purpose compensation measure. The coronary pandemic has affected all sectors of the economy and the workforce. A measure implemented by the Government since the pandemic which concerns the minimum protection of workers is related to the procedure for suspending the contract of employment in conjunction with the special purpose compensation. A year, Minister, after the outbreak of the pandemic, the Government has decided to take new measures to rationalise the use of the measure and, in March 2021, to put off suspensions of some fifty thousand businesses and to deprive thousands of workers of special purpose compensation. Particularly characteristic examples are workers working on behalf of large groups of cosmetics, who are employed in enterprises that promote these cosmetics and manage the standards in the cosmetics shops. These are shops which, on the mandate of the public authority, remain closed even today. The workers, however, continue to be unemployed, since the shops are closed. However, for the month of March 2021 they lacked the special purpose compensation, because their employers themselves had an increase in turnover - known and self-evident - on the nineth of April - December 2020 compared to the nine months of 2019. Cosmetic businesses, however, Minister, in March, had their shops closed off by decision of the public authority and therefore all business around the industry is prohibited (sellers, sellers, promoters, promotionists, etc.).). Their employers, who are not shops, but cosmetic groups - these are employers - claim that the shops are not closed with their own fault, but by decision of the public authority and therefore do not owe staff salaries for the time they do not have to do with them. It is a problem that creates salmonism, if I may say so, in this process. Minister, how does the government deal with this and what do you respond to the companies that have sent you and too many documents to enable them to submit the relevant declarations so that workers can receive the special compensation in March 2021? Do you intend to include, even retrospectively, this category of workers in beneficiaries of special purpose compensation? And if so, is there a timeline? Or are there any other additional measures you intend to take or are you thinking about taking? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Chacloglu, as you know, you have three minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Mulkiotis, I would again like to thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to refer again, for once again, to an issue which concerns a pandemic in COVID -19 in the targeted interventions and protection measures taken by the Government and the Ministry of Labour, with the sole aim of strengthening employment and the protection of workers against the economic consequences that pandemic has caused and continues to cause. With the additional measures announced today by the Ministry of Labour on Tuesday, March 29th, the Ministry of Labour in April, the total budget for the protection of workers in suspension and the unemployed only exceed EUR 7.1 billion, while the total number of beneficiaries only exceeds our three million fellow citizens. The figures I give you are not two simple figures. In fact, this is the largest public intervention programme that has implemented a government to protect workers and the unemployed from relocation to date. And all this despite the constraints imposed by the level of public debt. The measures for April have an estimated cost of EUR 695 million and workers in undertakings in the territory which are significantly affected may be placed on temporary suspension of a contract of employment and are beneficiaries of a special purpose compensation, proportionate to the period to be suspended, calculated on the basis of the amount of EUR 534 per month. For the above period, the full insurance contributions, calculated not at EUR 534 but at the employee’s nominal salary, are to be covered proportionally by the State budget. Now, why am I saying all this, Mr. Mulkiotis? I've answered a lot of your questions, and really, I have to admit that it's sober and sober. I was very impressed by this. You refer to your question as alleged measures. So, what's all this supposed to be? Near 40 billion euros we are almost spending on support for businesses and workers in two years' time, in a country which is indebted to the neck. Mr. Villards behind you, who I see is moving his head, has written it several times, has written about the public debt in the country. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Now, to come to this particular issue, your question concerns a very specific category of workers. In particular, as you say, it concerns workers and workers on behalf of large groups of cosmetics employed in enterprises that promote these cosmetics and manage the standards in cosmetics shops. According to information from the relevant services of the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate, there are different and distinct categories of workers employed in a department store, a cosmetic store or a mall. There is a first category of workers employed in a retail shop, which operates with its own VAT system within a large store. There is also a second category of workers, whose physics employers are exactly what you say in your question, large groups of cosmetics, but their job is, as you say, to manage the standards in the cosmetics shops. In the first case, we have a separate legal person, i.e. workers in a retail store operating within a department store and can sell, for example, clothing, footwear or cosmetics, as in your question. In the second case, we have workers who are behind the stand and who are making a promotional action of a product. That is, indeed, something quite different. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr Mulkiotis, as you can see, the crucial element is who is the natural employer of the workers in the cosmetics standards. As you say, their natural employer is the large groups of cosmetics, which, according to your question - I repeat mot à mot - had an increase in turnover in the nine months of April - December 2020, compared with the same nine months of 2019. As you know, companies that have an increase in turnover in 2020 do not belong - and they must not already belong - to companies affected because they have increased their turnover and we cannot go to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u94	The workers, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u95	Obviously, they will not be in the category of firms affected. Therefore, workers in these enterprises who have an increase in turnover are not covered by the special-purpose compensation. One thing I didn't understand in your question is this: Are there people left without a wage? This is clearer, not whether or not they have received special purpose compensation. I will tell you in my denture that there is no such complaint either in the APRC or elsewhere, in some department in the Ministry. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing on several occasions.]] In any case, I will respond to the denunciation, because I have exceeded my time again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u97	Minister, I don't know why you're surprised about the wording. Yes, when it says rationalisation and that we have taken measures, these are supposedly measures, because they are 50 000 companies outside, but these companies have workers. I repeat, they have workers and they stay out. They're having a situation. That's the basic thing. So here's the thing. There are many complaints and many requests and questions to the Ministry. There was also the information that the previous political leadership had been the subject of the matter lately. The issue, this issue, for the shop in the shop, was raised for these workers. I think it is possible for the Ministry to check whether the workers are entitled to the allowance, either in view of the "ERGANI" where the worker's place of work is declared, or with a responsible employer's statement and a posteriori check, as well as with the CAR. Because here it is the CAR, whether or not it is affected. However, the amendment and the measures that have been taken most of the CSR have been correctly excluded and there is a similar procedure. But here we have an issue with these workers. Because we consider it provocative in the midst of developments that see the light of publicity and concern a number of issues, these people are staying in a situation of problematic nature. Yes, indeed, they work at the stand. We know what it's like. And the public says for some reasons 'we're closing'. However, there is a problem with those firms which have been cut by them now have to support themselves the wage costs of their staff. They have a matter and because the other staff has been suspended. They are business, it says, open, that started operating before January 2018, they did not open branches after April 2019, but they still had an increase in turnover. We say so, they had an increase in turnover compared with 2019, but there was no care for collateral losses. 'While' the side-effects. The Ministry of Finance could, in cooperation and after your own intervention, exclude SARs. And we'll tell you some specific CARs and tell you why. There is a decision, Minister, that 13/179 FEC II 1200/29-32021 amending the existing FSA for suspensions and procedures with the SAR. And it says in paragraph (c) of this specific decision ‘includes specific SMRs from 1-3-2021 for enterprises with main or secondary SMRs’ and is 85.10.0, 85.20.10.0, 85.31.0, 85.31.10.0. The criteria for sub-case (b) shall not be considered and may go to suspension of contracts of employment of workers as defined in paragraph (a) in accordance with the provisions. In other words, the OHIM previously amended for SMRs that I mentioned to you to join this procedure. This solution may be given. That's what we're asking. It's a world that's affected right now. Who is the CAR, Minister? Listen to me and see how the procedures already refer to him. The SMR is 70.22.0.0.0.0 and is called ‘business advisory activities and other management advice’. That's how this CAR comes out. And it excludes these businesses that employ these people. We believe that there must be a political will for these people who have this treatment. They can't get herds in such a process. That is the point, Minister, the exceptions to the rationalisation that was supposed to exist. That is why we are saying 'Not all'. Because there are so many thousands of businesses out of hand with the CARs that seem unaffected, but there are also how many thousands of workers. That's self-evident. That's why we say it, don't be surprised. In this sense, I must give this explanation. So we ask the government to see this if he has not seen it. Because our information is that there are many requests, and in any case we will collect them and submit them back to the Ministry, to see how the whole process can take a positive turn for the workers who have a problem. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u98	Be well, Mr. Mulkiotis. Mr. Chacloglu, for you three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mulkiotis, you understand that they're being hit with an increase in turnover...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u100	Without disagreeing with what you said, Minister, on the measures taken and the other measures. In addition, we have asked for them, they have been adopted, and they have indeed been done. We are talking, however, about some issues that remain empty in that sense. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u101	Just what I'm saying is that it's what the British 'contradition in terms' say, that is what we call 'internal contradiction' in Greek. That is why I said that what you say about supposedly rationalisation simply does not stand in this particular case. With regard to the suspension of workers' contracts during the month of March 2021, employers who are affected by the CAR designated by the Ministry of Finance may suspend their workers' contracts with a responsible statement in the ERGAN information system in accordance with the terms and conditions of the March Joint Ministerial Decision. Workers whose contracts are suspended shall be beneficiaries of special purpose compensation pro rata on a pro rata basis of the days of the suspension of their contracts on the basis of a calculation of the amount of EUR 534 corresponding throughout the month of March. They are also provided with full insurance cover on the nominal salary. I also mentioned these in my prototype. We are now coming to the businesses you refer to with your question. Cosmetic groups which have increased their turnover from 1 April 2020 to 31 December 2020 in relation to the corresponding periods of 2019 shall obviously not be considered to be affected undertakings and may not suspend their workers’ contracts of employment. I would like to take this step in confirming that, in the event that there are phenomena of non-paid wages for workers in these enterprises, the Ministry of Labour and the AAR will apply the existing labour legislation in full. However, as I said at the end of my prototype, according to the information received from both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Labour, there has so far been no complaint in this regard. If you have any such information, I'd be obliged if you could give it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-09-S1-commons.u103	With the consent of the House at 11.55; the sitting on Monday, 12 April 2021, at 14.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate. Thank you all in and out of the Chamber. Have a good weekend! Holy Mary with you!
