ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 31-8-2021, the minutes of its PP sessions were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Tuesday 31 August 2021, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: (a) of 5.8.2021 Act of Legislative Content "Extended measures to address the risk of fires" (A 138) and (b) of 13.8.2021 Act of Legislative Area "Extended measures to protect the effective and rapid restoration of the natural environment, to support the fires affected by July/August 2021 and related provisions" (A'143) and other provisions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 3 September 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1007/30-8-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Complete abandonment of the facilities of the National Sport Centre (ESC) Corfu from the ND government". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 994/30-8-2021 of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “The abolition of the “Sport for All” programme. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1011/30-8-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Supporting, unfair and irrational charges for banks against citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 995/30-8-2021 of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "To permanentize contracted workers in the care of the University of Crete". 3. The question by number 998/30-8-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Awards of Archaeologists - Librarians for the operation of the National Library and of public libraries". Today the Antigens and the Athenians celebrate. On behalf of all of us, many years have passed on to Mrs Perifanos who has her celebration, but also to all her ombudsmen within and outside Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that a timely question will be discussed today. It is the question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct satisfaction of all applications for children's education in nursery - children's stations and creative employment centres". The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou, will answer. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, every year, the same and the same. For another year and this year, thousands of children, over eighty thousand, namely eighty-three thousand, sixty-three, are excluded from nursery schools and creative employment centres. As is well known, a total of two hundred and fifty thousand eighty-three applications have been submitted from which only sixty-seven thousand have received the multi-storey coupon, with which they are entitled to a place at either a child's station or a creative employment centre, the well-known CSR. So let us say it exactly the way it is, Minister. This choice of your Ministry and Government to reject tens of thousands of child applications is only a choice of analgesia. Yeah, pure analgesia. Even when? At the beginning of a year like this year, which is the third consecutive year with COVID -19 and which begins with a lot of acute problems for children, which were not generally experienced by COVID -19, but by the way your government managed this pandemic. So what did your government do? He applied the so-called terrible tactic "head hurts, cuts head". In particular, under the pretext of non-proliferation of the virus, the government closed pre-primary structures for the whole of last year rather than taking all the appropriate measures, which could be fine to take, in order for these structures to function healthly. What did this have to do with it? I think it's not hard to imagine. Huge and negative consequences. First of all, for their own children and psychosomatic needs, for such a vital need in the group, I repeat in team, game, for the very process of socialisation, which is a most critical process with social consequences of course in general. However, there were consequences for their parents, for all those young couples of people's classes in which, apart from the job insecurity you and your government have led them along with the employer, you have charged them from above and as an exclusive individual and family responsibility and everything concerning the health of their children. You loaded them up to the epidemiological surveillance of their children. So, if we do not, Minister, ask you directly - and this is a very specific question - whether you intend to satisfy all of you, that is, the two hundred and fifty thousand applications of the programme for children's stations and CSR? You can make it, you know. There's always time when there's a will. You only need to approve, as a government, emergency funding to make the necessary recruitments and, of course, to create those structures which are needed to meet all these needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u3	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Good month. Mr President, I have heard you say 'to speak as it is'. And what I've heard they say and I think quite successful is that the covert truth, that is half-truth, is worse than a whole lie. So what is the covert truth? What is the half-truth that you are presenting and, indeed, you are in agreement - very few times too often - with the Civic Opposition, by the mouth of its own leader? The covert truth, half the truth or else the lie is this: You say in writing and orally that eighty-three thousand children are left out of daycare stations and creativity centres. No one, but no child left last year or this year, who are implementing the programme outside kindergartens. No child. And not only did no child stay out of nursery stations and creativity centres for disabled people, but we also increased income limits so that 20% more children can join nurseries than when we received, in 2019. And that's why? Because, from the beginning of my priority, the Ministry's priority, above all the Prime Minister's own, is pre-school education and giving our children, especially children, the skills that they need. So you know that all these years were running the so-called 'co-financed programme', what moms know as the NRP. The co-financed programme therefore incorporated into it families, a family with one or two children, up to 27,000 mixed income. What did we do? We corrected the JRC in particular - and I would expect the JRC to agree with us here - and especially nursery and preschool education, we incorporated the women's civil servants, who have been in this very great injustice. She came and found me alone in the office to thank us for correcting this injustice for decades. Who was that? Civil servants who had a low income or an income equal to private employees could not receive a coupon for their children. So I'm going back to it and I'm going to have a little more time in dentistry: no child left out of daycare. More children than any other year have entered nurseries, because we have also incorporated public women and increased income limits from EUR 27,000 to EUR 33,000 for a family with one or two children. So no child other than infants, no child outside centres for creative employment for disabled people. There are also political priorities here. What's going on? We had a doubling of applications for Creative Employment Centers, that is, where children don't go to a full-day school, their families don't choose primary school children to go to a full-day school and go to creative employment centers this afternoon. This is completely different from kindergartens. It was the government's absolute priority. No child is out of childcare. We have put more children, as we have put more children in the centres of creative employment for disabled people where the government's independent living for disabled people is very high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u6	That's an interesting answer from the Minister. You know, however, you answered a question that I didn't ask you. I didn't ask you if there were kids out of the children's station last year. I asked you about the fact that this year eighty-three thousand children were excluded from the right to a coupon, that is to say, from the right to attend a kindergarten, because if they don't get this coupon, no one can know if they have the possibility of paying a nursery in their pocket. So for this year, I ask you, Minister, and for this year you have not answered. You want to tell us they'll be subsidised, they'll get a coupon and eighty-three thousand of these kids? But I wish we could hear it from your own mouth and say it. However, in any event, avoiding the answer confirms, in our view, that the government's decision was preconceived - we do not charge you personally - with which thousands of child applications have been rejected and the statements on the contrary have been hypocritical once again. But should we think, Minister, and that is what we want to say about what this large number of applications are being rejected? Does it not show the great needs of pre-school education? Of course it reveals them. And not all of you know, but only a part of the total real needs, since as you know very well from thousands of families, you still lack this right to apply for this programme, for the grant package, which is why we are asking you, by putting on the well-known conditions for participation which, of course, are not just incomes. So what are you up to? You put cutters and you come after and you justify, you raise these conditions, but the income criteria remain and you come then and you justify and you hide behind these conditions that you put and say: "But they do not meet the conditions. What can we do? Excluded.’ But are we really asking you, Minister, what does it mean to make conditions for a child to participate in scientificly organized pre-school education? For us, for the Communist Party of Greece, it is enough, Mrs Michailidou, once and for all, the condition of childhood. For you, for your Government, for your system capitalist not suffices for childhood, you have to say other conditions of income, social. Is that scientific? Is this a pedagogical approach to man's most decisive age? Of course it isn't. This is a narrow, reactionary, economic concept in which the universal right of children to pre-school education is ruthlessly sacrificed. That is why last year you chose to close preschool education structures in the pandemic instead of shielding them with all the necessary health measures. That is why you choose the conscious state funding of pre-school education, because it is the most sure way to provide it, and that is what you say growth, a sub-financing that is against the ever-increasing, because that is how it is done, children's needs are repeated consistently every year with the literally improperly inadequate sums of the programme of coups that are never and never reach for all the children who need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u7	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. And this underfunding, Mr President, has cause and cause, and this is the most important, is broadly indicated in the same objective of this subsidised programme, a programme entitled 'Let us not forget it: the harmonization of working and family life', not the right to pre-school education, family and working life. It is a programme that confesses and reveals the motivation of the European Union and the urban governments for pre-school education. for its content. The purpose of this programme is therefore not to meet the needs of children for pre-school education, but to increase and maintain the employment of women who benefit from it. It is therefore a childcare and nothing more, which is expected to increase, Mr President, even more at the expense of the need for modern pre-school education and with a new programme to pilot the famous 'Neighbourhood dadads', because instead of the government to take care of the creation of a network of state-owned nurseries, it will be subsidising certified nannies in the neighborhoods to keep the children of working mothers. I think that the right to public pre-school education should also have the right and the duty of the people themselves to defend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u9	Here, Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Delia, you insist on preschool education. You're really insisting on preschool education. And I wonder if you are trying to mislead Parliament or do you not know what is going on? There isn't this year and last year, but this year there's no child who didn't get a coupon for kindergarten, no child, no one. And if you know one not only, I would ask you to come to my office, but to submit it to the Minutes of the Greek Parliament. In preschool treatment there is no child left outside of nursery facilities. And what did we do? I'm telling you not only no child left this year, but we've put more kids in. How? By joining women's civil servants, correcting the injustice of all the previous decades that a woman contracted to the public who earned 600 euros could not get a coupon, but also by increasing income limits. Tell me the Communist Party of Greece does not agree to income criteria? Shouldn't we put the most vulnerable in our programmes first? Should we not start with the most vulnerable, women, single parents, multiple families, families with lower incomes? Doesn't he think we're agreed on this thing? We have already increased income limits. This year no child but daycare. I would ask you to submit this to the national Parliament and, of course, to my office. Preschool education, however, is something different from creative centres and I have not heard you talk about them. Creative employment centres employ creative primary schoolchildren. You know well, you and I and everyone, I think, are following pre-school education. So we can't smack two things into one. We can't tell the truth in a disgusting way. No child left outside of kindergarten. I also want to highlight two things. You tell me if we care. You know that we are the first to talk about the individual amendments, our draft legislation on the 'BYSHLE' programme has already been tabled in the consultation. The first program of the Greek state that sets quality skills standards in the nursery stations. We don't want a child to be connected to his family's income. We want to equip ourselves, help us, support every child so that we can have a equality of opportunity and equality of opportunity too should be in agreement. We do not want the child’s future to be predetermined in relation to his family’s income and whether or not his family can support it. That's why we're quantitatively strengthening nursery stations, no child except for even more children inside, but we also put quality standards and skills in nursery schools. And I'm closing with that, Mr. President. You said we had the structures closed. Don't you remember what happened? Our government is doing what it does, that it strictly follows the protocols to health. Last year the nurseries were the last ones to shut down. They were the last ones who closed just because there wasn't the Delta mutation, which can so easily catch the kids. This year the nurseries were the last to open. Why? Because one in five cases is children. We can't risk that. So we do not have a fixed policy 'what we think is right'. Oh, no. Our policy is fully defined by the experts who, when we are told that there is no great danger for children, we open infantry first and when they tell us that there is a very great risk for children, their families and their grandparents, we open the nursery stations last. Every move we make is indicated by the experts. Thank you and say again: I would like not to listen in the national Parliament to say that we have left children out of daycare facilities. No child out of daycare stations!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u11	You mean to say they'll take all eighty thousand children...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u12	He said 'no child'. What else can he say? Clearer he can't say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u13	He's answering another question!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u14	Mr. President, can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u15	Will they take the coupon and the children rejected?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u16	You're saying eighty-three thousand children were left out of kindergarten. No child out of daycare stations! What did we have? Eighty-three thousand applications outside Creative Employment Centers, not outside kindergartens. No child except for kindergartens. And to be precise in the numbers, we had eighty-three thousand applications outside the hall. Outside Creative Employment Centres it's not even eighty-three thousand. They are eighty-three thousand applications and fifty thousand of them refer to children, because the thirty-three thousand super-blockers are either double registrations, wrong income criteria, or mother and father who together made the application. So we have fifty thousand applications for over-demand in creative employment centres, not in kindergartens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u17	That concludes the debate on the topical and urgent debate. I would ask the Parliamentary Representatives of the parties, which are necessary to define the procedure, to come to the Chamber until 9.45 p.m. So now we're interrupting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Security Reform for New Generation: the introduction of a capitalisation system for predetermined contributions to subsidiary insurance, the establishment, organisation and operation of an Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund and related provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 26 August 2021 to discuss the draft law at two single sittings in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, the discussion of the draft law is proposed to take place in a natural presence by the Members in twelve-member circles including speakers with the ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, from the KKE, the Greek Solution and the Mera25. The names of the speakers have already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the Office has drawn up the list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who wish to be put through a teleconferencing will speak as soon as the speakers have completed their courses in a natural presence. Addendums will not be accepted except for mutual changes. It is also noted that when political leaders receive the floor, the limit of one hundred and twenty present Members will be strictly respected at the plenary session, representing their parliamentary groups as follows: Sixty-four from New Democracy, thirty-four from SYRIZA, eight from the Change Movement, six from the JRC, four from the Greek Solution and four from Mera25. I would like here to ask that speaking time be strictly respected, as there are hundreds of fourteen speakers. We've made a calculation of the leaders' speeches. It is about twenty-seven hours, with a very small tolerance for the rapporteurs. With regard to the rest, I would ask that the time should be respected for all Members to speak. That means that I propose that tonight we go by midnight and tomorrow, where there is no parliamentary control, we start early in the morning and I think that around 9 o'clock at night - we have done the calculations, if it is nine and a half people have not broken - the debate will be over so that if there is a 99% request for a roll-call vote there will be a roll-call vote to start the roll-call vote. Also, as far as I've been aware, an objection of unconstitutionality will be filed. He hasn't been filed yet. In order not to waste time and so that the other groups too can read the objection made by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou - I do not know whether another parliamentary group - will be discussed as soon as the sixth special speaker, namely the two rapporteurs, is finished. Immediately afterwards, the request for unconstitutionality will be discussed and the list will be started. Ladies and gentlemen, in these basic things, in which, if necessary, there will be a change in the course, will you agree as I have told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u19	They are therefore unanimously accepted. I would also like to inform you that the objection of anti-constitutionality has been lodged and will be discussed as soon as Mrs Apajidis comes down from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u20	We are starting the debate with the rapporteur-general from New Democracy, Mr Pericles Manda. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, today I have the pleasure and honour of introducing a pioneering and innovative bill, a bill primarily aimed at the world of work. A bill that introduces stability, confidence and security. A bill aimed solely at the new generation, to all those who, with appetite and ambition, start working life and who have learned that decent pensions are unfortunately something that is not there and their contributions are a forced and unjust expenditure that the state imposes on pensioners today. Who can claim that things are not like this when from their money there is not a single euro left for them, but everything leads to a large basket, to a corpse for the current pensioners? So the problem has become clear for some time and has two legs: on the one hand there is the demographic ageing that plagues the entire developed world. And it is true that as long as conditions and life expectancy are improved, as long as medicine and science advances and as long as our social state grows, insurance and pension distribution systems are pressed and the more the globe will become in favour of the pensioners concerned and at the expense of every new worker. It is precisely this phenomenon that gives us the second part of the problem, the one-dimensional and rigid, the completely and completely distribution system that we have today, which operates well in different circumstances and not in what we have today. When the present system was founded in the 1950s, the ratio of workers to pensioners was four to one and it was true that it was working well at that time. Today, however, the data are different and that ratio has not existed for years. Let us not hide behind words and see things straight and honest. As long as the contributions of the workers concerned are not saved, but are spent on the current pensions, the young people are becoming the major losers of a system that is stable and inextricably depreciated. Who doesn't see it anyway? In our country they are increasingly working to sustain more and less. And that's the big truth. We must therefore respond to this dual problem, read the data, study the data and provide sound and long-term solutions. That is exactly what today's bill is doing. With a sense of responsibility and full responsibility, with political determination and social sensitivity, looking after both the young people insured and the existing pensioners and offering guarantees wherever and whenever necessary, but also by establishing an increase in supplementary pensions, together with, of course, the development of our national economy. What, then, does the draft law on the new subsidiary introduce? For any new insured person who is liable for subsidiary insurance, but also for those who are up to thirty-five years old today and who optionally choose from 1-1-2022 in step and gradually convert the subsidiary insurance system from distribution to capitalisation. It is, in other words, the institution of the individual piggyback, so that everyone's contributions are theirs and that they are no longer brought to the common corps. And as savings in each individual account and money gradually increase an important chapter accumulates a step - step, which is investing, increasing and yielding, while strengthening our national economy in a mature, documented and secure way. This is what almost all the countries of the developed world are doing by introducing capitalising characteristics into their pension systems with measure and wisdom. That is what we are doing, maintaining both the public nature of subsidiary insurance and its compulsoryity. We are therefore following the example of the Nordic countries and avoiding the failed models of Latin America and the former Eastern bloc which have fully capitalised their own social security and led the system to crystallised inequalities and ultimately to a definitive collapse. At the same time, transparency, accountability, control and supervision are introduced. The new fund, established by the TECA, implements investment policies and governance practices that we are used to seeing only in the private economy, making use of the money and contributions of the insured for the benefit of themselves and not some others. An online and real-time monitoring of investments and portfolios is enacted. An online platform that looks like the internet banking is created and the insured is able to choose the investment profile that suits his preferences, thus giving better control over the final amount of the supplementary pension he receives. At the same time, two important guarantees are introduced for both pensioners and old insured persons and for young people. First of all, there is nothing to change about the existing members because those who are already part of the supplementary insurance system remain as they are without the slightest change, and only if they want and are up to thirty-five years old can change the new system. And that's something most likely many of our young people will choose. At the same time, current pensioners are not in any way affected, because it is clearly predicted that any cost of the transition, although fully manageable and low on the basis of studies, will always be covered by the state budget. A second guarantee, however, is introduced especially for young insured persons, which ensures that even in the extreme case that something is wrong and their individual pigeon is found with less money than they gave through their contributions, they will in any event receive at least as much supplementary pension as their contributions plus inflation. At the same time, it is predicted that if an insured person fails to complete 15 years of insurance and is therefore not entitled to a pension, his contributions are reimbursed, and so far they would be lost and fruited by others. Some may wonder. Is the contributions increased? Indicatively not, because the level of the contributions remains at 6.5% by the middle of 2022 and then goes to 6% where it stays from there and beyond. Is subsidiary insurance privatised? Incidentally not, because the new subsidiary is supported by the new fund, and this is public like e-ECA and other public funds. So we're setting up another public body? Not even in this case, because the new Capital Insurance Fund may be established as a State institution, but is almost fully managed by high-educational executives, with special internal regulations, with a high level of operation and, of course, with technocratic competence. In other words, the TECA operates in a context of strict governance rules, thereby ensuring a equally strict risk management framework to the benefit of its insured and its pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, how did the Opposition stand against all this? How did the Opposition assess the prospect of increasing pensions and strengthening and strengthening tomorrow's insured person? Unfortunately, once again, we have seen misery, opposition, fearfulness and catastrophe, despite the fact that three studies from well-known and authoritative bodies have certified the right direction of the bill and despite the open support received from teachers and former ministers. And what we have not heard, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few years. We heard that the Commission was supposed to object, that new taxes were supposed to come, that the figures did not come and that the social reactions were scaring us. But what social reactions are these and where do they come from? Are they from those who will see increases in their supplementary pensions, from those who now have more choices and supervision and accountability for where their money goes, or from those who do not like state guarantees and want to protest about it? We were also - it says - inconsistent, because it is not possible for the insurance system to be sustainable, as the then Minister Brutsis, in 2020, said, but also to need reform, as is the case with today's bill. Because, in other words, Mr Brutsis reformed the law on an abortion of Mr Katrugalos and changed the framework for the main pensions - and it is clear that he did very well - and gave a breath to thousands of self-employed people and businesses, all of a sudden today we are not allowed to want social security to be made fairer, more efficient and better in the area of subsidiary insurance. It's funny, of course, that they can't stand criticism. We have also heard the concerns about the cost of transition, that it is alleged that no one can predict or prejudge, that growth will be weak and that the cost of transition will be high. All right, but where's all this going? There was some research or some study and it wasn't called? Why does the studies carried out by three trustworthy and emblematic organisations say others that do not support their own concerns and fears? Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not arbitraryly legislate and according to what has been done. The government built the bill on real facts, in real studies, with facts which it also attached to the bill, so that there is no doubt about it. The conclusions not only confirmed the right direction of the draft law, but on the substance they formed the full background on which it is based. The cost of transition is at 56 billion and the benefit to the national economy of about 50 billion. So the cost to the State is about EUR 120 million per year. It was certified by the proportional study of the National Analogue Authority, with the prestige and gravity that distinguishes it, as we say from the outset. That is the reality because this is based on real elements. On the other hand, there is a study by IOBE, which, in eighteen different scenarios, concluded that due to the reform of subsidiary insurance, the country is leading to an increase in GDP and employment, with a positive impact on the country's fiscal and development figures, with full annual coverage of the transition costs since 2032 and then cumulative coverage since 2040. Within ten years, that is, the new subsidiary insurance framework introduced by the government can fully compensate for the annual cost of transition and then act as a lever for the benefit of both its insured and our national economy. While, of course, the third study accompanying the bill, the DPRK's debt bill, clearly substantiates that there is no question of any issue with the country's debt. Because in all the scenarios examined, from the most optimistic to the most pessimistic, the results of the analysis were undoubtedly positive. It is thus confirmed that the reform is really gradual, balanced and backward, avoiding sharp changes and major turbulence and ultimately leading to the reduction of public debt by approximately 6.3% of GDP in 2070. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is a way of dealing with budgets rather than with fragmentary expressions of "one law and one article" or with "dogs and barrens". Bonds and mutuals are not gamblers and sinners, as many MPs in the counter-population know very well. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in order to assess the reform of supplementary insurance sought by the government, we must respond manually to the heart. Is this reform in the interest of young people ultimately in the interests of young people? Is their prospects improved or worse? Is it or is it not mortal the current fully distributive system that we are implementing? And how can we ultimately guarantee future pensions better? I think that the answers to all of this are self-evident for all of us, even for those who prefer for ideological, opposition or other reasons to be against any new, pioneering and reformist, because in this bill for the first time over the last thirty years, a structural change in subsidiary insurance is being attempted. So justly, this reform takes historical proportions, touching the most creative, the most productive, the most developmental part of Greek society, the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u22	The rapporteur for SYRIZA will now be speaking, Mrs Maria - Elisa Xinoyannakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the capitalisation system in the supplementary insurance system that we are debating today is completely integrated - I would say that it is also a basic pillar - in the overall policy of the Government of New Democracy, a policy that is radically neoliberal - with outdated and failed recipes, a policy that systematically seeks - with a climax, of course, the famous 'Hajidakis' for labour - to make our country of cheap and flexible labour, deregulation of everything and gradual degradation of the social state in all its appearances. We have seen it in education with the characteristic, dramatic consequences of the thousands of excluded students from higher education institutions, who are, of course, extinguished to private education and colleges, we have seen it in the National Health System, although there has been a slowdown in privatization due to the pandemic. However, the target remains. And, of course, this policy is culminating in this bill, which comes to destroy the solidarity of generations and introduce private interests into the management of subsidiary insurance, of course opening the door - the ferry door to reality - in future and to main insurance. It is clear that this government, which had civil security policy front, proved to mean that it only means authoritarianism and repression. It is neither a guarantee of health, social welfare, work, wages and the very basis of social security. In addition, Mr. Ministers, the remodeling made yesterday by Mr. Mitsotakis, I think, in the clearest way, has come to confess the complete failure of the famous "final state", the complete failure and the dramatic consequences of the doctrine "law and order" as you mean and, of course, the complete failure to manage the multiplicity of the pandemic. The draft law we are debating today affects everyone, contrary to what the majority rapporteur said. It hits the current and future pensioners first of all, as it puts them into full uncertainty about the level of pensions they receive, destroys the solidarity of the generations. But it hurts young people too. And despite propaganda and communication policy, present it as a bill for the new generation. After all, Mr Minister, you have done the same with the working bill. You told us that by destroying the eighth and the trade union freedoms, you strengthened and strengthened the worker. Now, while you are hitting the new generation and condemning it to precariousness, you are gambling its contributions without, in fact, ensuring, you are coming and saying that it is in favour of the new generation. It also affects the Greek society as a whole, however, it affects the Greek people as a whole, all the taxpayers, as it creates a great transition cost, which will be forced to cover the state budget and therefore all the taxpayers. It is therefore a counter-reform whose dramatic consequences will begin to appear immediately. Because there is a lot to be said, let’s say some truths about this bill. Indeed, the first in relation to sustainability was questioned by the majority rapporteur, because we are so insisting on the studies submitted by Mr Brutsis. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, with the insurance reform of the SYRIZA government of 2016, as confirmed by the European Ageing Group of 2018, sustainability for our country's universal social security system had already been achieved by 2070. When Mr Brutsis brought these individual insurance changes, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, he then submitted two studies and, indeed, he said that he had solved the problem of the viability of the insurance system by at least 2070. And I will submit these two studies to the Minutes. The first concerns the viability of the main and subsidiary insurance system. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Mariliza Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the second study - why there is also a question of credibility and inconsistency on the part of the government - is a study of the adequacy of pensions signed by Mr Tsakloglu, the current State Secretary proposing with Mr Hatzidakis, the draft law, which Mr Brutsi then used as a teacher in terms of the adequacy of the insurance system. I am also presenting the second study by Mr Tsakloglou, which, in fact, gave particular weight to the concept of social cohesion and to the low pensioners. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Mariliza Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This, of course, is quite ironic - so I come to the second point - because it was precisely because there was concern on the part of the institutions - and you know that as much as you are trying to hide it - the government made a compromise for the first years of implementation of the new system, because after the cost it is huge and it will require a lot of cover from the state budget. And because, Mr President, you have wondered where the opposition bases the figures on the cost of it, please address the Ministers. Mr. Tsakloglu said it would be 56 billion the cost of transition and the study of the National Analogue Authority, which you mentioned and testified, says he can reach and exceed all 70 billion. So what is this compromise with the institutions? They put their hands on the'social dividend' they had adopted - and I am referring to the 2020 Brutsi Act. Mr Brutsis then abolished SYRIZA's thirteenth pension and then in order to counter the accusations, he took the view that 0.5% of GDP - that is, what we call the'social dividend' - would be a permanent social resource, which would be for the benefit of low-skilled and socially weak people every year. In fact, these around 900 million for the first few years, as the General Accounting Office says, by 2025, will not go to the low pensioners, but will come to cover the establishment, operation, the fees of the new fund and the first gaps, because the cost of the budget is escalating. So, ladies and gentlemen, this'reform' and the reverse redistribution of this draft law is a pure choice of the government - not even their institutions have asked for it and there was sustainability in the system - because it wants private interests to be introduced - and indeed multinationals - in terms of insurance contributions and resources in the insurance system. This violent redistribution begins directly at the expense of low-pensions. A corresponding burden will, of course, also be on public debt, as all the studies say that after 2040 we will have a debt burden of 49%. Mr. Hatzidakis was ironic when we discussed the committee, that SYRIZA is involved in public debt. I would therefore like to remind the Minister and, of course, the Members of the House that it was the SYRIZA Government who arranged the debt, took the country out of the memorials, and left the public funds, which was licensed, and over-excessive ECA, which is no longer at the moment. You told us, as far as the young people are concerned, and you mentioned and the ministers also said that young people have nothing to lose. First of all, the investment strategy puts in the draft law speaks clearly about investments in derivatives. We have also mentioned to the committee that the New Democracy quota has a reassured past with the structured bonds and we know how much problems had been created at the time and what consequences there were. Of course all of this also has a strong anti-constitutional dimension. But that is why we will then be discussing, and that is why we have put forward an objection of unconstitutionalism as a whole for this counter-reformation, but also for specific aspects of it. So here it is clear that the contributions of young people are being risked, they become the subject of a gamble, no matter how bothering you, Mr Ministers, this term. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we must insist that there is absolutely no guarantee beyond returning their contributions to inflation. This means a smaller supplementary pension than the current pension. The Government does not say that the definition will ultimately play a role and a number of other factors, such as life expectancy. And something, which is positive, of course, to increase life expectancy, you make it punishable. That is, in fact, if we have in the next thirty years, as we hope it will be, an eight-year increase in life expectancy. You don't tell them that, you hide it because you say in thirty years who will remember the debate in this House today, but the Minutes remain, Mr Ministers - the governments will either have to choose a 35% reduction in the supplementary pension for young people or an increase in the retirement years. It is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this counter-reformation affects the public distribution system, affects the solidarity of generations, affects the current pensioners, puts young people in uncertainty and in full precariousness, and certainly in a period of serious, multiple, crisis of economic, social, pandemic, you also come to create a huge budgetary issue, which is clearly your choice. Of course it is hypocritical to tell us why we protest where the state budget will come to meet pension requirements. Of course we do not complain because it will cover the state's pensions. That is a constitutional obligation. What we're telling you, and let's do what you don't understand, is that you create the gap so that the state is forced to cover that. You are telling us there is no question, because it will cover the growth dividend, and you are telling us good arguments and pious desires for a lasting development path in the country, which is not based anywhere. But even in this scenario, which is out of place and time, it is like saying that all the resources of development will fill the gap that you create and redistribute in favour of private interests. Or in the most likely unfavourable scenario, unfortunately in the difficult circumstances that we are experiencing, you will be forced into this counter-reformation eventually burdening the state budget with extra taxation. The last argument we have heard today is that this is international and European practice. You were telling us the same thing about work. But you are making a presentation of a card of international and European practice. What's the reality? When neoliberal globalisation began, in many countries, systems of capitalisation, partial or total, were implemented. Indeed, in the Eastern European countries, then, with the complete deregulation after 1989, which was imposed on them. But you're not telling all the truth he's still got two facets. Firstly, from the thirty countries that entered one way or another into capitalist systems, the eighteenth since the mid-2000s have returned to the distribution system, either wholly or in a system of capitalisation, as well as to Sweden. You hide that. Secondly, an alchemy is trying to present the professional funds, which are a different structure, because in most countries they are optional and are not part of compulsory insurance, such as the main and subsidiary pension in our country. The distribution system is maintained in most countries. You are deliberately confusing the information you give about the professional funds. Why did the countries abandon these failed recipes? Since there has been great uncertainty as to the amount of pensions in the end, there has been a great deal of cost in management and a great deal of budgetary cost in transition. In conclusion - and I am closing with this, Mr President - everyone is affected by this counter-reformation, the Greek people are affected, and the only ones who benefit from it are private and even multinational interests. You are well aware that under the European Union rules there is no guarantee as to where these investments will go. These investments will primarily go to international funds and to the various private operators in international exchanges, as part of the overall financial investment and speculation. So not even the argument that they will contribute to the development of the country is inconsistent. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is isolated and in this draft law, as it was with labour. It appeared in all our committee's discussions, where all the opposition parties voted against, it appeared to the majority of social and productive bodies - and we are talking about those who really represented retired workers, workers, scientists, and not certain professors who are advisors to the government - and above all it appears in society itself. It will be seen today at the rally organized by ADEDY and the Athens Labour Center and various federations against this bill, but it is mainly seen in the public opinion itself, the people it wants and requires a comprehensive policy change. For our part, we denounce this policy. We are voting against this bill. We consider it unconstitutional and we will return to the debate on this. We are proposing the need to support a strong distribution system of social security, which really guarantees solidarity between generations, social cohesion and justice and is a factor for effective, sustainable development and a fair society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u24	Mr. George Mulkiotis is called in Step by the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after yesterday's self-inflation of the bomb in the hands of the government with this remodeling fiasco, the government's real orientation has now revealed that it is a right-wing government with a swab. Therefore, following this embarrassment and nervousness, which also existed in the debate on the committees in this bill, we will now be dealing in plenary today, but on essential issues of this issue which the government is proposing. Mr President, today the citizen is suffering from the stress of pandemic, the stress of economic uncertainty, but also the stress of geopolitical instability. There is an entire generation between the twenty and thirty that has experienced the world through a prism unthinkable complexity. In this generation, therefore, in our young people, the government, and today, with the bill and the suggestion of supplementary insurance, adds an additional stress, the stress of the amount of their earnings to supplementary insurance when retired. For us it is clear that the government with the draft law under discussion firstly undermines the public insurance system, secondly broadens economic and social inequalities, thirdly does not cure the demographic threat to the insurance system, fourthly triggers social automation and age racism, clearly, and fifthly leads to a pension of 25% to 35% lower than that paid under the current regime. So let us see some of the government's arguments in favour of the draft law. The government claims that the introduction of capitalisation strengthens the solidarity of generations and restores the confidence of young people in the pension system. In fact, without being ashamed of the government, it triggers social automation and age-based racism. In an indirect way, but cynically, it is addressed to young people and it promises them that they will stop paying for old people, that is, for their parents. Instead of abolishing the distortions of the Katrugalo Law, which exist and apply, the government mocks young people with promises of much better supplementary pensions, which will allegedly arise through investments. We don't know what kind of magical combination he knows about the Ministry who wins to tell us. Subject: Government claims that almost all the advanced countries have developed capitalist insurance systems, that the Swedish model even has similarities to the system that is being promoted. We know, and we see it, that the relationship between the government and the truth will not be the best. Instead of bringing Chile as a similar example, where our fellow Member of the New Democracy, Mr Karagunis, said in 2018 that this system is in place, forgets Chile and replaces it today with Sweden. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you have to understand that what the government is going to do, if you see the law implemented in Chile and study it, you will see the similarities and differences. I typically submit to the minutes the information of the law - not the law - so that you can see him who is in relation to what was applied in Chile. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We know the Ministry's reasoning. What doctrine does it apply? "We have half the truths to cover the great lies." And the Ministry told us, not least at the first meeting of the committee, that we are perverting completely, as far as the other countries which have opted for the introduction of capitalising data into the insurance system are concerned, that the government's model for supplementary pensions follows systems which mainly apply to Scandinavian countries. We, Minister, had a clear position and a response to your plan. But explain how this piece of legislation follows the Swedish model, when in Sweden individual money-creating money-creating money-creating money-creating money-creating money is taking a comparatively small area of the public pension pillar, given that the contributions paid amount to just 2.5%? We told the committees that too. What were you doing in the supplementary pension? Not yet, at least in the main pension. In Sweden 2.5%, 6.5% in Greece as a 26% contribution, that is 25% of the Greek employee's contributions will go to capitalisation. In Sweden, 2.5%. To say a few things clearly: countries may have individual accounts capitalisation, but no developed country has attempted to transform a redistributive system into an individual account capitalisation system causing a transition cost. This is because neither political nor fiscal nor economic nor social, as the current government chooses, to burden citizens and the state budget tax and budgetary burdens. In other words, destabilisation, as in this case, and why? To finance the high transition costs that are created. The Netherlands, for example, has a compulsory capitalisation pillar, but through professional insurance, while the only countries which have a compulsory public capitalisation pillar of individual accounts are Sweden and Denmark. These countries, however, have created them on a zero basis by individual accounts. I repeat: from a zero base. In other words, they did not try to transform the redistributive social security system into a capitalisation system of individual accounts, but they created a zero-based capitalisation pillar in order not to incur the high cost of transition that is inevitably created after such an operation. The only countries which have attempted to move from a redistributive system to an individual account system were those countries in Latin America and the Baltic countries, with most of them returning to the public redistributive system, at the expense of the loans they received to cover their costs from the International Monetary Fund. Because they received a loan to finance the cost of the transition that was created. However, it is thus clear that the option to move from a distribution ancillary insurance to the capitalised subsidiary insurance of individual accounts, which the Government is attempting to carry out, is not what Sweden and Denmark have chosen. It is not that, as the government wrongly claims. On the contrary, it is what the Latin American and Baltic countries have chosen. Sweden and Denmark have even created room for insurance contributions to create the capitalisation pillars of individual accounts on a zero basis. In this case, there is no transfer cost - which is a major issue here - a transfer cost that is created in the event of a transformation of the distribution system into a single-account capitalisation system, as the government is doing, which operates with the distribution system of legitimate accounts. The Swedish system continues to say that it is a complex structure, with its own logic and with its own internal balances, and operates in a state that is a democracy of consensus, where, in order to pass a bill, 80% is required, a state that in every reform requires the agreement of the social partners, who are crucially involved in the operation of the social security system. Really, the Government, you Ministers, with whom did you seek a consensus? Don't talk about yesterday. With whom did you seek a consensus, apart from BSE and the Private Insurance Association, which was the election visit by Mr Mitsotakis and which promised them? No one else. The social partners do not participate in the TECA, which was set up. Why don't they join us? The Secretary-General told us in the committees that they do not have any technical knowledge, I said yesterday. So the GCC with the Institute of Labour could not propose one of the scientists, one of the teachers, who might be opposed by the government? But couldn't he suggest them? Does the government not trust these scientists with special knowledge? Couldn't he indicate? Clearly it could, but there are prophecies in sins. We have explained to you twice that the Greek system, scientifically if we look at it, belongs, as is true, to the corporatist model. However, this model does not belong to Sweden, but it also belongs to Germany and France. And, of course, these countries are applying the distribution system of defined benefits by making parametric changes in order to ensure the adjustment to ageing populations and, more and less, the occupational insurance funds. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, when the occupational insurance funds are constantly being developed throughout Europe, when the second pillar of the system, occupational insurance, operates in a capitalist system, the government chooses to create a new subsidiary fund that is competitive with occupational insurance funds. We have clearly asked the government why it does not give tax and other incentives, perhaps the second pillar, to the occupational insurance funds, such as us, the Change Movement, we have, of course, proposed, after social dialogue and with the participation and agreement of the social partners. We didn't get an answer. We are now asking, after the government is supposedly cut off on best European practices, why does it leave the second pillar underdeveloped and delayed, contrary to the rest of Europe which it claims and chooses to capitalise subsidiary insurance? The answer the State Secretary gave did not convince us. He told us not much or much that the occupational insurance funds - perhaps they will - do so later, because in Greece the Constitution prohibits compulsory occupational insurance. We didn't talk about occupational compulsory insurance. We didn't say compulsory. We are talking about substantial aid with tax incentives for voluntary occupational insurance, which PASOK - I would remind you - has already introduced since 2002. And this perspective was opened with the establishment of the first four professional funds in 2012 and was subsequently abandoned. Another matter. What does the Ministry's leadership say? It says that by recapitalising subsidiary insurance it is also facing the demographic problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that with Law 4670/2020 it has been clearly stated that confidence in the insurance system and its viability have been restored until 2070 with the most difficult demographic assumptions. Repeat, when was the government telling the truth, then or now? Or did he say, and now? Give a clear answer and not "so" or some halves. Clear answer. Why don't you tell the citizens that the capitalist systems are also being influenced by demographic developments such as the entire Greek and foreign literature in question? We believe that demographic consequences are addressed by the transition of the economy to a higher volume of employment. It's not without it. We can't play games with it. In full employment, we also support decent living wages. These are not unreasonable data which the government is ignoring. He's doing the opposite. It extends parttime work, the elasticization of industrial relations, institutionalizes individual contracts of employment and the 12 hours paid eight hours is dismantling the EIC. These are data situations. To say something, it is necessary for the government to understand that it needs to implement a national approach to demographic ageing, so that the population in Greece does not fall, according to EUROSTAT's forecast of 2.3 million people by the year 2070. This is required to be done which is not done. What did the Minister tell us? He is the Minister who combined his name with a hundred and thirty-three group redundancies of Kavala Fertilizers. How many years have there been collective redundancies? The Minister combined his name with these hundred and thirty three redundancies. So he told us that the government is going with the young. It's filthy to pretend he cares about young people. This is the government with the highest youth unemployment in the European Union, the elastic employment relationships, individual employment contracts, unpaid overtime. The government that excludes and ruled out thousands of children from entering higher education institutions hides a raw truth. What's the raw truth? That the capitalisation system does not provide any guarantee of the amount of pensions. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, what I have said to the committees. The insured knows what he's paying. That's for sure. But he doesn't even know what he'll get if he gets it. That is also certain and that is what the government is hiding. Unlike, of course, the current system in which a young man today knows from now on and no one doubts it with great certainty that the average monthly pension will be about 220 euros, since the Greek economy is unlikely to have an annual GDP growth rate of less than 1% over the next fifty consecutive years. Mr Hatzidakis told us in committee that it is obvious that this system could lead to higher supplementary pensions for young people from 43% to 68%. That's what Mr. Hatzidakis said. We are asking now why, if this system is so good, does it not apply to Germany or France or the United Kingdom, to some European countries? What do we say in relation to this? That the Government's arguments for higher growth and employment growth as well as an increase in pensions are based on a set of assumptions of the conventional economic thought of low realism. The supplementary pension will be dramatically reduced, because in addition to the risks of the markets, it will increase life expectancy by eight more years, as Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou said on average compared to today's generation. This means that future pensioners will receive a reduced pension by approximately 30% compared with the current level of supplementary pensions. Otherwise, in order to obtain the same level as the supplementary pension, they should be retired to the seventy-fourth year of their age. Data, and you've made it clear. No reply to that. We have also said that the old generation of pensioners are losing this so-called reform, they are losing this counter-reformation. The study of the National Analogue Authority clearly states that by not entering new entrants from 1-1-2022 and then the contribution base will be gradually reduced from year to year and thus the return of the contributions will gradually result in negative. So we ask the government again: has there been some concern that there is a provision in the draft law which provides that the parameters of the mental performance and the adjustment of pensions will be taken as the prices of the open system?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Mulkiotis, you're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u27	I'll take time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u28	No, you won't take time. You've already taken. A hundred and twenty colleagues have been registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u29	Can I have my second language, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u30	No, that's not how it works. In a minute, hang up. I'll give you another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u31	I shall conclude, Mr President. He asked the Minister for Gambling to the committees. We will say that in general, the system refers to investment risks and we have low investment, etc. investment risk. This so-called rating of investment risks will be said differently, more popularly? Don't bother the word gambling. It's a clear situation. It's gambling. Also, Mr President, in the 2008 crisis in relation to this whole system promoted by Ireland, it recorded a loss in the funds of private pensions 38%, Australia 27%, the United States 26% in the financial crisis. Now such issues play a part, do they have anything to do with anything, a failure, in this system that the government promotes? We conclude, Mr President, on our point of view on subsidiary insurance. We need a planned, proportionate and coherent rationalised social security policy that does not exist, such a policy that is converging with the developed countries of the European Union and the OECD that will be beneficial and effective for the Greek economy and society and also in the context of, among other things, the repayment of our public debt, as well as the effects of the pandemic on COVID -19. In this direction the following is being imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Mulkiotis, please don't embarrass me. Hang up, please, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u33	I conclude, Mr President. I'm saying what's imposed, and I'm ending up. It is essential to maintain the present nature of the main and supplementary pension, to strengthen the capitalisation pillar through the Occupational Insurance Fund and to develop and implement policies to strengthen the level of pensioning for future generations resulting from the increase in the income of workers, as we have said, through an increase in GDP, employment and productivity. This is our position and we are voting against the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u34	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Christos Katsotis, is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. The Government, by commitment, shall implement the choices of capital, the decisions of the European Union, which are its collective eminent. Following the law - an abortion for the abolition of the eighth, the introduction of the eighth with an eight-hour pay, the increase in overtime with a reduction in earnings, the electronic file of workers, the substantial abolition of the strike, continues with this bill and completes the crime started by giving supplementary insurance to business groups. Subsidiary insurance was a conquest of the movement to strengthen pensions. In recent years, he had already been fighting with previous insurance laws. All insurance laws, by the law of Sifa, Petralia, Reppa, Loverdou - Koutromani, Katrugalo - Brutsi and now Hatzidakis and Tsakloglou have as a common strategy the exemption of business groups and state from their participation in insurance, their conversion into an individual case and of course by further reducing the price of labour force. Everyone took advantage of the separation of young people and old people, divided and reigned, that is to say, to have the tolerance of part of the world as a whole. SYRIZA sets up the carpet in New Democracy today to bring this law - an abortion to privatise insurance. The principle is implemented by the subsidiary and will continue the system as they state it and by the so-called remuneration pension, as the pension as a whole has been separated from the Katrugalos Act. In addition to reducing the pensions, this law raised the age limits, brought to the body of public social security the so-called intellectual capitalisation in the subsidiary from 1-1-2015 with the creation of an individual piggyback that had only the employees' contributions in it. We therefore think that SYRIZA should condemn the new subsidiary today when it voted and implemented the law currently in force on supplementary pensions, introduced the idea of capitalisation, the zero-duty clause, the abolition of minimum pensions for all reasons of retirement, the separation of pensions into national and payroll with an essentially guarantee of EUR 384 and that for over six thousand days of insurance, that is, for twenty years. The supplementary pension for the new generation, but also for the current and tomorrow's pensioners, with this bill being taken into account. From 1-1-2022 all new entrants to the insurance and those who were born in 1987 will be in the new fund the TEKA, the Capital Insurance Fund. Since the first article of the draft law on the creation of the new fund, the EEKA, one realizes that it is an investment company that will gamble the employee's contributions into various stock exchange products. Workers - according to the bill - will not be insured, but investors. They'll gamble in stock exchange lotteries the contributions, the labors of their lives, they'll take the individual risk that they're reported to be low, medium or high. Their contributions will not be used to pay today's supplementary pensions, but will enter the insurance companies' money. Workers' sweating is a compost for financing investment. What does the bill come to do? Ensure a stable financial instrument guaranteeing the financing of investors by the employee's predetermined contributions. With this system, the capitalisation system, you'll know what you'll pay since it's predetermined contributions, but you don't know what you get as a pension, because it depends on the odds and if they exist, of gambling. There is no lie that the government has not tried to mislead the insured, old and young and to hide the dangerous consequences of privatising supplementary pensions through the application of the capitalisation system. It says the government: "with the individual money, young people run the test in their savings. They have confidence in the insurance system. We are dealing with black work.' Really, will individual buttons be in the hands of new insured persons or in the hands of private insurance companies? Who's going to run their contributions? The gamblers on the stock exchanges and the market experts will do, and even the uninjurious ones. The consequences are illustrated by international experience with the millions of workers who have remained on the ace, losing their contributions and their hard work. The government's talking about savings. Really, what savings can you create the wages of EUR 300 and 400 to which you have condemned the new generation? What contributions can part-time workers, young people who are forced at long periods of unemployment and who work after thirty years? Black work is all your work. You have legalized the employer's dislocation. It says the Government: "the reserves of individual portfolios that will be converted into investments will bring new, well paid jobs, something that will be of benefit to the new generation." This is a bad joke. The employee who will steal his contributions to finance the investments is the same that you obligate him to work for ten hours without an additional payment to these investments, which will have no collective agreements, to criminalise his collective action and claim on the basis of the law - an abortion of Hatzidakis. The fund reserves have always been in the hands of capital. With guidance and supervision of the urban state, they were looted. They became lenders and fierce towards capitalist businesses. They were converted into private properties. They became industries, boats, banks, hotels, shopping centers. The workers, however, did not gain anything. This is going to be even more unambiguous now with their gambling tradition. The whole process restores to the modern era what was done with the reserves of the insurance funds in Greece since the 1950s and then when the accumulated funds were given for the development of Greek capitalism, for the purchase of bonds and shares, resulting in their being occupied. You are now ensuring the unfeasible funding of business groups for the next forty, at least, years after the TECA starts from the beginning. No pensioners, no expenses. You say that the young workers who will join the capitalist system will receive higher pensions. In the media that the ministers of Hadjidakis and Chalcloglou pass through, they do not stop lying in relation to the bill. The stumbling takes place from the appropriate ministers. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have undertaken the special mission of privatising PPC. What were you talking about? Competition will reduce electricity tariffs, as you now say will increase the pensions of young people. The result is seen by any popular labor family who cannot pay the electricity and increases - fire. Now you're making lies again. As a dealer of insurance companies you sell seaweed for silk ribbons. You are presenting the future result of the capitalisation system by taking as the basis the positive return on investment while experience is quite the opposite. A lot of people go bankrupt. You also take three hundred times a year as a basis for stable, full-time workers, and for forty years a year, when you have legislated to abolish fixed work, to generalise flexible labour relations, to break pay. The capitalisation system already applies to the occupational funds and, in part, to the subsidiary, the EIF. The results are revealing. The subsidiary of the National Bank, LEPETE, “ASP PROMOTION”, the Pharmacopoeia Professional Fund are examples that reveal the serious consequences for insured persons who have lost their lives. Pharmaceutical staff saw 80% reductions in pensions and as 64% reductions in the single. It's the same system you're proposing here today. The application of capitalisation and individual accounts to the AS has led to supplementary old-age pensions of EUR 50-60 for 15 years with an average salary of EUR 1,000. Imagine at EUR 650 or at the least, the 400 that the vast majority of young people receive. Accordingly, the supplementary invalidity pension with the average salary of the insured person is EUR 9,71. It's a disgrace. The most skeptical can see what happened in the case of "SPPIS PROMOTION" where on one night they made millions of investments. It is no coincidence that the government is ensuring with the bill that the officials selected for the administration of the EEKA, the new fund and that the portfolios of the individual units of the thousands of insured persons are managed. Another government's claim is that the state will guarantee that pensioners will not get less of their contributions if it does not go well from gambling. If that is the case, why do you give the option to choose a low, medium and high risk to the insured person as long as he is not going to lose, as the government says? Is it a guarantee, however, that contributions will be refunded, that is, a charity of some tens of euro? That's what you're gonna do. Future pensioners, today's young workers, are at risk from low-skilled, long-term unemployment, labour market flexibility, the unpaid ten hours that the government has recently legislated. This risk will be paid even more expensive to their age, being within a private insurance system, without social guarantees, as were the lower pension thresholds. They will see all health and safety benefits falling continuously, but when they reach retirement age their money will be empty. For the vast majority of workers working with flexible working relationships, with low wages, who are by the thousands in unemployment and in the poorly paid OAED programs, the individual pigeon is undeclared. "The changes," the government says, "they do not concern the current pensioners, their pensions will not be affected". What does he want to do with that lie? Parents' tolerance to the destruction of their children. But no one's left outside. Discontinuation of the inputs to the system from 1-1-22 to the TECA will lead to the supplementary pensions of the current pensioners being found in the air. This, essentially, is the answer given by the study by the National Accounting Authority accompanying the draft law. The financial gap which, depending on the assumptions, is estimated at between 48 and 78 billion - the government says 56 billion - is what workers will be asked to pay for it themselves. This amount, even if we assume it will be covered by the state budget, who will be charged? It'll be a burden on the taxpayers. So again the bill will be loaded to the popular layers. This burden can be combined, of course, with a reduction in existing pensions, as well as new pensions for insured persons who remain in the current system. Is this not the usual practice of the governments of capital? Isn't that what we've seen for so many years with the reduction of pensions? So this will also be done in this case. "After the introduction of the capitalisation system, the consequences of the demographic problem in the insurance system are addressed," the government says. They call on the proportion of insured and retired persons to increase further the age limits, to further reduce pensions and benefits. The job's strayers are a cost to capital. Suffice the system to say 'do not die already?'. The increase in life expectancy with all overturns and in particular the capitalisation system leads with mathematical accuracy to smaller pensions, even less protection for old age. In fact, this notorious risk is individually transferred to each insured person without the State taking any responsibility. Living more instead of blessing turns into a curse, since in this new system it leads to a lesser pension. The demographic problem is deliberately growing and exploited by the European Union and the bourgeois governments, which in their policy increase insecurity and unemployment, smuggled wages and labour relations - elastic. They turn motherhood, family and care into an individual case. What would be the relationship between the millions of young people and the migrants, though all those who work for a few hours or are uninsured? You do not touch this because unemployment, flexible working relationships, is inherent in the system of exploitation and capitalism. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] We call on the workers to be disembodied by the parties of capital, to strengthen their struggle, to condemn anti-popular policy massively. Responsibly with the mass participation of today's rally in the Constitution on the eighth night, organized by the Attica trade unions, demanding that the bill privatising subsidiary insurance be withdrawn. We are asking for social security for all, exclusively public and compulsory, health and welfare exclusively public and free, and for the abolition of all reinsurance laws by the Governments of New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, KINAL, reinstate the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, increases in pensions and social benefits to restore all cuts that have taken place in the last decade. As a JRC, we are fighting for public, universal, compulsory, social security and the construction of a single system including pension rights, health prevention and rehabilitation services, social welfare benefits and services. We trust in the power of class struggle. We support the labour movement, the trade unions fighting for the abolition of all reinsurance laws. The only way is for workers to turn their backs on the capital parties that, with their policy, scanning the lives of the working people's families, who have practically supported private insurance and professional funds. This is what New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA, their trade union forces, the leadership of the GCC which agreed with BSE to set up a national professional fund to fight, of course, their workers against them and public security. As a JRC, we request the withdrawal of the bill. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will also apply for a roll-call vote. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. We are now continuing with our colleague from the Greek Solution, Mrs Maria Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. The current draft law comes to approximate the basic nature of the public social security system. It comes to affect the solidarity of generations as a basic principle governing the operation of our insurance system and comes to affect all insured persons. It hits current and future pensioners, as it creates an uncertainty about the level of pensions in the future. It hurts young workers, namely those who are supposed to - says the government is coming to favour. The reality is, however, coming to disprove them with this bill, in order to use their contributions as a gambler and a risk to international stock exchanges. He claims to introduce the capitalisation system to ensure the highest supplementary pensions for the new generation. The government is pretending to care for young people. This is dreadfully hypocritical when youth unemployment in Greece is one of the highest in Europe. The Government with its flexible employment relationships and unpaid overtime hides the strong truth that the capitalisation system does not provide any guarantee of the amount of pensions. The insured knows what he's gonna pay. But she doesn't know what she'll get and whether she gets it. The demographic risk threatening the incomes of future pensioners will not be reduced because today's workers and future pensioners receive low wages and at the same time are at risk from long periods of unemployment and from the unpaid ten hours, which your Government, the New Democracy, recently legislated. Who will take responsibility for revealing the truth to us about the unprecedented sum of EUR 75 billion, EUR 78 billion, a loss that the public will suffer, which relates to the transition from one system to another? How will it be covered? Can we imagine from the state budget? In what way? The end of subsidiary insurance, as we have known to date, means the end of social security with the guarantee of the public in general, which remains to be seen over time. It's an uncertain system with great chance of collapse. We have seen other similar scenes, since investments will be inextricably linked to market fluctuations at global level. Russian roulette for insured persons, with the investors of the reserves not only receiving gold jobs, but also exempt from any civil or criminal liability for acts or omissions thereof in the course of the performance of their duties. The same mistaken practices following the labour and insurance systems, practices which, as before and now, do not guarantee any sustainability and no social justice. The insurance funds have always placed their capital into place and have included the estimated profits in their proportionate studies. These positions were mainly in bonds of the Greek State or in bonds of strong countries such as Germany, but after the PSI it proved that even the Greek State’s choice of bonds cannot be secure. We are living at a stage in the development of the European Union, where the single banking system does not actually guarantee bank deposits. In Cyprus, the insurance funds had huge damage to the deposit haircut. In a country with a debt of over 200% of GDP, adding another 2.5 billion a year to budget expenditure, that is, over a unit of GDP, is a big problem, gentlemen. And we're talking about spending 30 years in depth. Will new Golden Boys be created or will they be more enriched? That's what's left of it. Private insurance companies that already have structured structures to offer subsidiary insurance services will certainly benefit. The existing supplementary insurance system is based on solidarity and collective response to the risks of old age, disability and widowhood, while its performance is based on the real economy and productivity of labour. On the other hand, the capitalisation system of individual accounts, i.e. individual money, is based on the individual treatment of the risks of old age, widowhood and disability and its performance assumes the risk of capital markets and financial markets. It is clearly a neoliberal policy that abolishes solidarity between generations, but also collectively addressing the risk of old age, widowhood and disability, since every generation does not save collectively, but individually. In essence, the Government adopts the individual accounts’s capitalisation system, that is, what modern literature refers to as a money-marketing system for public social security. A part of social security is cut off from its contribution to the productive process of the economy and is delivered to the operation of the capital markets and financial markets. Capitalising systems operate on the basis of investment risk. You're saying if the investment doesn't go well, the insured will get his capital back. So you admit that there is an investment risk. If that's not a gambling thing, what's it called? This is also demonstrated by Article 19 in which even the rapporteurs of the new fund do not believe in their economic benefit. That is why they obviously file in this article the irresponsible members of the board of directors for acts or omissions unless there is serious negligence or fraud. In other words, in advance they are exempted from any responsibility by those who invest the workers' money in the markets and give them loans. The new system, as its annual contributions are continuously reduced, if the benefits of the scheme are to be protected, has the effect of creating a cash deficit and there is a lack of funding for the members of the insured. In the capitalisation systems, the contributions of the insured are financed by their future benefits. This is why the contributions paid by insured persons during their working life are kept on individual accounts and in conjunction with the annual returns are the capital which, during retirement, forms the basis for calculating the final pension. Additional pensions will be dramatically reduced by the legislation in force. In addition to the risks of the market, life expectancy will be increased by an average of eight years, with regard to today's generation as well. This means that, on this basis, future pensioners will receive a pension of about 35%, compared with the current level of supplementary pensions. In this case, the first introductory articles of the legislation being passed appear to be the sloppiness, vagueness and fragmentation of the subsequent regulations, but also the slightness with which the government is dealing with such a burning and sensitive issue as the supplementary pensions, which touches millions of insured persons and plays their jobs. The word 'plays' is worded in mind, since it is clearly gaming in this case. In other words, the Government makes the contributions to gambling, that is to say, the work of the insured, on the one hand, by not guaranteeing the insured, on the other hand, guarantees that retired crumbs, in the event that the project falls outside, which is most likely specified. From this it appears that the Government expects subsidiary insurance contributions to provide a financing fund for any future financial aberrations, even transferring the responsibilities of selecting investment programmes to ignorant workers and thereby dismantling its own institutional responsibilities. First of all, what is the need for another ancillary insurance body to be set up in addition to the existing ones? We note with reference to Article 1 that in our home country there is a need for other ancillary insurance bodies. Work is needed, as is the rational administration of the already existing bodies, as well as the good use of their resources. Unfortunately, what has already been demonstrated in fact, i.e. the loss of insurance contributions to the detriment of insured persons and the extradition of their supplementary pensions to excessive risks and the substantial misappropriation is due to an unsatisfactory use of resources. Therefore, the problem of the so far loss of insurance contributions is not due to those bodies themselves as they would not be natural, but to their managers and to their so far management. What, then, is the point of setting up the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, which will operate independently and detached from the e-ECA from the moment that the entities operating years and, indeed, very effectively before the disastrous Memorandum Policy already exist? On the basis of the fact that Articles 2 and 3 have primarily vague provisions, no particular reference shall be made to whom they are addressed and to whom the draft law in question relates. What is the number of workers involved, whether death pensions and other classes of pensions, such as invalidity pensions, are different, whether they are reduced and to what extent the pensions already awarded are either future pensions, and whether the government intends to make up for any impairment in a way that ensures a decent living for pensioners. There is therefore no indication of the object of the investments in the contributions or of the age of the insured persons contributing to the investments. With regard to Article 5 ‘purpose’, the right of insured persons to choose whether or not they wish to be insured on a voluntary basis is being infringed. This circumvention affects the free will of insured persons and, unfortunately, leads future pensioners to one-way streets. Article 6 is also in the same spirit. Combat the free will of young people insured by limiting them to a specific body with specific programmes. They lose the option of optional insurance on e-ECA. Equally unsolved is the fate of the contributions paid in favour of subsidiary insurance that has been deposited with the e-ECA. How exactly will you ensure that they are exploited and that they are not lost in the process of transferring them from one fund to another? Moving on to point out that in Article 12, for the selection process and the appointment of members of the board of directors, there is no reference to the representation of insured and retired persons in the administration of the institution. Are you asking yourself, will the scientific associations - which will be the backbone of the new members of the fund - have any reason to place members? Will they have a say in proposals, ideas, problems solutions or the special council which chooses members, by way of derogation, any other provision under the terms of specialization by the Minister of Labour will serve, regardless of the subject matter, persons - yet - friends of attendees? In Article 19 of the draft law on the liability of members of the Board of Directors, Immunities shall be granted to members of the Board of Directors against individuals for acts or omissions linked to the performance of their duties. What exactly assurance is given to those insured who will choose to join the new fund by acts or omissions of the members of the management of the fund? There's no mention at all of serious negligence or deceit. Therefore, individual and professional associations, individuals in general, will not be able to claim liability for any reason, even in cases of fraud or serious negligence. Any principle of legality, transparency and democracy is violated, the value of good administration is undone. It is empirically unacceptable that the managers of the most important good of the workers, the funds from their misappropriation, even when the workers do not have a choice and are subject to the management regime, do not have a responsibility, such as all those who manage public funds. For anyone who knows that it has the impunity is prone to managing the funds with transparency, without control and with effective accountability. The provision creates reasonable concerns even for incentives to introduce legislation in question. Moving to Article 26, the CEO of the EAEC may recruit and place persons in the appropriate position. No recruitment shall be provided through the transparent procedures of the AACC or competition, even for the posted partners of the CEO. In Article 27, the positions of the partners shall be filled by way of derogation from any other provision. In other words, first by an act of recruitment signed by the CEO. Secondly, in the case of secondment by a joint decision of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and the competent minister of the institution of origin, following a recommendation from the CEO. This regulation does not only combat the customer state but promotes the creation of positions with superpowers to friends, but without any consequence to any of their responsibilities. Article 38. The contracts provided for in this Article for the supply of goods, services, etc. will be regulated by a procurement regulation issued by the Board. TECHA. Our thinking therefore leads to opaque procedures and unambiguous criteria for selecting co-operating suppliers, which can easily go ahead with sharing money to individual individuals, say. Article 48. You can't force someone to choose something they don't know. The insured persons, by paying the insurance contributions, wish to receive a supplementary pension corresponding to the contributions paid. The new scheme obliges young insured persons to invest their money in a programme that they do not choose themselves, but is proposed by the EAEC without the right or the possibility of further choices. How do you expect him to trust you - under these conditions - the insured person? Article 51. An internal credit institution or a credit institution of a Member State of the European Union shall be designated by this Article as the depositary of the EBA. Therefore, foreign banks can be held responsible for the money of Greek insured persons, which we consider to be unacceptable. In Article 59, we point out that there should be further security disputes through the state budget in order to replace the resources of the e-ECA that will be lost. In no case should there be a deficit in the available resources of e-VENA that could harm existing pensions. It should be ensured that the financial gap and the State guarantee that the current pensioners do not have any further reductions due to the creation of the EAEC. Article 60. State guarantee. The State guarantees as a monthly supplementary pension only the amount accumulated from the insurance contributions paid at actual prices. In this case it will pay at best equal if not lower pensions than the existing scheme. The burden of losing will be borne by the political uncertainties involved. Article 61. Information. It refers to the information obligation to be provided by the fund to any interested party, there is no corresponding obligation to inform the social partners. We believe that the information of the social actors is absolutely essential, especially since they are not represented in the composition of the board of directors of the new fund. Article 68. This article gives too much legislative powers by providing services to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Fund's board of directors. As far as the situation of the Greek economy is concerned, as our Parliamentary representative, Mr Viliardos, said in his study, the failure of the state of administration is demonstrated by the official figures relating to the Greek economy, an economic chaos which bears the full seal of the Mitsotakis Government. The central government debt at the end of June was launched at EUR 387,3 billion or at 233,5% of GDP in 2020 and is expected to exceed EUR 400 billion. Greeks owe 110 billion euros to the state plus some 90 billion euros of interest and surcharges, as well as 40 billion euros to insurance agencies. They also owe the astronomical sum of 110 billion in red loans. In all of this, the government introduces this draft law which looks forward to the future additional enrichment of the licensed funds with employee contributions. The frustrations, voids and vagueness of the provisions, the irresponsibility of the members of the Board of Directors under the founding TECA, and the avoidance of substantial guarantees on the part of the public there lead our thoughts. You must, gentlemen, ensure the credibility of the state towards the citizen and not behave as common gamblers, which is about risking the bloody economies of the Greek people. In the Greek Solution, there can only be room for this bill to be voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u38	Thank you for the time. We're continuing with Mrs. Maria Apajidis from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to refer to the reform. We have seen a reshape that dissolves both the last pretext and reveals the government's extreme right-wing character. The government from a hypocritical build-up of the extreme centre with the extreme right, now turns completely to the extreme right following Hungary, Orban and the other eastern right-wing governments. This is also a remodelling of patriarchal without the necessary number of women, a remodelling where the highest health issue is dealt with in terms of legal and suppression or even conciliation with the extreme right. This is also a remodelling in which, instead of the essence of politics, communication in terms of soccer conversions has been prevalent. We regret this glimpse of politics. With regard to the draft law, as a PART25, we are opposed to a draft law establishing a new supplementary pension scheme in order to introduce finalisation and the uncertainty of gambling in workers' pensions. Acquisition of private companies that will benefit from this tough gambling. Unfinished uncertainty and precariousness for pensioners. The new supplementary pension scheme provides for the introduction of all new entrants to the labour market as from 1 January 2022. However, other categories of insured persons, such as those already insured in the supplementary insurance sector of e-ECA, born from 1-1-87, are included in insurance of the Capital Insurance Fund. The first article of the draft law introduces the capitalisation system of predetermined contributions to subsidiary insurance is supposed to ensure a satisfactory level of living, for the sustainability of social security, for the development of the economy. Behind these nice euphemisms a grim reality is, unfortunately. Economic growth means a model where the money of supplementary pensions is gambled into gambling, so we may have growth for private companies like insurance, but this is achieved by the sacrifice of the insured. Under this very vulnerable word "sustainableity" the abolition of transgenic solidarity is hidden. This is a sustainability of the system and it is extremely questionable at the expense of the viability of the workers and the insured. The main problem of the bill is, of course, that the contributions and general resources of the EAEC will be placed in financial instruments and property. The result is that only the private companies that will manage contributions are the definitely won of the new private supplementary pension, while the cost of transition from the current system to the new system is high. In this capitalisation system pensions are converted into investment products and are based on where? At the risk and lotteries of the Stock Exchange. It seems that the Mitsotakis Government has envyed the glory of the three-pillar system of Pinochet and is now praising the capitalist system and the reward that forms the basis for the operation of private insurance. In relation to the State guarantee now, it stipulates that at the time the social security risks covered the State ensures that a minimum monthly supplementary pension is paid. A minimum remuneration monthly supplementary pension shall mean the amount of the monthly supplementary pension calculated on the basis of the actual value of the total contributions paid. However, these contributions are accounted for in the individual accounts of the insured persons at the time the socio-security risks are incurred. As to the cost of transition now, it is important to remember that this bill had been attempted to introduce earlier to vote, but the government had had to retreat because of the objections made by the European Union about the large financial gap it created. Since the state will guarantee the amount of citizens' pensions, how will this whole gap be covered? Initially, the introduction of the new tax was chosen. Finally, the European Union's objections have been raised at the moment. It seems that the political thinking of the European Union does not want and cannot open up many fronts at this stage of the pandemic, so that it can counter the budgetary initiatives taken by the governments of the Member States. However, the problem of covering the financial gap remains. This is a gap that can even reach the 78 billion euros. Ultimately, this huge budgetary expenditure caused by the transition to the new supplementary pension system is to be covered by budgetary funds, because the compromise reached with creditors disbursed the costs throughout taxation. In addition, it is worth noting that the Commission's sources had stressed, among other things, that this bill was not part of the reforms that the Government is required to implement in the framework of the surveillance programme. This is because the European Union has no responsibility for the pension systems of the Member States. Only if a reform has a financial impact, then it can intervene by issuing a warning. What does that mean? It is a proof that the zeal of the Mitsotakis Government is related to the service of its own oligarchs in the field of private insurance and has nothing to do with the European Union's antiques, but it also has budgetary costs that we will pay for. The Government of New Democracy does not only apply as an exemplary prisoner the measures of creditors who are destroying the country, as all the Memorandum governments do, but it is also rushing to add more, with unreasonable financial expenditure, in order to take advantage of the interests of its private friends. The government is constantly confirming its role as a government-builder. In insurance is a government - laundry for private insurance companies to which it pushes workers. On the ecological issue is false for so-called contractors, forest godfathers, in which the forests of our country are assigned to companies, possibly even "BAYER MONSANTO" that will plant their certified trees, destroying for ever the natural viability of forests. The school's a private college douche. It takes forty thousand students the right to study in order to go to pay private colleges and government school friends. The refugee is at the same time riding the emotions about the fate of the people of Afghanistan and especially of women, as well as the fear of refugees setting up walls and defences that provide human quality. Of course, we are not downgrading the responsibilities of all the Memorandum governments. This bill is a follow-up to anti-territorial Memorandum laws, as the conversion of social security into an individual case is based on laws of previous Memorandum governments. In particular, the relevant law of the SYRIZA Government laid the foundations of the formation of a new landscape in insurance, where State and employers' participation is drastically limited by creating a profitable field that is brilliant for private insurance companies. This law was not only maintained by the recent legislation of the New Democracy, but was further strengthened by new provisions in the same direction and by covering any legal gaps. Although the logic of this bill was initiated by the SYRIZA Memorandum, we now have a decisive deterioration. This draft is the basis for privatising subsidiary insurance and introducing the stock exchange gambling for supplementary pensions. In other words, the creation of the individual pigeon is a backbone for the collective social character of supplementary pension because it is now becoming an individual case, signalling the end of human protection when it ages. The pension ceases to be of a protection nature and is converted into an investment and the persons insured to investors. And if the investment doesn't go well, investors will be called unfortunate gamblers and they won't have a fate in the sun. Only insecurity may cause what is referred to in Article 47 for the investment strategy. The assets of the CECF will be invested - it says - in view of the best interests of the insured, the safety, quality, liquidity, the profitability of the portfolio as a whole on the basis of prudent management and development of the economy. These are generics that do not inspire any confidence. How will it guarantee what is described in Article 47, that excessive dependence on a particular item, issuer or group of undertakings, and in general excessive risk accumulation, will be avoided? How will it ensure that the assets are invested in regulated markets and that the part to be invested in non-traded items on regulated markets remains at prudent levels? These are vague wishes, and a great risk is clear: Investments in derivative financial instruments. And it is highly ironic that the reference to Article 47 that these derivatives of financial instruments could allegedly contribute to reducing investment risks or also facilitate effective investment management, when we all know what derivatives of financial instruments mean and what their contribution to the crisis we have not come out of. The Fund's benefits reserve will be invested in low-risk products, but what these low-risk products will be identified by a decision of the Management Board, with the opinion of the Investment Committee and the Risk Management Unit. This does not in any way ensure that the labour force is not lost. And, of course, the Ministry of Labour may throw ashes into the eyes with a variety of assurances, but what will ultimately be the case is: firstly, that the young people insured will not have control over their pensions by means of the individual pigeon, very simply because no one guarantees them that at the end of their working life they will receive the additional pension corresponding to the contributions they have paid. On the contrary, the risk of losing part or all of the amount is high, since the investment is based on market gambling. Secondly, future pensioners will not guarantee higher supplementary pensions quite simply because we are talking about a country where, on the one hand, the main pension is not even guaranteed and, on the other, the supplementary pensions will be gambled. Thirdly, the demographic risk, which is the incomes of future pensioners, will not be reduced, quite simply because the current workers and future pensioners receive low wages and wages, are at risk from long periods of unemployment, from the flexibility on the labour market, from the unpaid ten hours that the government and Mr Hatzidakis have recently legislated and certainly contribute to our reasonable mistrust of the fact that the bill was tabled at night, shortly before the summer holidays and that his debate and vote were interrupted by the closure of the House. These cowardly tactics to avoid the popular reaction that they will not get away with in the end are a confession of guilt about the anti-grains character of the bill. So let us not have any illusions, and above all we, as a PART25, strongly urge that we not introduce this stock exchange gambling into supplementary pensions by playing with the labour force. That is why we are voting against the bill and calling for its withdrawal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, you are raising objections to constitutionality and you are asking the House to give its opinion. We shall therefore apply paragraph 2 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. They have the right to speak by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, Mr Buga, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or the Parliamentary Representatives and the Ministers responsible for each for five minutes. Please, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor. And I make a warm request to everyone, we have a hundred and twenty speakers, to keep at least the time to discuss unconstitutionalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance have put forward an objection of unconstitutionalism for the whole of the draft law introducing the capitalisation system to subsidiary insurance, that is to say from Article 1 to 73, because we consider that it is contrary to these provisions by Article 22(5) of the Constitution which states that 'the State is responsible for the social security of workers, as the law states'. The constitutional safeguarding of the right to social security is linked to the explicit introduction of the principle of a social State in Article 25(1) of the Constitution which undertakes to meet the fundamental social needs. The right of every worker to social security includes a claim by the State to abstain from any aggressive action which offends the guaranteed constitutional concept of social security in relation to these basic principles. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, with this bill you come to harm the core of social security, which just states that it cannot be compulsory, that is, main and subsidiary insurance, to be put under risk and uncertainty. You, precisely because you know this constitutional problem, are trying to overcome it is assumed through the establishment of this special fund, the Social Security Fund, the TEC, because you know very well that there is a deep unconstitutionality in this draft law. And so you set up a fund that, in fact, even the report of the General Accounting Office of the State states that it is not even certain whether it will be an entity that is part of the general government. This way you think you can overcome the serious problems of unconstitutionalism that are being posed. I'll be brief, because I don't have more than five minutes, so the objection we've raised is very detailed. There are a number of decisions by the Council of State which make an authentic interpretation of Article 22(5) of the Constitution, which demonstrates the unconstitutionality of your provisions. I will mention features, because there are many decisions, number 2287 of 2015 and on 1889 of 2019, decisions of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. To codify them clearly, these decisions say four things: Firstly, that the public social security system, according to the Constitution, is public and compulsory. Secondly, it is only provided by the State or by a legal person governed by public law. Here is the "institutional trip" you are attempting with the establishment of the TECA. Thirdly, it is foreign to business risks associated with the exercise of the insurance function by private operators. Here, above all, it concerns the contributions of young people who have to incorporate them into this capitalisation system, you put them at the risk of speculation risk and of course in the management of private entities. And fourthly, it has a final and sole guarantor of the state, which is obliged to participate in its financing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me in the two minutes that I have to read from these decisions, which I think are clear. Decision 2287 of the Council of State clearly states: ‘State care for compulsory social security, main and subsidiary, is not exhausted in the establishment by the State of the relevant public bodies, in the definition of their governing bodies, in the supervision of their activities and in the management of their property, and in the adoption of the relevant rules, but also includes the care to protect their insurance capital, namely for their viability thanks to and subsequent generations, which is manifested, inter alia, by establishing arrangements for the protection and exploitation of their property...’ - their property, not of the compulsory contributions, as you entered - ‘... in specific terms in the public interest’. And it continues with a number of other relevant analyses and the other decision of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u42	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u43	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Constitution says that the state must protect public and social security. The ordinary legislator cannot overcome the provisions of the Constitution. It must be in the public interest to ensure the capital and reserves of the funds and in no case can it impose in this indirect way, which you are attempting to overcome the Constitution, speculation and exploitation in a compulsory manner of contributions from private operators and private operators. That is why we are voting against the objection of unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, we have a hundred and twenty speakers. I would therefore ask that we show respect for other speakers. Mr. Bougas has the floor. Please also speak within five minutes. You have the floor, Mr Buga.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak directly about the objection of unconstitutionality. So this objection is manifestly unfounded. The arguments that make up the historical basis of the objection are not supported by constitutional law scientists. They have been judged and rejected by the case-law of the Council of State and have been challenged by a recent ad hoc opinion of the Court of Auditors. Social security is compulsory under our Constitution and is public, i.e. provided by the State or legal entities governed by public law. The consolidated, ladies and gentlemen, case-law of the Supreme Courts since 1975 has clarified precisely the obligation of the joint legislature not to harm the hard core of the right, namely the sustainability of the whole system, but also to ensure decent living. What is the result of studying the provisions of the draft law we are discussing today? The introduction of the social security grid requires a social security institution as a State entity, i.e. a legal person governed by public law, even under strict state supervision by the National Accounting Authority, the Capital Market Commission and the Ministry of Labour. The great advantage, however, of the draft law under discussion is to provide for the use of the capitalisation system. Under the current circumstances the introduction of the capitalisation system in supplementary pensions will make a significant contribution to the so-called trans-national justice and trust of pensioners. Only thus will the intrinsic injustice resulting from the inevitable ageing of the population be removed. The younger groups of insured persons will certainly be smaller than the previous ones. As the supplementary pension is based on equality of contributions and benefits, each new pensioner group will henceforth take less than the previous group and certainly less than the contributions paid. This opposition seems to be legally accepted. We do not accept it. The draft law ensures that the actual total amount of the insured person’s pension will not be less than its total contributions, but in principle it will be considerably higher. From this provision of the draft law, the main argument of opposition to unconstitutionalism is to be overcome. All the European countries that currently face similar problems, and to a lesser extent compared to Greece, provide for the combination of the distribution and capitalisation system in order to make use of the combination of the advantages of one model and the other. The editorial legislator laid down the State’s sovereign obligations and granted the joint legislature the choice of the instruments by drawing up specific proportionate and economic studies, so that the public purpose, i.e. the overall sustainability of the system and a decent living, is actually achieved each time. It is therefore possible to apply a purely distribution system, a purely capitalist or, as is the case in many states, a mixed system. Further, of course, there is no pilot run. A capitalisation system has already been in force since 2013 in compulsory subsidiary social security. As you know, four compulsory occupational insurance funds have been set up and operate as you know. The Council of State, in order to come to SYRIZA's arguments, confirmed the agreement with the Constitution both with the Decision 960 of 2017 and with the recent Decision 2482 of 2020, which seems to validate overall the political choice of the capitalisation of subsidiary insurance. I have to say in respect of the decision invoked by SYRIZA that Decision 1889 of 2019 of the Plenary Assembly is not differentiated, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the criteria are concerned, but as regards the wording. That is why the subsequent 2020 decision, which I mentioned before, also in view of the 2019 plenary decision, confirms - I repeat - the overall policy of the capitalisation of subsidiary insurance. For the Minutes, I present all the decisions of the Council of State which accept all the constitutionality of the relevant arrangements. I do not mention them, Mr President, for the sake of brevity. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Bougas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To conclude, Mr President, I must say that so far experience of the operation of the four funds mentioned above has been very positive and takes into account the demographic, economic and other indicators for the adequacy of the system's viability. Furthermore, in order to fulfil the conditions set out in the case-law of the Council of State, I refer to the provisions of Articles 59 and 60 of the draft law with the double state guarantee for old and new insured persons. I have no time to refer to the ad hoc opinion of the Court of Auditors. In saying a few words about it, however, I must tell you that, in view of the findings of the case-law, the Court of Auditors accepts that the proposed system is fully in line with the Constitution if the conditions met in the draft law are met. For these reasons, I urge everyone to vote against the objection of unconstitutionality with the provisions of the bill and to support unanimously the important reform that we at last dare for the benefit of the social group, not only for today, but also for tomorrow in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, the objection to this debate puts at the heart of the debate not only a few factually problematic articles of the draft law, for which we too have expressed our strong disagreement, but also the very essence of capitalist insurance. We have, for our part, raised strong objections and disagreements at the outset, but also on the articles of the bill, and we have also analysed the committee's meetings, and of course we will also do so in the two-day plenary procedure. Our opposition to the draft law is deeply political and ideological, but also tangible, with substantiated arguments which we have analysed, analysed and will analyse. We have already analysed the shortcomings and failures in the architecture of this system, its funding, the incentives for the insured and its exploitation, especially given developments in Europe and the failure of such projects due to reduced yields. It turns out that the error of government intervention in the socio-security system is clear. We have said and insisted repeatedly, and we are saying this today as a parliamentary group that we shall be invoking the Constitution with enthusiasm and responsibility and that we shall continue to do so. For it is another question of political criticism and confrontation, and another of the constitutional arguments which must of course always be solid and firm. In any case, we will trust the judgement of the Greek courts in the diffuse control of the legality which is carried out in accordance with the spirit of the discrimination of powers. We are going to dismantle this bill with specific political arguments during the debate. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u48	Mr Pafilis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I will repeat for a millennium what happens to unconstitutionalism. It's become an irony. Anyone who has a hundred and fifty - one parliamentarians judges constitutionality and dogs tied up. So many times it only makes sense political. Two for the Constitution. What does Article 22 say? He says: 'The State ensures social security for workers'. Very good. What's next? He says: “... as a law defines.” In other words, like every government every time, it considers this social right. Here's the mock. Why is it a mock? Let me say that we claim to be unconstitutional. When the debate on SYRIZA started on the revision of the Constitution in Article 22, SYRIZA proposed: "Social security as a social right, a single universal coverage system within a public redistributive system, based on the principles of solidarity and recompense". What did we say? Mr Giokas said: "The JRC cannot agree. In the SYRIZA proposal - and we support it now - 'the term of recompense is introduced, which was the siege ram for all the insurance laws and for the dismantling of any social security character. The JRC supports the guaranteeing of the public exclusive nature of social security.’ Why didn't you vote for it? Neither SYRIZA agreed neither the New Democracy nor the Change Movement. Isn't that what we got? We are therefore not fooled by the fact that we have been supporting the public nature of social security since you saw him all these years. That's what we'll talk about later, of course. The second hypocrisy. You say it guarantees the state. What does it really guarantee? Are you kidding us? Since 1990, all governments have been cutting off all pensions, and all the insurance funds have been slashed down. These billions - the too much, not to say since the 1950s - whose was it? Wasn't the trouble and sweat of workers, part of the state and part of the employers? Which is part of the value that the workers produce. Did you end it up or not? So, what do you guarantee? Are you kidding us? The SYRIZA proposal, which is a large section, is a separation of the national pension and the payroll. And today the New Democracy comes and tells us different stories here. What are you doing? You make it compulsory for everyone from here and beyond thirty-five, all right, that's well known, and you collect the workers' money and gamble it on the stock market. You finance the capital to make profits without guaranteeing anything in fact. Let go of these now. Why are you risking small, medium and large since there's no danger? Well, where do we live on another planet, or do you think capitalism will not have crises new and worse? And you're even talking about 2050 and 2016 that you're guaranteed etc. We therefore support the objection of unconstitutionalism in this respect and, in substance, that this is another robbery of the labour force, which is being handed over to the large capital that is acting in this area, but also elsewhere, and where the worker is and is likely to lose everything. At best, if it doesn't change - why laws change after each other - it can get back some money it has put in, while differences in gaming companies will have won their head hair - because they don't gamble differently - and the employee will be permanently lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Palphie for the time. It's important. Mr. Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Starting with, the distribution system generally has the logic of the constitutionally fixed redistributive tool of wealth, which, as it seems, is annoying the neoliberals, who, with the anti-constitutional memoranda, have prevailed, regardless of the governments concerned. In this context, SYRIZA’s plea of anti-constitutionality, when signing the third, anti-constitutional, of course, a memorandum with which, in essence, the two previous ones, this time, all three parties of the troika interior, were guaranteed the least oxime. Our Constitution, now, in Article 22 - Article 25 - assumes that SYRIZA claims it as an alternative - states, in the following words: "The state is looking after the social security of workers, as the law defines". Unfortunately, our Constitution is a flexible constitution, which is abused by each government, which plays the music of the individual government. In his hundred and twenty articles he empowers more than two times the joint legislator to regulate constitutional concepts. Such a provision is also Article 22(5) which, while stipulating that the State is taking care of social security, immediately thereafter gives the joint legislature the power to regulate the relevant matters. On the contrary, the Constitution should be simpler and stricter, containing general principles, while at the same time there should be a constitutional court to monitor any violations of the Constitution by cancelling the law universally. It is inconceivable that Greece should belong to those few countries that do not have a constitutional court when even Skopje or Turkey do. The reason is, obviously, that the Greek political system did not want to have such a constitution. It has established a constitutional text which, in essence, instead of protecting social interests against power, allows the executive authority in question to be imposed on society. SYRIZA's proposal invokes certain decisions of the Council of State. The Council of State, however, is not a constitutional court, it is the Supreme Administrative Court, and the validity of its judgment is limited to the specific case before it. Besides, the S.T.E. It is the one that regarded the memorandum as constitutional, constitutional, constitutional, the placement of wind turbines in the forests and so on. Finally, the S.H.E.L.D. It will be what will obey the law that the New Democracy will now vote for itself, of course, with the advantage of the fifty seats free of charge that the electoral system grants it. On the basis of the above, we consider that SYRIZA's proposal is hypocritical, so we do not support it. In closing, SYRIZA signed the third memorandum, SYRIZA signed the Prespecies and SYRIZA was the one who, while bringing in a proposal to revise the Constitution, did not want to correct the above bad texts of the Constitution. To avoid any misunderstanding, however, the Greek Solution is voting against the bill brought by the government, today’s bill. It cannot, however, hamper the bad texts in the Constitution, nor the hypocritical attitude of the SYRIZA by rejecting its objection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor on behalf of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, the fact is, of course, that for the Greek state, for our state, the last eleven'very beautiful' - in many introductory years it has been a memorial year - to remind us - which we have been through because of the Change Movement, the New Democracy and the SYRIZA, which parties had the governments that brought these Memorandums. So you have served and served as Troika’s commissioners for all these years, eleven. In such circumstances, as everyone knows, what does the state do? The state, Mr President, is withdrawn from his job - where his job is to be a provider of services and goods to his citizens, because that is how our Constitution defines many articles - and, finally, it is, as has been done in our case, perimeters have become - just one regulatory authority. That is what we mean when we say that the country has been in possession for eleven years. Our country is a regulator. You have legislated and governed all three within this framework, precisely with this objective. The opposition to the unconstitutionality of SYRIZA, therefore, while it is debated in accordance with the constitutional requirement of Article 22(5) on the obligation of our State to ensure the social security of workers, cannot, of course, be seen from the political body which is tabling it. Why, Mr President? Why is it the essential issue of social security? It is a strong and healthy labour market, which can finance the distribution of social security, which, however, all of you, the Memorandumists, have fought in favour of oligarchs without borders and their cheques for allegedly competitiveness. What did you bring? Deregulation and dramatic reduction in real wages - that is what you have all brought in, all three - permanently high rates of unemployment, lower real wages and thus increasingly fewer contributions. I mean, you finally brought a financial capitalist vacuum, even though you're capitalists, at least both. We in Mera25 have tabled, Mr President, a proposal for a law on the transfer of public property to the insurance funds and, finally, a special tax on banks, which will also be directed at our insurance funds, as realistic and sustainable ways of finding additional funds in favour of our public insurance system. Unfortunately, you have all clearly ignored this proposal, but, of course, you have your reasons! What are these reasons, Mr President? First reason: the GOEDD and your Supreme Court, which sell the public property and are children of your Memorandum Arc. Second reason? The rescue of the banks and the service to their bankers, which is the priority, of course, of your entire memorandum arch. Although we believe, Mr President, that it is important - and I close with it - that clearly unconstitutional any - to bring about a Memorandum of Understanding, because in reality it does and looks at giving our money and values to foreigners - that is what you do everywhere, that is what you do with red loans and everywhere - although we clearly regard as unconstitutional, essentially all the work of each Memorandum of Understanding as a manifest pretext for the opposition to unconstitutionalism of SYRIZA as it is now too late for tears and the voices about better management of our Memorandum misery are very regrettable but they no longer convince anyone. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u56	Wait a minute. In this process you can't talk, sir...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u57	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u58	There's no way in the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u59	You're wrong, Mr. President. It happens every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u60	According to the Rules of Procedure, it may be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u61	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u62	He is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u63	Just a minute. The procedure I think is clear. We have to finish, so we can move on. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, Parliamentary Representatives are always scheduled to speak. It's not about doing anything different. I imagine by mistake you said that. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the Constitution refers as the law stipulates, but it already has specific provisions that lay down a specific constitutional framework. And the laws must respect it. In this case, in the face of the constitutional requirement that subsidiary and social security should be public, compulsory, provided by the State or by legal persons governed by public law, we have one, by trik, breach of these constitutional guidelines, because it is nothing but an attempt to cover indirect privatisation, the establishment of the fund provided for by the ECA when it finally adopts the terms of the private insurance market. Because that's what this is about. And when it is clearly laid down within the Constitution, it is laid down that subsidiary insurance, social security must be separated from private insurance, which cannot be compulsory but optional - if someone is able to go to an insurance company and be insured - you come to do the completely different thing. And here is the intersection, which, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, the Mera25 and the JRC, you must realize and do not have an equalisation approach. Because if, at the end of the day, everyone else - SYRIZA, the New Democracy - is about the same thing in terms of social security, then do not complain. So understand that we have a negative incision here, which changes the characteristics of social security slowly. Fortunately the liberalisation of the Constitution, the constitutionalisation of liberal principles has not reached the point of changing the status of social security. In other things you may have done so in the European context, but in this area we still have something of the old conquests, their print in the Constitution. We cannot, then, at the moment, tidy things up and, above all, underestimate the great differences that exist in this matter. If I understood correctly from my colleague Mr Grigoriadis, he proposed a solution to support the insurance system by finding new resources. If there's such a proposal, we should see it, we should talk about it. Obviously there are changing circumstances, but in any case we must ensure the social nature of the insurance. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you cannot systematically say that the occupational funds are the same as the subsidiary. And you know that very well, and you were told by the institutions here when we heard the agencies. I remember the example of the professional fund of officials in the pharmaceutical warehouses, who spoke of a negative experience. So stop this trick, this alchemy, say that occupational insurance is about the same as the subsidiary. Most importantly after 2008, Mr Tsakloglu, you who are watching them well, who can, after this global negative experience, be a station for this incomplete and deadly neoliberal perception that there may be an eternal growth that thus covers by spreading global risks, creating financial products around the world, that is, a bubble, who can therefore, after the collapse of this theory, which we experienced in a painful way in Greece after a few years, with our entrance to the memoranda, talk about safeguarding the social character and contributions of workers? Consequently, the proposal for unconstitutionality is completely founded and what you are intervening in is whether, at the end of the day, the invocation of the Constitution is selective or universal. If you really think that you should legislate within the framework of the Constitution, then withdraw it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u65	Mr Skourletis, you are right, I thought that Mrs Xenonanakopoulou is a parliamentary representative. I was wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u66	That is what I told you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u67	So the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, not the other parties, has the same right. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the part of the majority, our secretary, Mr Bougas, invoking all the provisions of the Charter, all the existing provisions, but also the decisions of the supreme courts of the country, has shown that there is no question of unconstitutionality. You will allow me to take a more political approach to what has been said next. Indeed, Article 22(5) of the Constitution provides that the State is to ensure social security, as laid down by law. Like all constitutional forecasts it is general and could not be specific, since it does not touch the provisions of the Constitution regarding the form of the constitution and the basic functions, which are very specific. Then, from there on, the rapporteur for Officerial Response referred to certain decisions of the Council of State and, if you like, to the four points on which these decisions are based. I will retain one, that the state must be obliged to disconnect the business risk from workers' contributions, and that is indeed the result of all the predictions. But Article 60, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, is here to answer that objection, since, with the bill under discussion, the State does guarantee all the contributions of workers for subsidiary insurance, even taking account of inflation. You give the feeling, defending a system that was at risk of collapse in previous years, that you are supporting a system that, in essence, does not guarantee anything. Because if the workers' contributions were fully guaranteed, we would not have had any reductions in the previous years. And I wonder how this is done by PASOK executives who were forced because of the economic crisis in 2011 to reduce pensions to up to 35% -40%. You give the impression that you are determined once again to go to a retreat battle, to fight for a "licens empty shirt, for an Eleni", for an Eleni that is not in Troy. A shadow, an idol is there. In Egypt is Helen during our Nobel Prize. In other words, you're telling us that this investment fund does not gain, on the other hand, on the other hand, you're accusing them of bewildering. So you tell us that states such as Canada, which implement similar systems, are failed states and states such as Greece with today's systems are successful states. Where are these arguments based, really? Actually, or some kind of fantasy? And for the first time, ladies and gentlemen, I hear privatisation through the creation of a legal person governed by public law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u69	You found this, you innovated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u70	It's not, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, nor patent or innovation. It's a reasonable approach. The State's guarantee is always in the context of its potential, and this has been historically proven. You were told by my colleague from the JRC earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u71	You've captured the whole world and you're talking about potential!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u72	That's the reality. And if you wish, the care provided for by the Constitution and judged by the highest courts is compulsory, it is necessary. But can you especially guarantee that? History shows you can't guarantee it. So what do we do with today's bill? We are creating a new perspective, especially for young workers. The state comes here and says that it guarantees their contributions as a whole. But should I tell you something else that's escaped from everyone? Today who receives supplementary pensions, ladies and gentlemen? Whoever completes at least 15 years of insurance. If not, for strangers his money and contributions. With the new system, at least, it is foreseen that anyone who does not establish a supplementary pension entitlement will receive the capital of their contribution back. And that's fair, that's proportionate, it's democratic. I didn't hear you say anything about that. So don't fight for empty shirts. It is our responsibility, yes, to guarantee the viability of the pension system. No constitution says whether it will be redistributive or whether it will be capitalising part or all of the insurance system. You know that very well. Let us try, at least, to new generations, since demographic indicators are getting worse and worse in this place - and this is the big issue that we should address and discuss - how through these demographic indicators, we will give young people a better perspective. This is the case and should be a matter for every political party in the country and, in particular, for those who act on their moral responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u74	Will you speak of the unconstitutionality?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u75	Only for the unconstitutionality. I just have two texts to support what I'm going to say, I have nothing else. Please don't be afraid. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk about the substance of the bill, although I am certainly very surprised by the views of colleagues in opposition. I would have expected them to have seen the international experience, to have seen that this bill ensures greater supplementary pensions for young people and is not against young people. But that doesn't bother me at all. I'm surprised. I want to stand up to the issue of unconstitutionalism. SYRIZA objects to the article of the Constitution, by the way, 1975, of the New Democracy and Constantine Karamanlis, which says in Article 22(5) that the State ensures social security for workers. Then, as early as 1984, we have had decisions by either the Supreme Special Court of the Council of State or other courts - for example, ADR 87/97, Council of State 2290/15, 2202/10, 3487/08, 660/16 - which say that we are interested in who the provider is and not what the individual system is. In other words, it is of interest to the courts to be a public system as a whole, to provide the State, to be the provider, but from there on the system may be either distributive or capitalising, or purely capitalising or any other system. Therefore, this obligation is entirely covered here, because we are obviously talking about a system that is not only supervised by public authorities but is provided by a fund which, as has already been noted, is a legal person governed by public law. The Council of State in the decisions of 1889 and 1890 of 19 19 says that two obligations must be fulfilled to which the State, the viability of the system and the guarantee of a decent living. So here we come with this bill, and just in response to the spirit and letter of the Constitution, but also in the spirit and letter of these specific decisions of the Council of State, we come and do three things. Firstly, the system as I have already noted remains public, as the TSE is a legal entity governed by public law, which undertakes the task of ancillary insurance. Secondly, the proportionate study - in fact three studies have been submitted - which is shown to have been studied and taken into account by all demographic, economic and other indicators and ensures the sustainability of the system and, thirdly, the adequacy of the benefits and the sustainability of the system. In fact, Mr Bukouros mentioned earlier, who also spoke about those who have not completed 15 years, who have so far been uncovered - and with you as government - and from now on they will not stay with this system here, which you consider to be unconstitutional. Now, with the present system - the SYRIZA is annoyed by us, and Mr Buga and Mr Bukokouros - we have the occupational insurance funds, which operate in a purely capitalistic manner. The establishment and operation of these funds, which are, in fact, legal persons of private law, was decided by the Council of State by Decision 96/60/2017. I don't think you're denying this, you're just trying to arrogantly say no more is the funds for occupational insurance, and that's subsidiary insurance. You don't have to get into this suffering. I think you underestimate both yourselves and your party. From there on, I would like to say that this case-law requires the State to ensure the amount of the pension to be paid by those insured with resources from the State budget. How is that possible? Let me explain very specifically. Article 8, resources of the TSE Insurance Fund shall be the grant by the State budget to cover the expenditure arising from the application of the last subparagraph of paragraphs 3. So the state is present. In Article 60, a State guarantee at the time of the socio-security risks covered, the State guarantees the payment of a minimum monthly supplementary pension compensation, etc. So where is privatisation and where is unconstitutionality? We are talking about a fund that is a legal person governed by public law and the state is present and guarantees pensions. From there on, Mr President, I am closing down with two individual references to these documents which have misled colleagues. The one document which misunderstood them that I kept here is the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which you invoke on various occasions. What does the Scientific Committee of Parliament say today in this bill? As is clear from the wording of Article 22(5), the Constitution reserves the power to regulate the issues relating to the organisation and functioning of the social security institution of workers in accordance with the rules laid down by the general constitutional provisions, in particular on equality, etc. So they are directly in favour of the placement of Mr. Buga, Mr. Bukokouros and my position. Finally, we have the opinion of one of the three highest courts in the country to which you have not referred, even though this opinion is within the file of the bill. I refer to the opinion of the Court of Auditors. It refers to the recommendation by the two advisers accepted by the Court of Justice other than an adviser who disagreed that, despite the traditional redistributive nature of the Greek social security system, the Constitution confers on the institution of social security, and by making a reference to its promotion to a State, does not prefer, in its letter, the introduction of a system of one or other category, thus leaving the joint legislature with the power to form it. That is what the Court of Auditors always says in the insurance bills. In any case, if you do not have this position of the Court of Auditors, I would add a second one. In conclusion, therefore, with all the reservations justifying the specialisation of the technical parameters of the new ancillary insurance system introduced by regulatory acts, the proposed provisions could not be in line with the limitational constitutionality of which the relevant legislative choices are subject to being considered as in principle inconsistent with the constitutional provisions in force. Both the Council of State which you are misinterpreting and the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and, above all, the Court of Auditors, say that this bill is not unconstitutional. I cannot help but note that some opposition parties have at least been braked and have not joined with SYRIZA in this blind criticism, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is someone else who opposes a bill for political, ideological and other reasons not to see what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says, the Court of Auditors, the Council of State and so perverted the reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure has been concluded on the issue of unconstitutionality. We will move on to what has been established by the Conference of Presidents and by practice because of special health conditions, that is to say the parliamentary representatives of the parties will vote in accordance with the principle of declared. O Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u77	Opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u78	O Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u79	Explains.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u80	The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u81	Explains.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u82	O Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u83	Explains.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u84	O Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u85	Opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u86	O Parliamentary Representative of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u87	We're far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u88	The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute on the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u90	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u91	I think that this procedure cannot be followed. Exceptionally, for the very special case that was present in plenary, only the parliamentary rapporteurs had been approved at another stage of the pandemic. We are faced with an obvious disdain and contempt for the parliamentary process. I am not referring to the seventeen colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are present, but to the forty-eight who are absent from the special composition of this House. In other words, the Rules of Procedure, without exceptions, clearly state that these matters are to be decided exclusively by means of action. Tolerant and invoked by the person declared in some cases, when the measurements are marginal, or when it is clear that in any case some are missing - marginally, I repeat - the procedure goes ahead. However, it is not possible in the specific composition of a hundred and twenty when they are present from the other parties, almost all or 90% of the Members who have the right, that the parties in plenary have, in the majority of, seventeen Members present and colleagues, if I am not mistaken and that the procedure which has been declared to be completely beyond the Rules of Procedure should be invoked. I'm telling you right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u92	Good. I will pass it on to the Conference of Presidents where you are participating and there will be a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u93	No, no. You should be aware that even the Conference of Presidents if - I repeat - exceptionally in the very special circumstances of months ago had taken this decision, the plenary, and only the House, and indeed articles concerning Members alone in plenary, rather than their representation by the representatives of the parties, is responsible. So invoking this decision of the Conference is not about changing to another conference. It is 100% topic of the plenary to judge how it will vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u95	Please. There is no reason to continue such a process and waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u96	Always with due respect to the former President of the Parliament, but in order to avoid making impressions, we must say that this debate follows the vote. The vote was taken on the basis of the agreement of the Conference of Presidents. Whether this agreement will be reviewed for the follow-up will concern the Conference of Presidents again. From there on, of course, the President also referred to the principle of declared. The practical experience in such cases is that when an eruption count is marginal there is always an interruption, whether we are talking about the committees or about the plenary, and then there is a vote by means of a vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u97	Please. Let's close the conversation. It's not a matter. You said your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u98	The question of whether the Conference of Presidents will review its decision is one matter, Mr President. She hasn't done it for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u99	We continue with the first circle of speakers with Mr Dionysios Stamenitis. Please, ladies and gentlemen, now that you have begun the process of being in time because we have as I have told you a hundred and twenty speakers, and we have already been out of our schedule one and a half hours already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in plenary the bill of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security 'Security reform for the new generation', which is, in fact, a reform of the country's insurance subsidiary system. It is, like the title itself, a reform with a look at young people, that is to say, those who are now entering the labour market and who are planning their future. We are talking about arrangements that give perspective and within others they attempt and consider that they will succeed in reversing the prevailing concept that exists today in Greek society that young workers will never receive a pension. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has been working in a coordinated and methodological manner to tackle the whole of the confessed great and one of the main problems that has been stagnating the country for too many decades. And that's nothing but insurance. It is the citizens themselves who are afflicted by a system which does not actually respond to what they offer during their working life. And he would lie to anyone who claimed that for years there was no sense among Greek citizens. But that changes. The first step towards changing the insurance landscape in the country was taken with the significant changes in the main pensions that we voted on in 2020, for which it is important to remind those who have criticised it today that this is a real breakthrough in the history of the insurance system with changes that have contributed, in particular, to restoring the injustices, the rewarding nature of the system, the rewarding of those who work the most. The main reason for not forgetting this was that, for the first time in ten years, we have been discussing pension increases and not reductions. Why, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have reduced pensions. You cut 'em off. The Katougalu Law. All pensions. And the big ones and the little ones. In addition to its large contributions, it also imposed a drastic reduction in pensions. Farmers are well aware of that. They saw it: 495 euros are taken by those farmers who came out with the Katorugalou law. That's a big difference before 2015. The lawyers, the doctors, the professionals. They all saw the huge difference. And they see the difference between pensions and the new law we voted on. Today the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs goes further and comes to regulate the part of supplementary insurance with the aim of increasing the supplementary pensions for young workers through a system which ensures supplementary pensions for the current system, namely a new perspective for young workers on the one hand, which guarantees them that they will receive a pension corresponding at least to the actual value of the contributions they have paid and, on the other hand, guaranteeing the full benefits of old insured persons and current pensioners who are not affected, repeat once again. They're not affected by this piece of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion also emphasises that it is only for those receiving work from 1-1 to 2022 who are under an subsidiary insurance obligation and also for those who are on a voluntary basis up to thirty-five years old. By analyzing the provisions we can easily conclude that we have rules before us that operate in the interests of young people. How else can a section of the current social security system be interpreted by distributing funds into the introduction of individual piggybacks? It is a large section that will lead to an increase in supplementary pensions for all regardless of the new insured persons. It will enable more choices and better control of final pensions. It changes the mode of feeding and now the contributions of young people will be saved and invested. This will create a reserve from which their future pensions will be paid. The contributions paid by each new worker will go to their own pension and will not be used to pay the supplementary pension for the current pensioners, as they currently stand. The new system will still disconnect supplementary pensions from demographic developments and thus solve the problem of the negative influence of the progressive ageing of the population on the insurance system. It seeks as I said before to reverse the sense of doubt and of questioning the insurance system in the country and to build strong links of trust between young people and the insurance system. At the same time, a crucial element that comes as a result, overall, of the regulations of today's legislation is the upgrading of the sustainability of our country's social security system, while we must not overlook the indirect support of our economy, as an important part of this money collected will be invested in the Greek economy. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction to the vote of this draft law is nothing more and nothing less than our election commitments in the field of insurance. Faithful in the dogma of the implementation of the programme that we presented to the Greek people, who voted to implement it, we are today voting for the plan which will change radically and - we repeat - in the interests of young workers the map of our country's subsidiary insurance. With the new regulations, our country has admittedly, with a considerable delay, on the road that has long been followed by many developed countries, by the capitalisation programmes. And from the examples so far, we can conclude that they are successful models. Ladies and gentlemen, the transformation of the country cannot be achieved through words and philosophical debates on how to be better. We also need political decisions. The bill we are called upon to vote on today is one of these necessary changes that will substantially contribute to changing Greece and creating a better future for our children. That is why I call on you to support this legislative initiative by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by voting in favour of, finally, supporting young people and not, once again, being against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr Stamenitis, and the consistency in time. I believe that we will continue in the same context as Mrs Theano Fotio by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to privatise subsidiary insurance, the government invokes the country's existing demographic problem. However, this problem is being exacerbated by the government itself with its neoliberal policies on labour, unemployment and the social state two years ago. It is hypocritically using it to privatise subsidiary insurance, because the demographic situation is neither new nor only a Greek problem. It has been known forty years and the New Democracy in all previous governments has had a large dividend, a large share, which certainly did nothing. Demographically, some European countries, with the first of them in Germany, have dealt with it by including millions of refugees in the labour market. What are you two doing for two years now? You have reached us to blame us for illegal rethinking. France and the Scandinavian countries were faced with huge privileged expenses for free care services and a strong social state, nursery stations for all children free, school meals, generous child benefits, the elderly, the disabled and the mother, so that the woman can feel safe and give birth to her. You care services see them as a profitable new private capital sector that the Greeks should pay for. The school meals were assembled as pools and not only did you not increase the vouchers for infants, but you also left eighty-three thousand outside. We, as a government, reached welfare costs of 3,350,000 euros from 789 million euros that we received in 2015. You, in the five-year medium term, are supposed to grow in the heavens, keep them at 3,350,000 euros exactly. It should be noted that this expenditure is 2% of the country's GDP, when the European average is 4%. Not to say about 2015, where the country did not exist on Europe's pro-active map. It was at 0.04% of GDP. That's what you delivered us and 879 million for the children and the mother, which we got to 1,400,000. Women are late having children all over Europe. Do you know, however, how many benefits the mother student has in all European universities? You guys would cut her off on the minimum import base and if she managed to get in, you would cut her off because she wouldn't finish her studies in time. The decline in the fertility index of our country since the 1980s – 1.4 children per household with an increase in 2010 to 1.5 children per household – reaches the last decade of the economic and political crisis under 1.3. What does that say? It says that the more citizens' safety, economic and social, is getting worse and the fertility index is getting worse. With every bill and your act, that's exactly what you're doing. You are worsening and strengthening the insecurity of the new generation. The unanimous report of the 2018 Parliamentary Intergroup - which you voted for as a New Democracy - what did it say? He said: First, you need to take measures, employment policies, employment support and minimum wages. What did you do? You have insisted on the insecurity of young people who have the greatest unemployment in Europe with unpaid ten hours, with individual contracts of employment and have given the 2% increase in minimum wages. Secondly, he said the conclusion was "aiding childcare structures, benefits, tax incentives for young people, educational policy". What did you do? Beyond the eighty-three thousand children you left out of kindergartens, you left forty thousand outside universities. You decapitated them to take them to the expensive foreign universities, as the Prime Minister, or to the IEKs and to the colleges of the country, as the Minister of Education said earlier, where there is no need for import bases, simply a payment base is needed. You must avoid, of course, that in addition to the well-being of knowledge, which you deprive of of the forty thousand children who left out of universities, you also lack a safer future, since one of the seventeen graduates of higher education is at risk from ELSTAT, compared with one in five in five. You left the ESS unarmed, decapitated the Kikilia, Kontozamani, charging them the failure of the management of the pandemic and the vaccination and instructed Mr. Ploris to implement the announced sanitary redundancies to get private clinical authorities into the ESS. These result in Greeks paying 40% of their monthly health care and welfare incomes, compared with 20% they pay in Europe, ending their wages at two, three weeks, or as ELSTAT and EUROSTAT figures say, one in two Greeks is borrowed to make it more than a month. It is obvious, then, that demographics are not your concern. That is why I claim that you are using it as a pretext for this huge neoliberal overthrow in insurance. It is another law that the New Democracy is voting for itself, which society does not agree and is raised. It's obvious that you don't care about the new generation and its safety, it's the generation of up to thirty-five years old, which doesn't see what its future is, how it will survive by the doctrine of individual responsibility towards collective and solidarity. Individual responsibility for the pandemic, vaccination, individual contract of employment. Individual responsibility is also the individual pigeon which, when it breaks in forty years, all the young people today will see that, unfortunately, it is empty. The fiasco of reform also marks the failure of the government and the so-called state of service. It means it's a government in panic, which counts its end. We are here, the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, for a major change that will not implement private subsidiary insurance and will give security, security and perspective to all young people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u103	We also thank Mrs Theanos Fotio because she was consistent in her time. Now we will continue with Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis from New Democracy and immediately thereafter Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to his previous colleague, SYRIZA, and in the absence of arguments about the bill we are discussing, I will, in fact, speak of this flagship bill on the world of work. A legislative pioneer, innovative and focused on the reform of the subsidiary insurance of the new generation of our insured persons, those taking up work as of 1 January 2022, for whom the subsidiary insurance obligation exists, as well as voluntary for those who are up to thirty-five years old. A piece of legislation that comes to enhance the stability and sustainability of our public insurance system, to maximise the confidence relationships of young insured persons with the state, but also to add value to their contributions, which will no longer be taken by the insured themselves as inappropriate costs that are borne by their pockets, without being fruited with their own benefits and benefits. Why is the need not from today but from yesterday to this reform section? But it is precisely because we cannot, as a state, blind ourselves to the visible risk in 2050 that the average supplementary pension should be reduced from 16% to 10% of the average salary, just as the national analogy principle confirms. It is necessary to implement now as soon as a new strategy is relatively early, looking into the eyes and responding to the concerns of the new generation of insured people, who each day present a soul to the difficult and demanding labour market, without seeing the prospect of a decent pension, which the money that is so hard to earn and give to the insurance funds is channelled into many of the current pensioners and who have not chosen it to be the big losers of a distribution system that is now obsolete and ineffective, since fewer and fewer workers are being asked to cover up and maintain more and more pensioners. That is why the Government of the New Democracy boldly rationalizes and houses the insurance process by motivating on one hand the younger insured who are the most productive part of our society and also by shielding older people from the other. The key point of the major reform is to transform part of the current social security system from distribution to capitalisation. In other words, introducing the institution of individual money to ensure that the contributions of each newly insured person rather than being channelled as it has been in a common corps in favour of current pensioners are stored in separate individual accounts and can by decision of the insured persons themselves be invested on the basis of three investment profiles. So the insured not only will feel that their money has a dynamic within the time that can provide them with more choice but also better control over the final supplementary pension they receive, but also the national economy will also be supported, since much of the money collected will be invested in the country in the example of the majority of OECD countries that successfully implement similar supplementary capitalisation schemes, without jeopardising the compulsory public security. In the face of this timely reform, the Opposition, and especially the Civics, again chooses to be on the wrong side of history. It selects fear, toxicity and ostrichism. It accuses us of risking the money of the insured, because it will be a heir of the risk and gambling, as if they did not see the double guarantee for both young people and old people from the possibility of risking even 1 euro of their pension. On the one hand, there is nothing to change for existing insured persons up to thirty-five years since the current pensioners themselves do not want to do so in any way anyway. Furthermore, not only will any fiscal cost of transition always be covered by the state budget, but also in the event that something is wrong with their contributions investments, the state guarantees that the insured will get back all the contributions paid plus inflation. In any case, not only does none of the current pensioners run the risk of seeing a reduced supplementary pension in their bank account, but the soil is also cultivated for significantly higher supplementary pensions for all young people insured from 43% to 68% according to OECD studies. We are also blamed by the Qualified Opposition that we are increasing contributions, hiding that the level of contributions does not just remain at 6.5% by the middle of 2022 but goes down to 6%. And of course he blames us for privatising subsidiary insurance. "What you had, Yannis, what I've always had" from the Left of this place, who dreams all of it under the cover of lousy state-of-the-art paternalism. Let it be stressed once again: no privatization is taking place. What is going on is the creation from 1 January 2022 of a new public fund of ancillary capitalisation insurance, with specialised and recognised scientific value staff, which will operate by applying private-economy practices and investment philosophy, that is to say, everywhere in the modern world. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, leaving the sloppies and genographies behind in SYRIZA, today brings a bill on subsidiary insurance, the adequacy and necessity of which are documented by three studies: a proportionality, a macroeconomic and a sustainability of public debt. With these studies and good practices at international level, we propose a reform that disconnects supplementary pensions from demographic developments and the gradual ageing of the Greek population, which creates a new independent and stable insurance pillar with a significantly greater degree of reciprocity and freedom, and finally a reform that causes multiple and combined benefits for the insured and for our national economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, following the failure of the state in two key areas of vaccination, on the one hand, to prevent and deal with the fires that the Prime Minister himself has confessed by replacing all the political leaderships of the relevant ministries, following the final fiasco of remodelling, where you seem to be constantly excellence without failures is the consequence of the delayed amendments made to the many articles. Last night another fourteenth amendment to articles like the nineteenth articles of the vaccination plan which came half an hour after the formal end of the meeting. You had a month, a whole month, and you brought the previous debate to plenary yesterday, the fourteen articles. That's what shows your curiosity. You're not even managers, not political managers, just managers. The government and its associates have long supported them in an orderly manner through the controlled means of communication that the bill has two goals. The first objective is to limit the risks of our insurance system resulting from demographic ageing and to address the worsening relationship of insured pensioners. It's the first lie of the government. You are denied by the former Minister of Labour, Mr. Brutsis, February 2020: "The insurance reform of Law 4670/20 guarantees the viability of the insurance system by 2070". Secondly, higher supplementary pensions for the new generation are supposed to be provided. This is the second lie of the government. The analogous principle itself disproves you in the study of February 1920, which reads on pages 43 and 44. It disproves you of the GFCM with the alternative of the Pissaridis report on pages 44 and 45. For reasons of brevity, I am tabling the relevant documents in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The government, beyond SYRIZA's populism, promises: "This new system will give young people much better pensions" a statement by Mr Tsakloglu in committee on 31/8. So in general and beyond much better pensions. The ambiguity has been proven, it is the core of populism. We are asking in particular: The average supplementary old age pension that last July was EUR 198,15 in accordance with the 'HIOS' scheme of the Ministry of Labour, and the report by the committee of the proportionality principle mentioned above will gradually increase, tell us what amounts of supplementary insurance are you committing young people to the new scheme, EUR 250, EUR 300? What about 198? I present the relevant extract from the ELIOS system. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned quote from the ‘LIOS’ system, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Of course, I will say below what is specific in this study. But say a certain number. We as a Change Movement are talking in particular. All the years that we have gone through reforms, changes and policies toward us the Greek people we speak straight away. And in the difficult times of the difficult decisions even then we spoke clearly. You don't. Therefore, against young people today, the insured and the taxpayers on account of the fact that your New Democracy has already fooled and mortgaged the future. Firstly, while maintaining the unacceptable SYRIZA Catarou law, which had made a commitment in the run-up to the election to abolish, it reduces the basic pensions for young people from 20% to 35%, i.e. at least EUR 200 to 250 fewer pensions will get young people. Secondly, instead of supplementing these EUR 200, 250 that lose by abolishing the Katrugalos law, they promise a precarious increase according to the proportional study of 11% to 13% in subsidiary companies, that is, on the basis of EUR 200 20 to 25. This is the restoration of the promised young people, a mockery which, of course, will be denied many years later when you will be hardened by the government. I think that is now something you have not apologized for. Thirdly, the truth is that this bill leaves room for reductions in subsidiary pensions even 25% to 30% lower than today. Fourthly, the cost of moving from one system to another in order to implement your ideological position, but not just ideological and a feasibility for which I will speak below. The cost that is 78 billion will be paid by young people themselves with their contributions and their taxes and all the taxpayers will pay this cost of your policy. The analogy says 56 billion, it's 78 to 2070. And where's that money going? It's the fifth point of mocking. Youth contributions, as you say, will not go to the bay, they will go to investment, they will go into precarious positions. There are no safe places on stock exchanges, derivatives and all of this. There aren't any. We, therefore, have the PASOK that has established and maintained even in difficult conditions - yes, the ESS that SYRIZA has abolished, the other progressive reformer like you, Katrugalos - we who have maintained the lower pension thresholds that protect the low-pensions, which SYRIZA has abolished with Haikalis this time not Katrugalos, and which New Democracy, while denounced these policies, is now coming to maintain them. We therefore have a responsible opposition to criticism, control and documentary proposals. What did we tell you? Strengthen the second pillar of subsidiary insurance with professional funds, professional insurance, which is developing throughout Europe by replacing the failed system that you are now entering Greece. It has failed this system and it is replaced by the professional funds and you must go through this phase of failure. Why? To go directly to the solution that today seems to be walking. And in Greece, all the funds that have become professionally go very well under the PASOK law since 2002, are going very well. We are proposing that, with amendments that we have tabled forty years of real compulsory insurance, it should be a pension with no limit. Accept it, it's an act of restitution of justice, forty years real without redemption. We propose no further increase in age limits. The limits have already been increased from the previous government by ten to fifteen years by the Katorugalou law. We suggest that you respect pensioners and especially low pensioners, and if you do not want to support them at least do not mock them. Finally give them the pensions they are entitled to and do not transfer from spring to summer from autumn to autumn and now you tell them that in spring '22 you will pay the pensions. Finally give the pensions and retrospectives ordered by the courts. We suggest that you do not cut the national pension, restore the Pontius and the expatriates who came to Greece in '92 and in fact cannot have documented and completed forty years of stay. It's an act of justice to our relatives. But instead of actually doing this bill, you're the one who drugizes the public insurance system and instead of undermining social cohesion and expanding inequalities, instead of triggering social automation, you accept some of our proposals, so that you can show that you have a minimum sensitivity towards pensioners, the insured and, more generally, the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u107	Be well, thank you very much. We continue with Mr Christos Tarantilis from New Democracy. The following is followed by Ms. Olga Gerovasilis, Mr. George Kotsos from New Democracy and Mr. George Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece. Then we still have four speakers. Let me inform you that at the end of the first cycle, the Minister will speak. Mr. Skourletis has asked for the floor after that. We will see for the parliamentary representatives. Here you go, Mr. Taradili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to vote on an insurance reform that has eyes turned solely on the new generation of workers. This draft law attempts to radically reform the architecture of the public subsidiary insurance system by gradually introducing for the first time a capitalisation system for the financial operation of insurance contributions in its place until now an existing distribution system. The planned reform is a necessary and inevitable innovation for the Greek reality, which has been delayed and can no longer be postponed. Demographic trends in the whole world are particularly noticeable, and in our country they lead with mathematical accuracy to a reduction in the ratio between active insured and retired persons, which prescribes as a fatal consequence the ingestion of supplementary pensions. This conclusion is based on unresolved mathematical calculations and is not a product of ideological payments. The obsession with the distribution system, namely the payment of the pensions paid from the annual contributions in the hope of the active people, that the next generation will do the same for them is on the basis of demographic correlations actually a utopia. Therefore, the issue in this bill is not to assess the correctness of the transition of subsidiary insurance from distribution to capitalising, because this option is dictated by all economic and sociological findings. It is a question of shaping all these conditions that will make the planned transition effective in practice, reliable to citizens and sustainable over time. In this context, I would like to point out that this draft law is introduced together with a proportionate and macroeconomic study, as well as an analysis of the sustainability of the public debt. Therefore, in each version the proposed solution is fully documented and financially audited so that it does not leave any room for doubt on its long-term positive pension footprint. With regard to the scope of the reform, this draft law, firstly, relates to subsidiary insurance, i.e. the second pillar of social security, which operates periodically and is required to contribute to ensuring the level of living complement to main insurance. It is not, therefore, about or in any way about the formation of the main pensions. Secondly, it does not concern and does not affect existing pensions and current pensioners. As has already been said, it is compulsory for new entrants on the labour market from 1-1 to 2022, and on a voluntary basis for workers aged between 30 and 30. In other words, this is a reform aimed solely at the new generation of workers, as we have said. The innovation of the new system is essentially the creation of individual accounts bearing the name of each insured person and the possibility of investing the contributions collected. Installation of money into investment portfolios is attributed to a pension which is increased depending on the level of returns. This investment option is compensated by the State guarantee, which ensures that the pensioner receives in any case a pension corresponding to the actual value of the contributions paid. In this context, with the legislative proposal that we are discussing today, we are exempted from the demographic risk of the distribution system and are attributed to them the investment benefits of the capitalisation system without risking the loss of the contributions they have paid. This is how it establishes a public and truly liberal system. The implementation of this reform is entrusted to a newly established insurance institution, the Auxiliary and Capital Insurance Fund. The investment activity of that entity, subject to the principle of sound prudent management, to the diversification of the portfolio and the dispersion of investment risk, together with the establishment of an investment committee set up by certified capital managers, creates a structured framework of risk-sensitive investment capacity and the possibilities to ensure stable returns. The same proportional study on which our proposal is based in three different scenarios in terms of the evolution of the human anthropogeography of social security provides for an average nominal return on investment which can reach between 11% and 13% higher than today, while in the full evolution of the new system the rate of increase can be even higher. The Auxiliary and Capital Insurance Fund should become the model that will foster the confidence of the insured in the State's ability to guarantee their property and work life, as well as create the belief that the relationship of a citizen is both two-way and beneficial. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision of decent pension benefits is at the heart of the social state. The data on which the uninterrupted performance of the pension entitlement depends dictate the need to adjust the supplementary pension scheme to new bases. The stagnation of the distribution system which condemns subsidiary insurance in certain marbles gives its place in this bill of law to a fairer and more dynamic system for exploiting the capital of the working life of citizens. Staying public and socially liberal, subsidiary insurance takes a new breath and demands the confidence of workers in the insurance system. That is why I am voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much. I would like to ask this House for a facility for Mr Francis. The colleague who is a doctor has asked to be placed in the first circle of speakers because he has an urgent medical obligation. And I would like him, if you agree, to be able to speak. Now Mrs Olga Gerovali is following by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill that is coming to turn the insured of the country into investors and investors who gamble and gamble and barely gamble. In fact, they don't gamble, but some Golden Boys in the name of the insured. What are they gambling for? The life of the insured. All this on the background of yesterday's remodeling - a shipwreck, as was the management so far and the health crisis and the huge crisis that arises after the fires of summer. We have told you in those days, Mr. New Democracy's colleague, that if your plan is to fire out at sea and citizens are to be transported from one burning coast to another burning coast, I think you don't need firefighters, you don't need fire-fighting airways, but I think you need to buy ships. You, of course, realized that you should start with Admiral. I am, of course, pleased that Mr Mitsotakis has chosen a person from Alexis Tsipras, but even if Apostolakis has retained his dignity and has kept distance from government planning, what we can say about a government and a Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who cannot complete a reform. And what did we hear next? That he was not completed under the responsibility of SYRIZA and, of course, with the necessary qualifications that the Government spokesman for Mr. Apostolakis, who was in the previous day, a person who hailed the trust of the Greeks in intergroups. Of course, with regard to the Ministry of Civil Protection, we had not proposed this to Mr Mitsotakis, but we had proposed setting up an independent body with the head of joint acceptance so that every time elections are held and the government is changed, because in front of us we will have the effects of the climate crisis with all that it entails. One example we lived through this year, but also before. It's just that the phenomena come and winter that he won't be easy either. And so much was prepared for the climate crisis by Mr Mitsotakis, who understood in all this that the word of consensus does not require two sides and that consensus is made at the direction of Mr Mitsotakis. That's what he understood! I am a little beyond that, although the tragic effects of summer, that is to say, about a million four hundred thousand acres burned together with the lives of our fellow citizens who have seen them deplete, I think he should have abstracted it. Was the remodeling a solution? Obviously, it wasn't. However, I think it started as an attempt to cover up failure, to finally develop into fiasco. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, because at his request everything is done, so I am referring to him - has failed at all levels of this complex crisis that we have been experiencing in recent years. Health, safety, tourism, civil protection, economics and, of course, insurance is now coming. And what did Mr. Mitsotakis' ministers leave behind for reconstructing yesterday? In health the country is once again ignorant of the other opening up of tourism and of the lack of substantial measures. Instead of being supported by staff, the NSA is falling apart. And now the extreme is coming, I would say, bishop Mr Plois, to apply discrimination policy as a national policy. The main task will be to co-decide which workers will be suspended each time. In the police, all that stays behind is three to four thousand special guards and a work of zero. For example, the outgoing minister mentioned in his report yesterday the ambitious - he says - a plan for domestic violence in police stations. These sections remind me that they were founded in 2019 on the SYRIZA government and Mr Chrysochidis found them ready. He had to move on. It wasn't his ambitious project. The law passed on civil protection by the New Democracy was inapplicable. She saw it herself. That's why he suspended him in March. He had voted for him in February. On the other hand, SYRIZA has tabled it again twice, in 2019 we tabled it for the first time - our proposal based on the conclusion of the Goldday Committee by codecision between all ministries, many scientific bodies and, of course, local government, first and second degrees, which was fully in agreement. It is a possible project based on the existing structures of the state. None of this was a priority. The New Democracy does not see the police officer next to the civilian, but the police officer even controls the civilian's breath, as the outgoing Minister told us yesterday. At the same time, outside universities forty thousand candidates, twenty thousand empty posts in universities. Incoming the Greek police at the university. Insecurity at all levels, social, health, labour, economic and insurance now. Insecurity, uncertainty about retired, old and young. Because the new capitalisation system only concerns new insured persons. And once the fondness of the funds opens, who will hold them? Who will cover the EUR 70 billion travel costs to the new system? How will pensioners' pensions be paid today when workers' contributions do not fall into the system? Ladies and gentlemen, our disagreement does not exhaust that subsidiary insurance is being privatised here. Moreover, it is foreseen that the insured will necessarily invest their contributions in mid-risk stock exchange products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And, of course, they can choose whether to be high or low-risk. Maybe there's a need for stock exchange consultants to pay extra. Who does not remember the tobacco-smoking fund reserve scandal? Not to mention something about investment in the stock market in 1999 has been dismantled. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy once again gambles and gambles the money of the insured and the workers on loan. Loan and unscrupulous. He even openly gambles at the expense of collective social institutions for the benefit of a few and powerful funds and as long as the funds are prepared for the "partner" country, the captain is missing as far away as he can from his responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum: "Reform of expulsion and return procedures for citizens of third countries, attracting investors and digital nomads, issues of residence permits and procedures for granting international protection and other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum and the Ministry of Civil Protection". Mr. George Kotsos has the floor, and Mr. George Marinos will be followed by Mr. Fragidis, then Mr. Dionis Aktypis, Mrs. Charula Kafantaris, Mrs. Asmakopoulou and Mrs. Bakada. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we used to say that subgenitality and demographic problem are a night bomb on the foundations of Greek society. And not just Greek society. Europe and the Western world. I have the feeling that this bomb has now secured itself and, indeed, our society and our insurance system are at risk, because fewer and fewer enter the labour market and we are trying to support more and more people in retirement. And here are two relentless questions: Is there a feeling that the present insurance system is sufficient? Can he support both workers and pensioners over time? And the other question is if the new generation, our new fellow citizens trust the present insurance system and they estimate that they can have a decent pension. Because I have the feeling that you all agree that these two questions are being answered negatively, our Ministry and our Minister are coming with this draft law which sets the following four objectives: first, to restore the stability of the insurance system. Secondly, to strengthen saving. Thirdly, the creation of higher pensions for the young insured and fourth and most importantly, to restore the confidence of the young generation, not only in the insurance system but also in the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is a bill that introduces greater stability, greater security, more confidence in our insurance system. And most importantly, we all have to recognise that this bill focuses on the new generation, focuses on tomorrow, in the future of our society, focuses on tomorrow's Greece. So we are going ahead with the path that has already been followed by other developed countries, as I said before, because they too are facing the same problem of birth and demographic decline, such as Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands. In short, we are not apprentices of magicians, but good practice, good tactics that have been tested, and we in our country do. In fact, this system has been shown to lead to much higher pensions than 43%, as estimated, up to 68%. So we have been following models that have been in place for decades in a multitude of European countries and are estimated to lead to higher supplementary pensions for young insured persons, without of course affecting older people or existing pensioners. The central idea of the new system is the introduction of elements of a capitalisation system to supplementary pensions for both new entrants from 1-1-2022 who are liable for subsidiary insurance and volunteering for employees and self-employed persons up to thirty-five years old. Thus, instead of the insurance contributions of young people working for the payment of supplementary pensions for existing pensioners, the contributions paid by each young worker will go to his own ‘head’ in his own personal pension, calculated on the basis of the cumulative amount of contributions and remuneration. Every worker involved in this system will have, as I have said his own'multiple', where his contributions will be saved and invested in order to create a reserve with which future pensions will be paid. It was heard by colleagues who criticised this bill that social security is being privatised. Is that right, colleagues? Who will manage this fund? Any private corporations? It is provided for in the draft law, the Minister explained it, the creation of a public fund, the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, a legal person governed by public law, which will in fact operate by applying private-sector practice and investment philosophy. It will invest the savings, but mostly and sovereignly it will be subject to state control, state supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, it has also been said that we are gambling with the money of the young people insured. Do you really think that? Is it not ensured that anyway their invested capital will receive the money that they have already deposited, taking account of inflation? Is this gambling or making sure they get the pension on the basis of the contributions they have made? Moreover, insured persons are allowed to choose between three investment profiles, conservative, balanced and aggressive, and of course every five years, depending on their willingness to differentiate this investment profile so that they themselves are involved in the development of their insurance process. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that this draft law is a flagrant draft, it is a forward plan and, above all, it looks at the future, looks at tomorrow's generation and ensures it. It is a reform that concerns young people and tries to reverse and reverse the belief of most young people that they will probably never retire. We are here, therefore, to ensure that they do not only receive a pension but they will also receive a higher pension and, above all, this will happen because we are legislating today for society, with a look at the future, with a look at tomorrow. We do not stick to the past and above all do not function in a party interest, but on the basis of the common good. I therefore support with all my powers this draft law, and I urge all of you to stand alongside the new generation, on the side of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much for the time. Here comes Mr. Marino from the Communist Party, and then Mr. Francis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. The Government of New Democracy promoted the bill, an abortion for the 10th hour, the abolition of eight hours, the increase in unpaid working time, the expansion of flexible forms of employment, and the right to strike. Today it brings to Parliament the monstrous task of privatising and dismantling subsidiary insurance, escalating the anti-population attack at least in the early 1990s, because structural reactive changes had begun since the 1980s. All governments have imposed reductions in pensions, increases in retirement age limits, exemption from employers and the state from insurance obligations. They robbed the funds' reserves. They rejected the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. You all opened the way for professional funds operating on the basis of the capitalisation system, the privatisation of insurance, gambling. PASOK - KINAL is accomplice with the New Democracy for all the above. In the period 2011-2015, pensioners lost 8 billion euros. SYRIZA maintained all the anti-grassroots measures of the New Democracy and PASOK and voted for the 2016 law, the Katorugalo law on demolition of social security. SYRIZA abolished the lower pension and legislated the unfaithful capitalisation now extended by New Democracy. He set up the National and Remuneration Pension System that reproduces misery. The national pension of 20 years of insurance is EUR 384 and the payroll with twenty years of work and 700 euros pay is EUR 84! No one can live with this pension. This disgusting system has been maintained by the New Democracy. You all implement the strategy of the European Union that was the first to dismantle social security, to make insurance an individual case. It increased the retirement age limits that go to seventy and seventy-two years and promotes so-called active ageing for work until death. You advertise, ladies and gentlemen of the government and other parties, the Scandinavian model of the three pillars, but you hide, Mr Hatzidakis, that the main pension is below 45% of the last salary and below 40% for young workers. The capital fund you set up, gentlemen of the government, is not an ancillary insurance fund but an investment fund to which the employee's contributions will be collected on an individual account and invested in stock exchange products. In other words, workers' work will be played in gambling, with great risks of being left out of supplementary pensions. That's why you're asking them to choose for the level of risk if it's low, medium or high. You are seeking to take advantage of the workers' contributions to give EUR 86 billion to investors, to support the development of the capitalist economy. By this criterion, the government is legislating against young people and older insured persons and you are resorting, Mr Hatzidakis, to the great lies. You say the returns of the capitalist system are higher. the redistributive. You are trespassing on the needs of retired people and putting false dilemmas and expectations. No one knows if and what pension he'll get. The insured will live at constant risk from market fluctuations, capitalist crises, the bankruptcy of insurance companies. The bankruptcy of the 'SPIRE', 'ENRON' and dozens of others warn. The Government - and I say this for Mr Tsakloglu - cynically accepts that the returns on individual account investments may be negative - is what you say in your interviews - and the state will guarantee workers to get their contributions back. They're going to be disrespected contributions, crumbs, not pensions. They'll be running in the courts. The three largest insurance companies operating pension reserves in Denmark - because a New Democracy MEP brought it as an example - had great losses in 2020 on stock exchanges. The insured loses over EUR 40 billion and the advice of insurance companies to their customers to extend their stay on the labour market until the situation changes. That's the reality! In practice, you are abolishing supplementary pension. This is not only about young people, but about the whole. Because the contributions directed towards the individual accounts of young people will blow up the subsidiary fund of older people in the air. The attack is comprehensive and the struggle is unified for all workers. Where and how far do young workers with their contributions pay the pensions of the current pensioners? Leave it dirty, Mr. Hatzidakis, social automation. The current pensioners have spit blood and paid contributions. Where did they go? You robbed them? You're looking for pretexts. Decades you refer to the demographic problem you are responsible for your policy of high unemployment, underemployment, 'black' work, the war that you are doing in young workers and women, in new couples. You're hypocrites and philosophers. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Capitalism has rotted. Barbarity affects all sectors and affects all workers' rights. Your measures are rejected by the working class and the populace, the young and the young. And the conflict will continue to abolish all insurance laws, increase wages and pensions, for the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, to reduce the retirement age limits, for public, universal, compulsory social security, to build a single system including pension rights, health prevention and rehabilitation services, social welfare benefits and services, in order to satisfy popular needs with the wheel of power in the hands of the working class. This crucial issue has been raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u115	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Francis Georgios from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Madam President. I feel the need to thank all my fellow Members for their understanding. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the insurance system in Greece so far has been distributive for main and subsidiary insurance, based on an intergenerational contract, with the pensions of the insured being financed from the next generation. With this draft law, the Government brings the capitalisation system only to subsidiary insurance for new entrants and for young people up to thirty-five years on a voluntary basis, creating for each individual unit aggregation based on contributions. Faithful to the implementation of its neoliberal programme re-embodies the social state. Without a social consensus, it brings a bill that gives rise to considerable responsibility for the citizen for dealing with risks such as ageing, disease and accident, tracing values such as intergenerational solidarity, social rights, social justice and equality, human dignity. It blinds the eye to young people, stumbling that for the maliciousness of the public social security system and the problem of working is responsible for their parents, whom they will finally stop paying. It applies its friendly method "divides and reigns", artificially divides society, creates controversy between generations, workers and retired people, but also between workers. It prejudges individuality against collectiveity. He wants citizens locked up in their microcosm, focusing on their own interests, away from collective claims, weakened. It reduces the self-proof value of the social state especially in our time with the successive crises in health and the economy. It promises younger pensions than gambling their contributions to domestic and international financial markets and capital markets whose course is clearly precarious. It is clear that the new system does not guarantee the amount of pensions except for the reimbursement of contributions. It creates a transition cost for the new system, which is estimated at EUR 56 billion, but which is launched at EUR 75 to 80 billion if the minimum disability and death benefit is taken into account, a cost with a negative impact on the state budget and public debt, of course, which will probably lead to new austerity and cutbacks and which will be called upon to pay through taxation for the self-employed and the workers. On the basis of the supplementary pensions and the expected increase in life expectancy estimated in about eight years, the new system will bring about a reduction in future pensions by 25% to 35%. The stake in a possible new economic crisis is the resilience of the Greek economy since it will be called upon to cover with poor public revenue and the cost of transition and the difference in the guaranteed supplementary pensions of the new system. The capitalisation system does not face the demographic threat since few workers do not contribute effectively to the creation of a high capital. The Government argued that with Law 4620/2020 on Mr. Brutsis it ensured the sustainability of the public insurance system by 2070, even with the difficult assumptions, demographic and labour, in Greece. Why now is it going on in the subsidiary's capitalisation? He's just lying and I'd say no matter what. It uses - let me say - the cheese of advanced Sweden to catch us in its communication face. It argues that subsidiary insurance in Greece has been of a monitoring character since the beginning and cannot be moved from its distribution logic. It does not tell us that in Sweden a different system operates with its own structure and philosophy. The contributions for individual knots amount to only 2.5%, occupying a small part of the public pension pillar. Here in Greece it's around 6.5%. Any reform in Sweden also comes from dialogue and agreement with the social partners, where, in fact, the trade unions are involved in the operation of the social security system. From the transition the government is trying to win, it is only the private companies that will gamble on the contributions of the insured. Our proposal concerns the strengthening of professional insurance with tax incentives. In addition, in 2002 PASOK established occupational insurance and in 2012 the first professional funds were set up. Finally, I would like to comment on two of the amendments tabled by the Change Movement. Firstly, the abolition of the reduction in the national pensions of members of the Greek minority of Albania and of relatives from the countries of the former Soviet Union. These citizens who came to Greece in 1990 and got a Special ID card homonymous in '98, we propose that they should be excluded from the provisions of Law No.4387/2016, otherwise they will not be retired since it is impossible to complete forty years of residence by '37. The second relates to old age pensions after the forty years of compulsory actual employment. We consider it to be social law for workers who started working at an early age and who have provided their contributions to the insurance system for a long time, to be able to build up the right to a pension without age and with forty years of actual compulsory insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Dionysios Akuppis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u118	Isn't the Minister going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u119	He'll talk at the end of the first circle. Mr. Abby, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we have in our hands is a new, full and complete framework that reforms the subsidiary insurance system in Greece. Through the mesh of provisions introduced, there is a need to upgrade and strengthen supplementary pensions for the benefit of young insured persons. This is, moreover, a reform of the supplementary insurance system, which focuses on young people in our country. Through the provisions of the new bill, it is attempting to overturn the most, unfortunately trapped, belief of the young people in our country that the moment of their retirement will never arrive. So with the bill, this supplementary pension scheme for young people is finally changing. The aim of the new bill is by creating an individual money, not only for young people to acquire control over their supplementary pension but also for them to receive a higher pension, which is already the case in many developed countries of Europe, where this system is successfully implemented. It is no coincidence that the new model introduced follows successful models that have been applied for several decades in European countries. It should be stressed that, as demonstrated by research and studies carried out by valid bodies, the new draft law will lead to significantly higher supplementary pensions for the new insured, without affecting either the old insured or the new pensioners. The core of the bill is to be able to respond as a state, in essence and effectively, to the excessive burden that demographic ageing represents on our insurance system, which leads to injustices in social security and burdens the demographic data of the whole country. To this problem, and to what further problems arise from this, the current bill comes to give the best possible solution, with responsibility, with full and technocratic abilities, looking after the new insured and the existing pensioners, offering double guarantees so that no one loses their money and securely builds a new framework, which, based on the examples so far, gives the benefits for each new recipient of supplementary insurance. In summary, the new bill leads to significantly higher supplementary pensions for all young people insured, provides more choices and better control over the final pension, guarantees that the amount of the pension cannot be lower than the amount corresponding to the contributions paid, dissociates supplementary pensions from demographic developments and the gradual ageing of the Greek population, strengthens youth confidence in the public insurance system, upgrades the sustainability of the entire social security system in the country and supports the national economy, since much of the money collected is to be invested in the Greek economy. However, despite the clear positive sign of this bill, the Acoustic Opposition on its part continues to insist on the consolidated and yet obsolete logic of "no to everything", not everything without a valid alternative, without a specific plan, without even a thorough criticism, based on evidence and research. The argument of counter-population is based on the supposed social reactions, which this draft law is supposed to cause. Social reactions, you should know there in Anti-Population, as far as this draft law is concerned, the benefits which many and clearly are for society are only in the sphere of fantasy. Do you think there will be social reactions because supplementary pensions will increase, because citizens will have more choices and increased supervision of where they go because state guarantees will increase? I would say you should stop dreaming of marches and plaques. Stop believing and coming to have social unrest, anger and impoverishment, just to secure the chair of power. Ladies and gentlemen, today a reform is being introduced with a very positive sign, because it is designed with political responsibility, with social sensitivity and technocratic adequacy, which seeks to solve a major issue of our times, to achieve a great and important objective, which is no more than an effective decoupling of the prospect of pensions from demographic and population developments, which over- and unjustly burdens young people. Another promise made in the context of this government's systematic and uninterrupted effort to ensure the development of our country, the modern and operational structures and the overall modernisation of Greece is now being implemented by the new insurance reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now, Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor for SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u122	Madam President, thank you. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr Mitsotakis' government, you cannot do a reform. After your misfortune, unfortunately, in the management of forest fires - and we discussed this very extensively yesterday - after the so-called pandemic, after the forty thousand students left outside the higher education institutions, you come and make a remodelling, the Mitsotakis Government, which is a remodeling we need to call it a shipwreck. It's a remodeling - fiasco. The Minister for Civil Protection is missing, a new Ministry has been created on paper, but it has been announced and has no political leadership. And anyway, the recent evidence, which has now been publicly announced, raises serious objections to the placing in the Ministry of Health of the new minister responsible. Finally, you are described as a government of the New Democracy, rather than a government of Mr Mitsotakis, by a profoundly ideological policy, unfolding out in all areas, a neoliberal policy which ignores the 'human' factor and the value of public goods. Privatization in education, and the issues of pan-Hellenics, and all that happened, show that there you want to take it, clientele in the private sector. Privatization of health. Since today, the sanitaries have been suspended. How to deal with the issue of public health and the needs of the galloping pandemic are a question. On the other hand, privatization in public goods, privatisation in electricity networks and I cannot say, Minister, since you have also financed the respective Ministry before, that electricity prices have increased very much. In addition to the increase you made to supposedly save PPC in September 2019, since August 1st, new increases disproportionate to the cost for people's households. Of course, there are always some who win. Increases in first-demand species for all families, and especially for people's families. Increases we read up to the bread. Well, that's the reality we're experiencing in government Mitsotakis. Now, instead of public policy in the management of the pandemic, the State's interventions in this, we have individual responsibility. We break our hands as government and go to logic 'You have a responsibility' for the world. Goods and services of the social state are delivered to individuals and the market. Everyone's gonna make it on their own, without state care, and of course with great uncertainty, insecurity, precariousness. Of course, the inequality in society is something normal during Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister. A favoured state must ensure security for its citizens. Security is not just not stealing me or being able to go on the road without risks. Security is to feel like I'm working, paying for my contributions, and at some point when this moment comes, I'm going to have a decent pension to live and anyway, and the efforts I've been doing all my life. But today, you are legislating, with this draft law, the insecurity of the citizen, individual responsibility, and here too, an individual pigeon. After the anti-government bill, which was voted on by the majority, it abolished collective agreements, unpaid overtime, job break-up, you are now coming to privatise supplementary insurance, which is beginning with the subsidiary, but I fear it will continue - because it is within your political logic - and the main pensions. I would like to stress that supplementary insurance is public social security. Despite the public nature of both the main and the subsidiary, there is a case-law in the Constitution of the Council of State 2287/2015, which states: ‘State care for compulsory social security is not exhausted in the establishment by the State of the relevant public bodies in the definition of these governing bodies, in the exercise of their activities and the management of their assets and in the adoption of the relevant rules, but also includes care for the protection of their insurance capital, i.e. for their sustainability for the sake of future generations, which is reflected, inter alia, by direct participation in the financing of such entities from the budget’. What are you doing here? You remove solidarity between generations, the basic principle of insurance. You are trying to identify something that has been said for years in public opinion and perception - and you have done so, Minister, and in the morning in the debate on unconstitutionality - subsidiary insurance with occupational funds, which is quite different, because the professional funds are complementary, and this is where we are talking about compulsory public subsidiary insurance. Invite models of Sweden where there are elements of capitalising, but at the same time also arrangements for the current pensioners not to be at risk, and with your legislation there is a great risk that the contributions of young people will not exist because of the abolition of solidarity between generations and go to the individual pigeon. It is a failed privatisation system that serves private interests, provides profits to insurance companies and funds, deliberately concealing the risks to insured persons. Grow the insured's money. Where this system was implemented in both the former Eastern European countries after 1989 and in Latin America from the thirty countries to eighteen after 2000, they returned to the old redistributive system because of the consequences of the capitalisation. However, we must not forget that subsidiary insurance has started since the 1930s. After the war, the insurance funds in 1611/50 financed the industrial development of the country and deposited their reserves to the Bank of Greece at a zero or minimum rate, and then invested in government bonds, we had the wounded PSI of '12, we had the structured bonds and all of them in government at the time of bilateralisation. But does everyone agree with this change in New Democracy? Last year Mr Brutsis said that by 2070 the insurance system was guaranteed, it is - if you want - sustainable. The same was then added in another capacity, as a professor, to the current State Secretary. Today we are taking measures, saying that there is a risk to the funds. Transitional costs are important. You are still putting 0.5% of GDP in the hands of your government last year for low-retirement workers at about 900 million, which will be allocated to this new fund, the EEKA, as you say here too, the tenth pension. Risks exist for budgets, but you say that we will have growth that covers the cost of the transition, but we will have profits for insurance and offshore funds and, of course, for retired workers, a great uncertainty, because a financial crisis can do a lot of things and we must not forget in 2008. In conclusion, Madam President, and thank you for the time being, you are not dictated by these changes, nor are we in memoranda, nor are we the lenders. Fortunately SYRIZA made sure to get out of the memoirs in 2018. But that is because your neoliberal ideal demands it, your anxiety about the abolition of the social state, your disobedience as a government, your subjection to private interests, despite the needs of society. But unfortunately that is what you are the Government of New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis' government. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u123	Thank you too, my colleague. Let me remind you that the number of Members registered is too great. Please, when you ask me for a minute to keep it and not more so that we do not always have a conflict. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with today's draft law, rather than leading subsidiary insurance to a safe way out of the chronic problems it is facing, you are leading it to the full deadlock. Because we really wonder how it is possible to think that Greece needs to set up new subsidiary insurance funds and, in particular, a new fund which will, in essence, put the insured in a hostage state. For the new subsidiary insurance, the Capital Insurance Fund is set up. It is supposed that in order to achieve the objective of social protection, each state must take measures on the social security of its members. You, with these recommendations, create greater insecurity for the insured. What we are seeing again and again is the provision of excessive legislative powers to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. You are taking it one step further, of course, with the provision of superpowers and the board of the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund. For example, you are authorising the Governing Council to establish branches anywhere in the territory by decision. Clearly, of course, our opposition to the compulsory inclusion of those insured in subsidiary insurance is also clear. Alpine impression is, of course, the fact that you are not even telling us how much the state budget will be charged by the establishment of the new fund. You are moving towards a system of individual gaming of employee contributions, a system in which workers themselves are called upon on their own responsibility to risk. You must have confused the insurance system with the Stock Exchange. It doesn't explain any other way. Instead of going ahead with correcting the great pathogens of the past, you choose to leave it in its fate and create the new and innovative as you claim. Obviously you're out of the reality of the delays and problems that e-Ephka is facing. Nowhere do you mention the remuneration of both the management bodies of the fund and the staff that will be responsible for it, while the level of insurance contributions will be determined annually and not by objective and merital procedures, but by a decision of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. What to say about the members of the Board of Directors of the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund who are to be known as persons of known standing, high-scientific training and have significant experience, sufficient time and expertise to exercise sound and prudent management in accordance with the objectives of the Fund, and which will be pre-selected by an independent selection board following a decision of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs by way of derogation from any general or special provision. At a second reading, that is to say, the government will choose who it wants. Or does it fit more into this device? The members of the Management Board of the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, TECA shall be liable only to criminal and civil liability vis-à-vis the TECA for an opinion they have made or for acts or omissions thereof in the course of the performance of their duties or on the occasion of them if they acted by deceit or through serious negligence or in order to confer on themselves or on a third party illegal property or to harm the State, but do not have civil liability in respect of private persons for acts relating to the performance of their duties. After everything that the Greek citizens have been through, after successive crises, first the economic, after health, you are bringing such provisions to the vote. The Board of Directors. decide on the main features of the planned investment programme, on the new investment programmes, on the fund's investment policy guidelines. And all that with the Greek citizens' money, with their savings. It may also entrust key management functions of the fund to third natural or legal persons. Repeat, key functions. Who will these faces be? What will be their selection criteria? As for the board's CEO. He will be chosen by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to determine the criteria, qualifications and individual elements of his appointment. You have completely removed the word transparency from your vocabulary. You also recommend the investment committee. It is another committee to deal with those who have not already been settled. The management of the Greek taxpayer's money will not only be in the hands of third parties, namely this new fund, but at the same time it will also enable external investment managers, with whom it will be able to conclude management contracts, to manage the funds of the insured. In other words, you are clearly putting the interests of the insured at risk. Great obstacle, thorn we would say, for the economic development and prosperity of the country is the subnatality, as we have often stressed in the Greek Solution. The demographic collapse of the Greek population resulting in the ageing of the population and the reduction of our workforce have led to the present deadlock, because the growing decline in the real economic working population will have devastating effects for our country. In total, the insurance system in our country is one of its most sensitive mechanisms. Finally, we say this once again: ensure opportunities and serious incentives for those of Greece who left the country to be able to work during the economic crisis. We in the Greek Solution believe deeply in the prospects of Greek primary production and domestic production of wealth. It is the backbone of the Greek economy. Our comprehensive and serious proposals on the insurance system are at your disposal. Solid bases are needed to achieve sustainable development. Our country is required to rely on its own powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mrs Bakadima has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today the debate on the draft law proposed by the Ministry of Labour on insurance reform for the new generation began. Of course, this is a legislative initiative that comes to build on the anti-government structure of the Ministry of Unemployment and not of Labour, as the former Ministry of Labour has changed under Mr Hatzidakis, who is of course a perpetrator of the work of his predecessor, Mr Brutsis. Without any doubt, the move to table this bill and the start of this debate a few days before the House closed down was, in particular, aimed at avoiding any reaction on the part of the workers. But it is a move that demonstrates in the most obvious way and as emphatically as possible the panic of the government of "Metsotakis S.A.". But, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, whatever kind of trick you make, you are divorced from society and citizens, you have legislated and legislated only on the basis of the interests of the domestic and not just of oligarchy. You have, with knowledge of what you are doing, put our highly indebted fellow citizens in the teeth of the predatory funds. You left out of higher education over forty thousand students taking them to the private IEK door, and today you are comfying how you improve youth insurance. The introduction of the individual pigeon is one of the main examples. A provision that comes to undo the collective and social nature of supplementary pensions, as it now turns it into an individual case, putting an end to all kinds of human protection when it ages. The pension is made by investing with insured persons to lose all support if the return on this investment is reduced. In view of the increasing youth unemployment, such a provision can only solve problems and help young people. The exact opposite. But we are all sure of that in the general attempt to depreciate our young people. A youth you want, ladies and gentlemen of the governing party, out of training, off-the-job security. A youth you're pushing to college when you're telling them in the face that it's not possible for everyone to study and that they're not all equal. A young person who is forced to work with black work and undeclaredly and who is also subject to the new provision of the individual pigeon. A pigeon that's certain to be empty. But you do not have the courage to admit that this is what you are doing. Look at the young people in the eyes, Minister, and tell them that as new insured persons they will not have control over their pensions through the individual pigeon, as no one guarantees them that at the end of their working life they will receive the supplementary pension which at the time corresponds to the contributions paid. Just the opposite. The risk of losing part or even all of the amount is great since the pension - investment as you turn it - is based on a specific type of stock gambling. Of course, we must neither forget nor overlook the fact that the leadership of the Ministry of Unemployment can continue zealously to show the desire to legislate in favour of the interests of the few and against the interests of the many, and Mr Hatzidakis is struggling to defend the title of the most appropriate 'Ministry of Unemployment', but both the previous bills you have brought, and this is not only a continuation of anti-corruption laws that you are voting on but also a continuation of the relevant memorandum. For example, the conversion of social security into an individual case. An indicative sample is the individual pigeon that will be adopted today by your own bill - probably tomorrow when its vote is completed - and based on laws of course on previous Memorandum governments. It was the well-known Katorugalou law, the law of the SYRIZA government, the one that laid the framework for creating a new radically different landscape in insurance, by limiting the participation of state and employers, a key step that opened a new profit field for private insurance companies. Of course, whatever initiative has been and, unfortunately, it continues to be, at the expense of workers who remain volatile pawns in the hands of the employer and the oligarchy, while at the same time seeing their rights, the rights acquired in blood and the fight against rights, to be dismantled. The law, therefore, was not only retained by the current government, but was further strengthened by new provisions and legislation that were put in place for the same purpose and aimed at covering any loopholes. The only thing is that young people, but also all the citizens, will continue to react to your anti-government bills, a reaction that will culminate and have the abolition, through a struggle, of the anti-population practices you are legislating and implementing. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, have been divorced from society. But the time comes when society will revolve and overthrow your plans, projects that lead us to the embrace of the fifth memorandum, the more poverty, the desertification and the maintenance of the debt-sharing regime. The time is near when the Greek society will tell you: “That’s enough. How much more we will tolerate legislating against us." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, my colleague. And before we move to the second cycle of speakers, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Hatzidakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you all to consider whether I am wrong about what I am about to say. What is the concept of young people for insurance today? You go to a twenty-six, twenty-five, thirty and tell him about the insurance, in most cases he tells you "it's none of my business, I'll never retire". And this perception has been exacerbating, for years, demographic trends. Today's insurance, as built many decades back, was supposed to support a retired person. Nowadays, in the distribution system of one and a half employees, it supports a pensioner and this is unfortunately going down. No one can, I think, be indifferent to this. And that is why our government, as a military opposition, has already spoken since the International Report of 2018 about the introduction of the system that we are introducing here today. We had made clean accounts with the citizens, it had reacted since the opposition. The Greek citizens had heard them and not them. They have chosen our programme and it is what we are implementing. What are the main changes made with this bill here? I say this more about the Greek women and the Greeks who listen to us, because they listen to capitalist, distributive, that, the other, to be informed, if anything, of what we are talking about. With this draft law, which we have called insurance reform for the new generation, we are introducing a new system for supplementary pensions for new entrants from 1 January 2022 compulsory and voluntary for young people under thirty-five years, for those who will choose to enter this scheme. What's that system? There will be an individual pigeon for every young man who enters this system, instead of a corpse where today's insurers pay for today's pensioners. That's the distribution system. Of course, I know that many and many of those who see us right now think that there is already a capitalist system in Greece, but there is not. There is the distribution system where for many decades each insured person has paid and the pensioners concerned. The current pensioners before retirement also paid for the then pensioners. So this changes from now on and we import the individual pigeon. Instead of a big bucket, that is, anyone who is insured to make contributions to any pensioner today, each one from now on will have an individual account that can monitor him from his cell phone, see his evolution, as everyone sees his bank account and can choose his own investment profile. There are three different investment profiles, one more conservative, one more balanced and one more aggressive. Depending on the evolution of things and their account, every five years its investment profile may also be changed in consultation with the EKRD, the new public fund that is set up, which will be responsible for managing youth supplementary pensions and investment. This is the system that is currently introduced by this bill and for which the House is called upon to agree or not. What we are doing - I say from the outset - is not our patent - I will then speak in more detail - is a system which in recent decades has been increasingly introduced into many advanced countries of the world, including many European countries. Surely not the Scandinavian countries. And I say it, for opposition in particular, as the Scandinavian countries also have a tradition in social democracy. What are the advantages of the new system? First of all, the insured, the new man, will have control over his pension. It will not be him and a big bucket that will give for others, but it will be him and its individual account, which can even affect through its investment profile. So he'll make decisions about his pension rather than I decide for him without him. I thank the opposition, of course, for its confidence in the management of the insurance and investment of young people, but I think we should give them a priority to make decisions on their pensions as well as on hundreds of other things in their lives. First of all, then, an advantage: Retirement check. Secondly, the fight against tax evasion, which concerns us and should concern us as a state and as a Parliament of the Greeks. Because until now, because everyone does not care about his pension, he believes that he will not take it, he agrees under the table with the employer, so we have black under a stated job and insurance contributions are not declared, and we have the well-known phenomena we condemn, but at some point we have to deal with them. When the other has an individual account, he will obviously also care about his insurance contributions. And the third - and perhaps more important - advantage is that international experience shows that these funds, behind the TEC, which is being created, have better returns and therefore also lead to higher pensions. I have examples, I will speak and then, which show that we can lead to larger youth supplementary pensions than if we were holding the current system, more than 43% to 68%. As if these advantages were not negligible: control over pensions, the fight against tax evasion and, above all, greater pensions. That is why I think this bill is a very important reform. They deserve congratulations to the group who worked for the preparation of this bill, led by the Deputy Minister, Professor Panos Tsakloglou, the Secretary-General, Mr Karasiotou, and his entire group have brought a modern European bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following the debate before the bill was presented, especially since June when this bill was presented. We are in front of a wave of myths. And you sometimes have the impression, knowing the provisions of the bill that we are talking about either another country or another bill. I would point out: 'The bill will not be filed', 'It will go to the bells'. I say this because there have also been headlines on this, as well as the announcements from the Staff Regulations. It was poured ink on this thing, and I wonder why. What kind of opposition was that? What vain opposition, when it was known that the bill was going to come. It's indicative of days or perhaps summer influence. Secondly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. Again headlines! We went on television with Mr Tsakloglu to disprove the media footage of SYRIZA, which was said to be contrary to Brussels. The bill was tabled and as long as you have seen opposition from Brussels, we have also seen it. The first two myths were naturally abandoned. But I can't stand it because we lost several days to deal with these myths, and that's why I mentioned them. Third myth that is repeated today: The model that introduces this bill - in myth - is abandoned in various countries and we are a government, which, without being in line with international reality, insists on our own theories. Watch out now, I got two paintings here. These tables are from the OECD. We have presented them, but I want to show them again because they are not all involved in the details of the matter. Here, the first table on international experience refers to the percentage of workers covered by capitalisation - like this, that is - pension schemes. So here, is the percentage of workers covered by capitalised pension schemes in Sweden - how much do you say? - 100 percent! Because I have heard a number of previous reports and today you are still questioning them. Not 99.9%, but 100%. In Finland there is more than 90% of this programme, and the rest of it is from a voluntary programme. And there we go to 100%. Then we go to various other countries. For example, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Denmark, Israel, Australia, Switzerland, Norway. And we are reaching a country in which I am referring, and that is why I am standing in it, which is the United Kingdom, Great Britain. You haven't even seen what happens in the United Kingdom. We saw, you didn't see. In the United Kingdom, therefore, about 50% of the workers are covered by such programmes, and even compulsory. Bring your evidence - if you have - showing otherwise. I'm continuing with international experience. Capital funds assets as a percentage of GDP. Capital funds as a percentage of GDP. We are making a comparison 2009-2019. In Denmark, for example, it was around 160% of GDP in 2009. It has now gone to 220% of GDP. In the Netherlands it was around 100% of GDP and has gone around 190% of GDP. And he goes by saying. This is the table with these retarded countries that I mention, such as Finland, the Netherlands, Sweden and we arrive here at the end of the table. It is a country, which is Greece and which has almost nothing. That is what we want to change, to get to these advanced countries ahead and you progressives defend and want to keep this thing. Be like a fly in the milk, the last hole in the pigeon. This is your vision. And because you said that the privatised capitalisation systems were abandoned, I also explained to you that we do not have any privatisation here - and I proved it - we have a public fund. The countries to which you have referred are countries that have indeed made various privatisations, but with a completely different model that has nothing to do with this here. They were African or Eastern European countries. We are not talking about these countries. Our model and vision are to move forward like Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark. That is why you are critical, and if you have seen problems in these countries make them known. Let's go to another myth: "Young people will be destroyed by the bill." So let's see how they're going to be destroyed. Again we see international experience, to see what happens where this system applies. We have the OECD countries here. We have the Netherlands with 6% yields, Israel with about 6% yields, Canada with 5.7% etc. And we're going down. In our system average yields are 1.3%. I think it's worth thinking about that. Likewise, it is worth thinking about what is happening in Sweden, within Sweden itself, where we have, on the one hand, the idea of capitalisation - which we have today - and, on the other hand, the capitalisation system that we are introducing for the first time. In Sweden, then, return on capitalisation is 1.7%, while in purely capitalisation it is 4.2%. The actual cumulative yield from 1995 to 2019 in the notorious capitalisation was 52, while in our system in Sweden it was 180. I don't know. Is 52 bigger in your arithmetic than 180? Is that more than 1.2%? Do we want to remain with these low-performances and poor pensions? The only reason I see you want it is for young people to react and turn through our inertia to you. We won't do you this favor. Because yes, we have a look at the new generation, and this bill is indeed a reform for the new generation. Do you want to go to further details? Happy to go for Greeks and Greeks to know. We have average real annual returns here. The existing subsidiary, I said before 1.3%, is 1.4%. On the average of the OECD countries, yields are 3% and the average of OECD countries with yields above the median is 4.5%. Do you want to go to an example of real things so we don't talk about percentages? We are taking an insured person who takes EUR 14 000 a year, that is, a month of EUR 1,000 and something and has forty years of insurance. With the existing subsidiary of this worker today if we keep the system and do not change it, as you say, it will take EUR 235. On the average of the OECD countries this 235 is 337 and on the average of the OECD countries with yields above the median is 479. What do we want? We say 337 or 479 for young people. You, why on earth are you insisting on 235? Is that the progress you're expressing? What kind of opposition are you doing? And what kind of reading do you do before the bills come to Parliament? Because here we are not talking about an Opposition that is elsewhere. We are talking about an Opposition that, through its actions, you are turning against young people with the policy it expresses. I'm going further. It has already been said, and I repeat it, I cannot bear to say it. Professional funds were introduced by the Reppa Act, the PASOK at the time. Then they remained with New Democracy and SYRIZA. There are today various businesses, workers to set up new professional funds. What are business funds? It is funds where we have the capitalisation system here that we are going to introduce with Mr Tsakloglu. You want it in the professional funds, it's fine for all of you, but it's bothering you here because Mitsotakis, Hatzidakis and Tsakloglou and New Democracy bring it in. What are these things? Another myth. They're supposedly losing the current members. Where do they lose? There is an explicit provision within the bill that says there is a guarantee for the entire transition period for the current insured persons that they will receive at least the pensions they would receive with the current system. Where's that? In your imagination, obviously. Another myth, the dominant myth. Goal is this system for young people. Yes, sir. What gambling? There is a regulation again which says that even it is wrong to take things to the markets and investment over time until the new pensioner gets back to the state's guarantee, there is an explicit provision in it, its contributions - be careful - plus inflation. What kind of gambling is that? Let's go testify the patent at the International Jurisdiction Office for gambling this prototype you get your contributions plus inflation. And I also close with myths, endless are but at some point I have to draw a conclusion. Financial void, there is a problem, everyone throws away what they want, billions from here in a depth of fifty years, of course, billions from there. There are three different studies submitted by DPRK, IOBE and the National Analogue Authority. Where do these studies end up? They conclude that on the one hand we have a deficit of 56 billion, but at the same time a profit of 50 billion. Make the voyage. What's the matter? An in-depth deficit of 6 billion. Make the division. Divide the 6 billion to fifty years. What's going on? A deficit in the year 120 million euros. Yes, well, we in the Government of Mr Mitsotakis in a budget that gives 15 billion a year for pensions we also give an additional EUR 120 million for our young people to receive higher pensions. Say no to that. You'll say. I know, because you are just making an opposition with empathy, and that is also reflected in this bill, but your young people are watching and judging us. They see who opens up to the new generation and who proposes his ideas. So I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what is your standard? What do you suggest? To keep the present system, a system which is doomed to the consciousness of young people? Your vision is to have many funds of the Ionian and People's Bank with the well-known problems that have been created? Your vision is to have a lot of LAPD that's still an open wound? Is that the model of Officership and the rest of the parties? This is what you inspire from the worst practices of the old PASOK and the old New Democracy? Is that what inspires you? You don't want to, but I want you to place on it, get our young people higher pensions? Is it not worth giving - and I say again - a budget annually of 15 billion 120 million for young people? You put your doctrines above the young people whom you claim to have in your mind and in your heart. I partyly would like to urge you to continue in this way. You're our sponsors. We owe you a great deal of thanks to the opposition that is particularly involved in this bill. I would therefore be happy to speak to all of you in the same way, because you are particularly exposed to the eyes of young people. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the other parties, young people want new things. They want to see the reality otherwise and want to move on to a modern European path. They don't inspire bankrupt systems like what you support. We, therefore, do apply practices that have been achieved in other countries. We give you your doctrines and we hold our future firm toward young people. You'll excuse me to close with a hysterical simply because you've talked a lot of people about the remodelling. First of all, you spoke with a political courage as if you were 10, 15 points in front of polls, like people listening to SYRIZA and saying, Where is it, where did we lose them? To come tomorrow morning to rule with modesty and with the effectiveness they have and especially with the momentum towards the truth. You have also even spoken today about consensus. But, as soon as the government and the Prime Minister moved in the direction spoken by the Chief of Officer's Representation from this Step a few days ago and suggested to a man who had him in your government to take responsibility for civil protection, you rebelled and reacted in a bilier way. You didn't like your own man either. How do you mean consent? In any case, the conclusion is certain. You have allowed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to transform yourself, to transform your party from a party to a political theatrical performance. That's what you are. And that's how Greek citizens treat you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too, Minister. He now has a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Madam President. I saw a concern at the Minister's intervention in relation to the kind of opposition that makes SYRIZA. Three, four times you said to us: 'What kind of opposition are you doing?' You better worry about the results of your policy, because you know it shows a little modesty and great arrogantness if you think you can rule a place with polls, with communication and with the golls. The results of politics are governed by a world. These create consciousness and these are what you tried to cover in the recent remodeling where it has already taken the title of "reforming fiasco, parody". It is a remodeling that, on critical issues last year, was the assumption of a frenzy failure. First of all, we have a year and a half before, like all humanity, an unprecedented situation, a deep health crisis with uncertainties and a year and a half after you haven't even put a stone in the public health system. Besides everything else, I'm not talking about failure to vaccination, your ability to convince and not separate. Because when here in the summer, at the end of the previous season, we said that there are certain geographical areas with reduced rates of vaccination, there are certain social groups, this does not want stupidly well-paid spots on TV where they indicate that "A, I will not take a vacation". He wants scientific documentation, wants people in the field to go face to face with people and tell them why it's a matter of life, it's a matter of health, it's a matter of collective freedom. You did not do that because you are committed to communication and that is what you are selling all the time! This is what you tried to do with the reshape that, however, was not able to hide your major fire-management deficits, the biggest ecological crisis in a year, disaster. And you come and talk about consensus when last week the Prime Minister was a preacher of the division, the preacher of political trembling. The phrase that'instead of coffins, we measure burnt acres' does not show consensus! And good consensus not to show it to other political forces. The arrogance that characterizes you, which is now overflowing, does not go with such intelligent policies. But shouldn't you have come to your conclusion from the climate crisis? Shouldn't you have seen that the timeless weaknesses of this state in the issues of forest protection must finally be answered and cannot be answered by building a very nice building on Kifissia Avenue, which reads "Political Protection"? They don't respond in this way, but he wanted the five thousand in the forest protection you abolished, which was a specific program by SYRIZA. He wanted to adopt the Gondamer report, which was just an attempt to collectively assess the long-term weaknesses of that state and put it aside. What consensus, then, is there on what policy? On the contrary, you have attempted an old-fashioned way to get into a logical transcript and sell it for consent. You have been screwed, as have the issues of civil protection. What did you do all last year? You put a minister in charge who primarily targeted youth. Even during the pandemic period everyone remembers the innumerable attacks of police forces, the humiliation of young people who were simply looking for some air in the squares. To understand that you need to collect it after a while to fix it, but the damage was done. So this was your effort through the recent reshaping. But you know what? And just because you went to establish a Ministry for Civil Protection and went to it - take note of civil protection - the issues of climate change, it seems that you have not realised exactly what an organised state should do on the issue of climate change. Because climate change is not responding with an effort to address them, but above all to hit its causes, to intervene in the same consumer model, the productive model, to change lifestyle, to be able to live with less energy. Now, of course, when I talk to you about energy, I imagine it will have become a nightmare, like the amount of PPC's accounts must be a nightmare, and that has your signature. Of course you did not worry that you would be reconstructed, because you are a man who - as we have heard before - is a special purpose. You take special missions, so they put you here. You've shown it in previous cases too. So they put you in order to promote an outdated antisocial logic which has nothing to do with social security, but with social insecurity. This is a bill of social insecurity that you have brought. The arrest is simple, but also gambling at the same time. We are therefore collecting contributions from workers concerned with supplementary insurance and instead of commenting somewhere, rather than covering current and future generations, rather than doing their part exactly where it is the creation of a sense of security for pension years, at the time of retirement, you say: We do not put them on the financial market? And through this leverage, there will be growth, there will be taxes and, bro, we will cover it. And the very reality comes that between 1970 and 2007 collapsed a hundred and twenty-four companies in the financial sector. So what certainty can you have? You say to us: but look at it, people will take it, and we will also take account of inflation and the rate of inflation to cover this public sector, namely 70 billion of costs of transition and support for the new system. Are you telling a country with responsibility - and is the SYRIZA government particularly credited to it - to break the vicious circle of memoranda? In a country that was afflicted by a deep public debt crisis? And you tell us that another Memorandum can come about, because you are so dogmatically committed to a concept that you think will be given answers to all these issues that have to do with either the insurance system or growth through the financial sector alone. Can you deal with the demographic issue by playing barbecue with employee contributions? You smile while it's not to smile. It's for you to think more about how things have been. Because the demographic issue - and you know it very well - requires other policies that do not exist only in Greece, they exist throughout Europe. He wants better working conditions, wants new jobs, wants to be attractive, wants to be related to the immigration issue and not to have a Minister of Health, Mr. Plearis, who has said to all tons that immigrants should not be given any care or medical treatment. He's made that up. I do not know if you noticed, Minister, a few hours ago the Israeli Council of Greece asked the new Minister of Health to take back his statements, extremities, racist statements, intolerances that he has made on issues related to the Holocaust. So if there is something that characterizes the remodeling, it's old-style tricks, a confession of failure on critical fronts of the previous period, but also a more extreme right-wing print in your Government that is not a print of a simple tattoo they do. It is now a key component of the nature of your party, of the New Democracy, of the government you think you can coexist, Mr Tsakloglu, with people who are deeply racist, Mr Pierracakis, who are not here. I am referring to a number of others that are supposed to come from the modernistic centre-left space. Ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken about youth and that it is a bill for the new generation, the new generation that has seen for eighteen thousand of the candidates this year, again for reasons of extreme neoliberals, building up walls and being channelled into another tank, the tank of candidate clients for private colleges. That's what you reserved for in the new generation just recently. The new generation saw that instead of facilitating stable jobs, it saw your bill, which established the unpaid eight hours, based on the logic of individual responsibility: individual responsibility vis-à-vis the coronary, an individual contract against a collective contract, individual responsibility if you find a job. But is all this possible to support social cohesion or lead to a jungle society? This is, of course, becoming more widely known. That is why you should be concerned, Mr Hatzidakis, and have a less persuasive effect than that which has characterised you at the closure of your speech. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Here we have a overthrow of the characteristics of the insurance system, features which have been unprinted for years. There have been changes that were not all in the right direction, but these have happened from forces that have gone to conjure precisely the social character of the system. And I would like to ask a question and to finish. Why should we believe you, Mr Hatzidakis, now that you tell us that young people will eat gold spoons after years and not believe Mr Brutsi, the Parliamentary Representative - I do not see him here in the Chamber, although he has been - who said that by 2070, as everyone has assured him and swear to the European Union, the supplementary insurance system was sustainable? Are you ever telling the truth? So why is that convincing? Are you kidding us? You have to decide. Either you're making a mistake, or you're lying, or Mr. Brutsi a few months ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u131	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u132	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u133	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak for a minute on a specific point, because Mrs Kafantari has already referred to and Mr Skourletis has now referred to it. For all the rest, Mr Tsakloglu and Mr Bukokoros, our parliamentary representative will be placed. I would like to refer to the subject of PPC and electricity, because it is attempting to create false impressions on the Internet over the last few days and here too. Rescue PPC was a difficult project that took place and succeeded and even exceeded our expectations, which is also seen by the price of PPC's share in the stock exchange, which was multiplied. Two years later, it has emerged in Europe, but also internationally, with regard to electricity prices relating to gas prices, which is used to produce electricity, and also with regard to the carbon dioxide exchange, that is, what electricity companies pay for carbon dioxide emissions in the production of electricity. This is not a Greek issue, nor is it linked to one way or another with PPC and its rescue. It is a European, international issue, which I am sure the relevant Ministry of Environment and Energy is closely following it. I am also sure that there will be the corresponding positions and moves. But, please, don't confuse different things, don't twist reality again. I know you're football champions, but everything has a limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. Now Mrs Brysidou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the quality of life of the citizens of a country depends on the daily care provided by self-government, on the provision of services and works provided by each Ministry of Government, but above all on the quality of his life of finding work, that is to say, having every citizen a job, on a high level pay, on pension security and pensions to be decent for a proper living. A government, therefore, which is interested in the citizens, must emphasise and give particular attention to these areas. The Government of New Democracy and the Ministry of Labour with the Minister, Mr Brutsi, and today with Mr Hatzidakis, has shown in practice that he is interested in these areas, ensuring and voting in laws that are in this direction. It ensures higher wages. For example, I would like to mention the possibility of a young worker who is a private employee, but who wants to complete his income with a service document. He is now given the opportunity to pay only one contribution. And this example shows that his incomes are increasing and there was substantial care. There have also been other subsectors that have been passed by laws which have led to an increase in wages, a guarantee of pensions and a reduction in pensions. One thing that has also been said is that the insurance system has been in a dead end in recent years. There have been too many problems and the SYRIZA's policy has proved it in practice in the previous period. If everything was safe and in the right direction, would the Katrugalou law not be passed, where on many individual issues intervention was made in order to balance up some things, but in what way? By reducing almost all pensions. The New Democracy comes and understands that there are issues. But he's trying to fix it with another logic. It makes an effort, finds solutions, innovative schemes to ensure that pensions are safe, but not at the expense of the pensioner and the worker, without increasing reservations, but without reducing pensions. And how can this be done? The way today's bill introduces one of these pieces that are supplementary pensions. Additional pensions help and enhance pensions. But how can they be safe and as large as possible? In the present situation, is it that each employee pays to pay the pensioners and not to know forty or forty years the amount of his supplementary pension? You'll tell me that if there was a government, not so responsible, they wouldn't be dealing with something that will be evaluated 30 years later. The New Democracy, however, does not look at the present day or how it will handle the things "hacking ears" but is interested in the real interest of the citizens and especially of the new generation. That is why it introduces this bill, which enables young workers in early 2022 to pay 6.5% reservations on supplementary pensions and then after the second half of the year 6% and all who are up to thirty-five years old, if they too want to participate in this system, which is really important in the way they are organised, because they are personal, monitoring and having a programme option. Whether to choose the conservative programme either the balanced or the aggressive one, that is to say, to invest its money, with the guarantee of the public not to lose it, but on the other hand to be able to retire to receive the best possible supplementary pension. How is that possible? It is done with the fund that is set up, which is a legal person governed by public law, which will manage this whole situation, but also with the guarantee of the public. I think we're following developments. We are a modern European state and, as this programme has achieved in many countries of Europe, it is proven that it will succeed in us, as long as we are able to work together and, of course, the new generation, even those for whom it is not compulsory. So there will be this guarantee which has also been costed, and it seems to be at 120 million a year. I don't know if the number sounds great, but we have to compare it to the 15 billion that we give every year to complete pensions. We must also take into account the money that will gain from investment action, which will fall on the market, bring growth, job growth, more revenue and more security to our funds. The new generation wants ideas from us, it wants boldness, it wants effort, it wants labour and it wants results. The current government and this bill show that it is in this direction. It is working hard to get a result, not necessarily tomorrow, but possibly, like insurance, in ten, in twenty or thirty years. I think it is in the right direction and I think that all the Members of Parliament united should do what the new generation needs, support it, so that we can see a result. Otherwise, being in an existing situation, in a stagnation that leads nowhere, all it does is disappoint the new generation and lead it abroad to find work and ensure pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u137	Me too, my colleague. Now Mrs Malama has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Government and the Ministry of Labour present in the House, despite the generalised saliva, despite the indignation about the failure of the government's work on all fronts, a draft law which delivers the supplementary pensions of pensioners and the insurance contributions of workers in the hands of brokers. You are enlisting all kinds of novels, all kinds of propaganda to hide from the Greek people what really writes your legislation. Just say it with simple words to make the whole world understand. You build a fund, you pass all the funds of supplementary pensions and five brokers are assigned to play this gambling money. Just stuff. Let's just talk about it and understand it. Someone's gonna say these are overreacting. So let's go. Article 3. It is stated that this fund uses ancillary pensions to proceed with investments in the sense of placement of funds in financial products and property. That is, it will place the fund's money on retired and insured shares, on derivatives, on financial packages and on real estate portfolios. Does that remind us of something? Does it remind us of the structured bonds perhaps that they threw the insurance funds on the rocks and literally made hundreds of millions of euros? Have we forgotten? New Democracy didn't rule again then? Money played in derivatives and became air. So do you now legislate? Let's go down. But who will decide where the money of the pensioners and the Greek people will be invested? Who, in other words, will be the ones who choose what shares to be bought? It reveals Article 24 and Article 28 of the bill. Five stock exchanges will be decided and no one else will. In particular, as provided for in the provisions of those Articles, the five persons responsible for selecting investments will be those who will form the investment committee referred to in Article 28, which, according to the wording of the draft law, should only qualify as a simple certification of the provision of portfolio management services. In other words, they will be common brokers, like those who participated in the Stock Exchange party, which you will certainly all remember. Where will these people be accounted for? Nowhere! Will it be controlled by anyone? Oh, no! What if they play the world's money and they're gonna lose what happens next? The answer lies in Article 60 of the bill. What's he saying? It says that in this case, if stock exchanges fail, that is, in the choices of their investments, then the state will come to cover the mess. That's what Mr. Hatzidakis said. Good. In other words, we hand over the world's pensions to five casino crucifixes and then load the problem into the state budget. He's not here, Mr. Hatzidakis, to answer me. That is to say, we're loading it in ordinary mortgages, that is to say the taxpayers. We have this paradox here, that the worker pays his insurance contributions, that the broker loses it in the dice and that the same citizen pays it back, as a taxpayer, for the second time. That's a nice design. And the question that arises here is as follows. Will these brokers have some responsibility if this money of pensioners becomes dust? Will it be controlled for infidelity, for breach of duty, for corruption, given that they will be able to bet billions wherever they want and whenever they want? The answer is no, of course. Because the government is building a framework where these people will not actually be controlled by anyone. Do we once again have a repetition of the history of structured bonds when some administrators and executives of subsidiary funds played the money of the insured where they wanted to, illegally and unpaid? So why don't you look at what happened then to figure out what we're in danger today? The government falls upon the citizens' supplementary pensions literally as a vulture, with a glimpse and a glimpse that would envy her even the 'Luxembourg of Wall Street'. The most outrageous in all this is that in order for the government to build this fund run by stock exchanges to degenerate the EBRD from a hundred people. That is to say, it will transfer a hundred employees from the public insurance body, which is then smashed down by shutting down branches, to serve this structure that is completely out of any public control. I repeat to listen to the citizens of Halkidiki and not only that the Ministry of Labour closes the branch of EKA in New Mudania to serve the fund that will play the pension money in the dice, on the Stock Exchange with the hundred employees. To hear this, people to understand how dangerous those who rule us are. Our supplementary pensions are at risk from government stock exchanges. Social security is at risk from the disastrous manipulations of the Ministry of Labour. The FBI services are crumbling from subsecution. The market cannot function as a result of the deterioration faced by the public social security system. You're also appointed stock exchanges and investments of this kind. We are hitting the alarm, and we call on the citizens to be immediately informed of these plans. Because it is very likely that we will soon be called upon to deal with very bad situations in our country's insurance system, if you apply this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Lippe has the floor now from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill which puts the supplementary insurance of the new generations on a new footing. A new fund, the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, is set up, which has the legal form of the legal person governed by public law. It is therefore clearly a question of a purely public fund without question. Where is the big change? For the first time private sector practices are introduced in its operation. The well-known distribution system is abandoned, which does not meet well under current social and economic conditions. The current proportion of retired workers is 1.7 to 1 with the situation getting worse and not improving. Thus, based on data from the National Accounting Authority in 2050, the average supplementary pension will be reduced from 16% to less than 10% of the average salary with the current system. The new ancillary insurance system is based on the capitalisation system of predefined contributions. It concerns all those who enter subsidiary insurance from 1-1-2022 and optional for those who are up to thirty-five years after they choose it. Every insured person has an individual account to which he will always have access - by electronic means - all the information concerning him, such as contributions paid or due, and the return on his investment. The insured person may, every three years, select an investment programme that he wishes or even a combination of programmes. The amount of the contributions remains until 2022 at 6.5% and then decreases to 6%. The new system offers many extra benefits as opposed to what is currently in place. If a person has not completed 15 years of insurance and wishes to do so, he will receive the actual value of his contributions back. Accordingly, there is care in the event of a death pension, even if no 15-year-old contributions had been paid, where the difference is covered by the State budget and the heir receives an supplementary pension. This is a thorough and costly system based on three studies to predict all its effects. Firstly, the proportionality, secondly, the macroeconomic and third, the sustainability of the public debt. I would particularly like to focus on the macroeconomic consequences of the new system, because they are those relating to the overall economy over time. There is a need, given the need to increase investment effort and build a saving culture. The new subsidiary security offers an additional opportunity for growth in the economy by creating savings and investing resources in the Greek economy. These elements, of course, will lead to an increase in GDP, a greater productivity and an increase in employment. The administration of the new fund shall be managed by persons of known prestige and high scientific training, with a five-year term in order not to depend on the life of the government concerned. The fund operates an investment committee with advisory powers in relation to the investment options of the EBA. It is important that the principle of prudent management and economic development is applied, while investments are made in the interests of those insured in the reminder that there should be no overreliance on a given product or undertaking. Once again, the opposition's counterpart is not based on figures and real facts. In the opposition's first argument, the answer is, no, today's bill does not affect the solidarity of generations, instead strengthens it. The current subsidiary insurance system has led young insured persons to feel that they are raising a disproportionately large burden, without being accounted for, for the payment of current pensions. In particular, young workers often devalue the value of paying their insurance contributions, often turning to black work. Secondly, it does not affect both the current and the future pensioners, since this is a system that offers security, stability and flexibility without affecting today's pensioners and workers, more than thirty-five years old. The supplementary insurance money is not the subject of a gamble, as we have heard from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. The practice of investing in insurance contributions is already followed by Scandinavian countries with excellent results, and in any case there is a guarantee from the Greek State that the insured will receive the money, which has been paid in addition to inflation in the worst cases. In fact, based on OECD studies, the new subsidiary insurance system is expected to deliver higher pensions than 43% to 68%. Thirdly, it is not the taxpayers' burden at an unreasonable cost. The budgetary cost of transition to the new regime is estimated, as the Minister has heard, at EUR 120 million per year, and this is therefore a burden that the state budget can afford on an annual basis if we consider the benefits we receive. The Greek economy has benefited significantly over decades from investment in these funds and a significant increase in GDP and employment is expected. The question therefore is the overall positive development of the Greek economy. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs proceeds to a brave reform of subsidiary insurance in Greece by introducing attitudes that were unprecedented about Greek public data. It is a piece of legislation that deals fairly with all the insured, young and older and all pensioners, without any surprises. Unfortunately, in our country, we are used to running to correct the bad texts after having experienced the consequences. Today there is a decisive step forward in order to prevent developments in relation to supplementary insurance for the next generations. The demographic evolution of our country with Europe's second faster ageing population leaves us no room for reassurance. The new supplementary insurance system offers a sustainable solution to the new generations of people insured with higher supplementary pensions, while opening up new prospects in the Greek economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The speech is now given by the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos from the Change Movement and immediately after the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Viliardos. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in the House, when the parties want to speak, in the belief that they are making a major reform, they are from time to time invoking countries such as Sweden, Denmark, Canada, which have very good social policies, another level in terms of social protection. But there is something that is different, which we do not want to see in Greece. And that is the political consensus on major reforms that can be carried out over time. And I always remember the most characteristic reform that tried to take place with the Yannitsi Act, which then brought many major reactions from all parties and ended up, one way or another, to invoke it all the parties after a while and say, 'but why didn't we?' [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] However, this consensus had no faces, it was not for one person to come to this choice that says "we make a consensus in the name of Apostolakis". Look, if we now ask about the government, the first reaction is a remodeling - a mess. Whoever says it, no matter where he says it, they'll tell you it's a mess. The second comment on this is the following. I read today that Mr Apostolakis said to Mr Tsipras: "President, I was framed." Think of him, Minister of National Defence, to speak a couple of weeks with Mr. Mitsotakis, to trap Mr. Mitsotakis and to be Minister of National Defence in a involvement with Turkey, they would have arrived and built the Greek Turks. The third and most important comment is that I think that it is a vindication for us, George, what the Chief of Staff has said and I am not putting the faces at all, I am not interested in the faces. The Chief of Police Vice-Population - which concerns not only his party, but also the other party, and the New Democracy - spoke of apostasy and redemption against positions. And I wonder what is the case with all those who in previous years left their parties for a parliamentary position or for a government position? I want to agree with Mr. Tsipras. And for those who went this way and for those who went that way. So what we were saying, that in the end, gentlemen, the moral advantage - and we appeal to the citizens - is that we who stayed, mocking us for ideas, were left for ideas rather than for chairs. And we stayed because we believe our policy will be justified. And can I tell you something? The worst is in the world, which will punish them sometime, because nothing is forgotten. Those who left PASOK, whether in New Democracy or elsewhere, are neither apostates and I would tell you to forget all this, that they were sold out, bought out, as Mr Tsipras said. They're ungrateful. PASOK made them all the meaning of the word. When someone makes you human, and you sell it, you'll sell it forever. So, George, we're here to tell them that we have the moral advantage, that they'll know we're with our ideas and they can trust us. As far as the reforms are concerned, Mr Mulkiotis made a detailed report and I am pleased that Mr Hatzidakis said about the professional funds that you have all kept, but we have not discussed two things. We are constantly having a debate, but we are not talking about demographics and policies that we need to do so that there can be workers. Who's gonna pay if there's no workers? Who? PASOK has brought this issue to the demographics, we have made committees and committees. The result and policies do not exist in this respect. Another question, which I would like to tell you, Mr Minister, and I would like to tell you, because if we can agree and reach it, because we need a consensus and consensus and who can do it, it is this. Last year there has been a major problem in the labour market in large areas, such as building, focusing and tourism. We don't have any staff to work. There is a problem with wages too, yes, but that's not all. I remember and understand very well what our immigration policy is like for those who take up positions, whether in New Democracy or in SYRIZA. I remember now that SYRIZA had the Minister for Civil Protection, Mrs Papacosta, who said 'roots' to immigrants and we have today - and very well said so to you today, Mr Skourletis, who will remember Mrs Papacosta - the similar ministers of the New Democracy. Besides, what about SYRIZA, who had put the insurance company to solve it? So, basically, you're fighting without any substance. Because the faces are neither on the one hand nor on the other. But all these problems, how do they solve them? And here's an answer. The answer will be given by society. Who can go beyond the procedures, get consensus and understanding to become big areas? Who has proved that he can bear political costs in favour of the country so that these problems can be overcome? A party that comes soon and is PASOK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr Vice President. The parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. In relation to what Mr Hatzidakis said earlier - it is not here, of course, but it will be briefed - we have sincerely asked his arrogance. Of course, we're not disturbed by arrogance, as long as it's based on something. But where do you support her, Minister? Do you realize the damage caused by your government in just two years? deficits of more than 30 billion euros. It took off the public debt at EUR 387 billion at the end of June. New loans of EUR 41 billion. The cost of fires, at least, 30 billion euros and so on. Do you really understand what you've done? "Last hole in the bourgeoisie", as you said about Greece, you became, your governments, now repeating the waste of 2004-2009, which our country led to the IMF. For the young people, who you said they don't expect pensions, you are absolutely right. But why? Because they know you went bankrupt Greece. What can they expect with the public debt of 234% of GDP, with the red private debt of over 150% of GDP, destroying the country's productive tissue and so many other things? From a government that produces only deficits and debts, Minister, what would you expect? Really, my question is honest. With regard to the investment performances mentioned by the Minister, has he heard anything about the bubble, which was created after 2010 and today is at the edge of a really devouring explosion? However, the joke of the day was the guarantee of the bankrupt state. For comparisons with the Nordic countries, just as George Papandreou once did, we should not say anything. Everyone understands how funny they are. And with regard to the restructuring of PPC, was it not the result of a reduction in energy costs, the ending of NOMEs and the low cost of pollutants compared to today? Now that they have increased, will the rehabilitation continue with the rise in electricity prices up to 50%? On the subject now, in the bill, we'll start with a few questions to the Minister. Above all, why did he submit a new insurance bill, when relatively recently, in February 2020, the insurance policy of the then Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsi, was passed? We recall that it was accompanied by two studies, which we have with us. The first was analogous to the pension system, the main and subsidiary insurance, together with the corresponding adequacy of pensions, with a scientifically responsible Mr. Tsakloglu, the current State Secretary. The second study was at the University of Athens, and both assured us that pensions were provided by 2070. Why, then, does it require a change? Is there any financial logic, or is it just an idea of the Minister? Does he want to put his seal, his name, in a government bill? These changes, the adoption of the capitalisation model for ancillary insurance, were not, however, included in the 20-page New Democracy programme. Let us, like all the other ministers, reply that they are simply implementing the policy for which the Greeks voted on them. Of course, this is not the case either, since it abstained from the elections of 42% of the voters, while the fifty seats did not come from votes, but were free of charge because of the enhanced analogy system. The bill itself did not come by concise procedures this summer, having been put for consultation just before it was tabled, from 29 June to 13 July, taking just a hundred and sixteen comments, probably because many articles were not allowed to comment. Really, why? It is, of course, well known that the advancement has been made since 1997, with the Sprau report on Simitis and, at the basic rate, Professor Tinos, which at that time was parallel to the Pinochet system, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Mr Tinos has a continuous artwork on the subject and there is also a study of the 'LSC'. Variations were proposed by “DIANEOSIS”, in 2018, in a study of the “drugs” of the economy, namely insurance, tax and debt that is no longer just a dragon, but a monster, since the current government has raised it with EUR 41 billion more. We must note, here, that the increase in the debt ratio for Greece between 2019 and 2020 was one of the largest in the European Union - as we will testify later in the Minutes - at plus 17.3%, while we also had the highest declines. Enough with the excuse of the pandemic of economic errors, the brutal financial errors of the government. There were also variations in another study to relaunch the Greek economy - I will submit the first page of both in the Minutes, as for what we say - by the Association of Accountants and IOBE, while, of course, BSE also welcomes it. Mr Tsakloglu has dealt with this issue as a member of the 'DIANEOSIS'. In this respect, it promoted the capitalisation system, such as the study on the new growth model for Greece for exiting the crisis on page 117, although in the end the study refers more to budgetary measures, rather than to what we need to do to produce wealth and how. By 2018, however, the specific proposal of the capitalist subsidiary system was - as we mentioned - an insurance Pinochet because it had been implemented in Chile by the well-known dictator, without success, as it appeared. So it seems that, unfortunately, Greece continues to apply failed foreign recipes instead of planning its own self-powered development policy, which leads to a constant deadlock. On the other hand, why is it going now, at a time when Greece needs liquidity, while on the other hand, it is certain that much of these amounts will be directed abroad? Why abroad? Because Greece does not have a mature stock market, nor does it have appropriate investment products for such positions. The Minister, of course, as another Madov, promises performances of 43% to 68%, as stated in the Ministry's report, with its forecasts based on an average of the OECD countries of 4.51% and its yields of 2003 to 2020. Does he not really know how in the United States capital managers are obliged to write when they address the public the phrase 'historic returns are not a guarantee for future results'? He obviously knows it, so he is just trying to mislead the Greeks to promote what he wants, while everyone who has dealt with the subject, with investments, like us, knows very well how empty the promises are. What is your motive, really, Minister, since there is no financial logic in the project, let alone, when the troika was reluctant to accept it on the basis of our information? This is also documented by the fact that there is no reference to the latest assessments of such a reform, but only to the need to repay outstanding pensions. Of course, there are many references to the need to reduce pension costs, including by the IMF and the Pissaridis study of which Mr Tsakloglu was also a member. In the same study on page 107, we always want to be precise, the reinvestment of contributions into the economy through the capital market is mentioned, but that is what we consider to be a wish for a highly indebted country without production, whose economy is almost entirely based on the monoculture of tourism. How will growth be achieved? With imported wind and accurately dependent energy, throwing out the EUR 230 billion of lignite into the trash and over EUR 300 billion of the EEZ gas, which - if you like - is something more green? On the other hand, how can we agree on a bill, whose supportive studies apart from its mathematical acronyms are seen as anti-national political directions? For example, the proportional study predicts a reduction of the population to eight and a half million in 2070. Instead of trying to increase populations with their respective policies, however, the only aim is to harmonise expenditure, that is, to reduce them, that is, pensions. Is that a national policy? At the same time, in the study on the sustainability of the public debt presented by the 'PESH' - and we will be tabling it in the Minutes - it is stated that the debt in terms of GDP will be reduced to 50% to 60% in 2060. But even this unsafely unacceptable prospect conflicts with the European Union's prediction of the tenth assessment of our GDP debts by over 80% in 2060. Is the government addressing fools through "WITH"? Is that why the so-called reform is taking place? To create a financial area for surpluses when the requirements of enhanced monitoring of the memorandum are restored, i.e. from 2023? Continuing, the capitalisation system is generally promoted as a panacea over the distribution system, which is considered problematic due to demographic developments and expensive labour costs, and is treated as an outbreak of mismanagement. However, there is no reference to so many market-related scandals and their allegedly unseen invisible hand. However, apart from the economic part, the distribution system has the logic of the constitutionally fortified redistributive tool of wealth, which seems to be annoying the neoliberals, who, with the memoranda, have prevailed independently of the governments concerned. According to the new supplementary insurance scheme, however, the contributions of the insured, who will be included in the scheme, will not finance existing supplementary pensions, but will be saved and invested by creating a reserve which will finance their own pensions. Therefore, there is a question of funding the supplementary pensions existing and future, to be granted under the old scheme. It is apparent from the proportional study, on page 60, that this extra funding, which should be allocated to cover the gap, is estimated at EUR 48 to 78 billion, while in the base scenario at an interest rate of 3.5% and with a transition of 20% of the existing under thirty-five years to the new, around EUR 56 billion. This amount is also mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report on page 44. This, without including the 20 billion that GSEV characterises as additional cost of transition for the financing of disability pensions, etc. The government, however, estimates that the system's revenues from the so-called growth dividend will, at the same time, reach EUR 50 billion. So the real cost, the cash deficit in the Ministry of Labour will not exceed EUR 6 billion. But can we rely on such assessments, in the studies presented by the Secretary-General, according to which the net cost for the next 50 years will only be EUR 120 million annually due to the growth dividend, that is, investments resulting from the savings and revenues generated? When were the forecasts verified in the twelve years of the memorial tombs that we have already experienced? Never. Not even the IMF ones. As far as the cost is concerned now. The General Accounting Office of the State in its report provides for a charge of 678.7 million by the subsidiary for the period 2022-2025, according to the forecasts of Mr Hatzidakis' Ministry, that is about 170 million per year net. In any case, whatever costs should be covered by the State budget, i.e. through taxation since the EIF's reserves are not sufficient. All of this should, of course, be added to the guarantees stated by the Minister in the event of the loss of funds from the funds paid by the agencies. Therefore, the cost of transition will be multiple and dissuasive, which means that we can lead to a reduction in pensions in a subsequent bankruptcy, etc. In 2008, however, in the United States, when Mr Hatzidakis' respective buttons - in 401(k) as he said - were depleted by the dedication of the stock exchange, many insurers came to despair while they even lost their capital or did not have time to make up for the losses. The solution there has gradually been followed by the monetary policy of Fed, which has well or misled the stock exchange and bubble we are seeing today. But does Greece have this choice? If their insured people lose their money in Greece in a bankruptcy, such as the PSI or a general crisis, such as in 2008, will the state replace it, as Mr Hatzidakis promises? Or will the public's cash interest prevail, as was the case with the pension cuts accepted by the board of directors. President of Mrs Sacellaropoulou? Has this not been the case with the reserves of the insurance funds with the PSI? According to his supporter, Mr. Venizelos, the funds had bonds of around 22 billion and got tired of 14 billion, while the state's annual grant to the funds, for example in 2012, was 17 billion. Has Mr Venizelos ever paid these 14 billion as he promised, saying that the state can at any time make up for the losses of the funds? Has his GDP debt forecast been verified at 120% in 2020? Obviously not, after over 200%. In conclusion, unfortunately, neither international experience nor domestic is taken into account, and a next crime is planned at the expense of our citizens and future generations. Finally, the General Accounting Office of the State provides for additional costs to grant the operation of the TECA, which is initially 17 million, apparently for new appointments that will strengthen the failed or rather party state. In any case, we believe that the current change that has been preparing for years to be implemented when there would be no resistance to society to react, as it is today, will not even bring investment, since there is no development plan, no sound bank and budgetary picture or even an independent monetary policy. Did Mr. Zavvos really get away from the programs "HRAKLES" or did Mr. Stournaras, who insisted on a bad bank?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u145	Finish it, Mr. Villardo. You've exhausted the dentistry, as you requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u146	Sure. Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Viliardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We are, however, prepared to contribute to a debate on growth and the creation of wealth with proposals rather than accounting manipulations. Until such a debate takes place there is no point in bills such as this which we reasonably vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too. Mr Baraliacos from New Democracy has the floor now. And soon after that, Mr. Famelos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the arrangements for this bill, one more look at the future, give a thorough and documented answer to an agonizing question, a reasonable concern of today's young workers. Faced with a periphery of diffuse reflection that has prevailed in recent years among our young people today's bill responds convincingly without spins and vortexes. The answer to the question of whether the sweat of today's work will ensure a decent tomorrow's vindication of these labors is unequivocally and unnecessarily positive. The current, young worker, who has worked for many years with a multitude of skills and academic parchments, will certainly receive a pension in the future, corresponding to the contributions he makes. It will cease to be the underweighing, which finances another generation's pension barrel with the same one experiences a lasting uncertainty about its own future. Today's bill corrects a repeated injustice. It introduces a reformist incision into our insurance system. It forms a sustainable ancillary insurance model, a flexible arrangement that can be adjusted at regular intervals, a system that will account for and be governed by transparency and integrity rules. These changes in the supplementary insurance system allege the mistrust of our country's new human resources for where the money goes, which each month pays for insurance contributions. Having the opportunity to talk personally to young people and young people, who work on a wide range of professional categories either in the private sector, or as free professionals and self-employed, I find the feeling of vanity very intense. Most people feel that every month - just to say - they make money out of the wallet by removing it from their income without expecting any reward. Today this changes definitively. Additional insurance, away from dangerous experiments, turns home and benefits our young people without our current pensioners being at risk. With effect from 1 January 2022 each new worker will finance his own pension. His monthly contributions will be saved in an individual piggyback. The worker will know and have control at all times of his supplementary pension, which will ultimately be higher than the current model. This is evidenced by the international successful implementation of this system, which can lead to an increase in the order of 43% to 68%. This is because today's monthly contributions to supplementary insurance will not be saved simply, but will be reinvested by a multi-speed system, either in a more conservative way or in a much more aggressive manner, depending on the choice of each insured person. And because the Civic Opposition, addicted to misinformation and dispersal of false news, dare not be written with the self-evident solution that will put our insurance system on tracks of irreversible sustainability, once again selects cheap and obsolete slogan. SYRIZA's ladies and gentlemen, subsidiary insurance is not only privatised, but the contributions of young workers are now fully guaranteed up to the last euro and are guaranteed both by the distortions of the current system and by potential shocks of the global economy and its temporary crisis. All the insured persons, which will be subject to the new capitalising subsidiary insurance model, will receive, irrespective of the performance of their returns, the entire amount paid even if the yield has a negative mark. And all this, without the present pensions being at least risk. So stop the terrorist campaign by fishing in blurred waters. This recipe has failed miserably. And one more thing I deserve to point out. The amendment, which has been tabled today, provides for the extension of the reduction in insurance contributions to employers and workers by three percentage points up to 31 December 2022, which means, in practice, that wage costs are reduced from the maintenance of reduced contributions by the end and next year. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy continues its reform work throughout the country's social and economic life at the same time. The new supplementary insurance system opens the door wide opens to the future of young workers, who will now feel safe, confident and optimistic that what they pay today will be returned to them in full, if not increased, in the future. It is a new reform with a long-term perspective that the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis will be applying for the first time in our country, which, with carefully and studied steps, ensures in our new generation, in our afflicted new generation, which has grown in the crisis and insecurity, what is really entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u149	Mr Famelos has the floor now from SYRIZA and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Bukoros, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the debate on the privatisation of supplementary insurance takes place just one day after the remodelling - fiasco by Mr Mitsotakis, but also after the biblical destruction of the fires in August - and we have as a country a long delay in the vaccination programme, defiance of all the government announcements, with new, unfortunately, waves of pandemic and high health and economic costs in our society, with a society that is intense and divisive and has obviously completely unreliable to the Greek Government. We have a dangerous government at a very difficult time in the Greek society and it is a serious problem that we also have an untrustworthy and politically cowardly Prime Minister who tried to get caught by a reshape to save the impressions because he has an absolute responsibility for all the previous ones. Mr. Mitsotakis tried to mislead a former Minister of Government of SYRIZA to create impressions, remarkably, of enlargement. You proved with this move that in the end only SYRIZA and the progressive space have political capital and people who can handle critical times. But the arrogant and arrogant Mr. Mitsotakis did not have the political courage to recognize his mistakes. He came here and told us he did everything perfectly. So why does he want enlargement and the Ministry of Civil Protection? It was not possible to make either self-criticism nor to propose to the political leaders to find solutions to civil protection issues. He only wanted, by tooling Mr. Apostolakis, to make political profits. And it is disgraceful of you, as you are, that what Mr Georgiadis has done today. In order to cover the political mistake and cowardice of Mr.Mitsotakis, Mr.Georgiadis, but also other political officials of the New Democracy, were defeated by the Admiral and Chief of Staff for too many years, who honoured his uniform, unlike many of the New Democracy. When Mr. Mitsotakis came to Parliament about the fires, he told us everything was perfect. In reshaping, however, health and civil protection, and in safety and tourism, heads have fallen. How can society then believe that Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't mislead and doesn't lie? And what is the result of the remodeling? Let the parliamentary representative tell us. We have a New Democracy Parliamentary Group and a LAS Ministerial Council. This is the result of the remodelling. For Mr Hatzidakis remembers well, although he is not here, to tell us why he was deleted from the student association of law, Mr Vorides. Reliable to right-wing policy, New Democracy implements, in both labour and insurance, a plan to reduce rights. That's what this bill does. You have a plan, which is at the expense of the social majority, it affects both work and entrepreneurship and workers and pensioners. Because you want to make Greece a special economic area, with flexible work, low pay and no social state. You have no social prevention policy, nor do you have any real prevention policy. To tell the truth, it was Mr Hatzidakis who, as Minister, stopped the five thousand-dollar forest protection programme, the one who stopped five hundred forest-forestry recruitment, who stopped the forest fire prevention programme with 140 million approved at that time in the public investment programme. And of course his favorite habit is to sell public property. In this respect, it wants to give stock exchange companies and funds the resources of the insurance system. He did the same to the Ministry of the Environment, energy networks, gas network, waste management. Even the water supply you've put in the eye. Generally, the Mitsotakis Government has declared war on the workers and on the whole of society, and so deepens the crisis because it reduces incomes, reduces purchasing power, affects all sectors of the economy and society and creates precariousness and unemployment. And what is the plan now that you have for subsidiary private insurance? You say the citizen will see and choose the mixture he will use for his own insurance. I mean, individual health responsibility towards the pandemic. Individual responsibility for the fires, you send citizens - if you have your god - to insurance companies to insure their homes when you do neither plans for counter-fighting nor plans for fire protection, and you say 'we leave and wash our hands and find your own self-help with insurance', that is to say, a professional group that you are sending the insured now and their own contributions. Individual responsibility for education. Are you sending the children to colleges with zero entrants in the Architecture of Xanthi, with only 25% invaders in the Forestry Schools? And individual responsibility for insurance too. The aim of the Mitsotakis Government is to weaken our society, weaken the state, public policies. Public policies are being abolished and public wealth is being sold. Because it is public wealth that the resources of the insurance funds come out and we are all lost. From the insurance, which you are bringing today, all are lost, and today's and future pensioners, even future workers, who will work in the future. Because there is a precarious level of pensions, because there is a safeguard for the fund reserves, because it affects young people in particular whose contributions are to be gambled, so to speak, and there is no guarantee and the pensions of the current pensioners are called into question as a result of the contributions. And a budgetary question has also been created, since the state must now contribute to playing the games by the groupers of the system that you, the politicians of the New Democracy, are. Because you're a grouper when you're pushing the funds of the insurance funds into the mutual, stock exchange funds. And after a lot of time, we'll be looking to find out why we went bankrupt. You did the same by 2014. That's why our country went bankrupt. Why did you finally insult our country's capital? After all, does the State Secretary himself not make the conservative prediction of the 56 billion costs, which can be up to 80? So produce social insecurity and broaden inequalities for banking and stock exchange lobbys. Therefore, both pensions and transport costs to society. Do you want an example? The cost we are paying today for energy is because you gambled the energy market and the only ones who benefit from this gaming are PPC's Golden Boys. Is it not true that the president now receives in PPC six times the reward he received on SYRIZA? And is PPC's profits cost to society? And today crocodile tears are thrown because Mr. Hatzidakis has freed himself, he says, quickly, the energy market and told us that the market will solve everything. So we tell you quite clearly: on the SYRIZA, in the memorandums, the price of energy has not risen one euro. Indeed, there was a medium-term reduction in the price of electricity. And you've had an increase since the first day of 20%, and now the papers say 50%. Why? Why did you make Greece a champion at the wholesale price of energy? That's what you want to do in insurance. Give it to the market, and then the citizen with individual responsibility is looking to find his point. But where? When the pensions are reduced? When the reserves are lost? When some blue children are hired to some companies - remember the best man and the structured bonds - to make profits for themselves but not for society? This is the New Democracy. The whole society is getting lost and possibly some system buddies either in the lobby of stock exchange companies or the blue children of the IMP are at ease. But it is very costly for society, because we are losing capital in the country. You sell the natural gas network, sell the electricity grid, sell everything that has been built in recent years by all Greeks and the benefit is only for a few blue children. And don't talk to us about demographics as a cause of social change. Because with your own work and your own choices you have created an insecurity in society. Children, who can't even enter universities and polytechnics, who can no longer have a pay for their work, who don't pay overtime, obviously have great insecurity to make a family. And there's a new wave of Brain Drain. You are responsible because without memorials, without lenders, you bring us new recession and new memorials on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u151	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u152	You are leading us to a medium-term, working and social ones with rapid anti-democratic choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u153	Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I would like to say, as a conclusion, that there are no societies and economies that have been saved with low wages, without education, without a social state, without a strong state, without a rule of law. That is all, that is, which the New Democracy pays. That is why it is not easy to say only that we are voting against this bill. We must vote against a government that is conservative, reactionary and popular, and above all a government that is dangerous, with a Prime Minister dangerous and political coward. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u155	The Rules of Procedure provide for speakers to be on the agenda. Of course the President-in-Office cannot talk about the substance of the matter, unless they fall down from the seat. However, if the speaker is out of the question, he will be released. So you're having a half an hour of conversation, Mr. Famele, on the case of Mr. Apostolakis. But I have one question and I am not bound by the Rules of Procedure to say so. So, Mr. Gregoriadis, when he called Mr. Kalogerou to inform him, didn't he have Mr. Apostolakis' consent? I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u156	Let me give you a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u157	No, he has no reproach. I've answered. Look at Article 68. He has no reproach.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, you have asked me a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u159	But you spent half a year off the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u160	When you speak to me, it becomes a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I have to explain what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u163	There's no reproach. Read Article 68.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u164	I want to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u165	We're not going to open a conversation. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u166	The Prime Minister misled Mr. Apostolakis and you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u167	We're not going to open a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u168	You cannot mislead society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u169	Okay. I don't get into politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u170	With lies and hypocrisy. This is against the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u171	You have falsified events on a matter outside the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u172	You do not express the Bureau!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u173	Out of the agenda. Read article 66 and 68 and you'll see what I said. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u174	Announcement, colleagues of SYRIZA. Stop exposing and insulting Mr. Apostolakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u175	Don't start too, Mr. Bukowo. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative and have the right to comment on broader issues of topicality and the answer to all of them have been received by parliamentarians from the other parties, as well as by fellow Members. I therefore again put forward my proposal to the SYRIZA Members to stop exploring Admiral Apostolakis. We heard from our previous colleague that Mr. Apostolakis has honored his uniform...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u177	Mr Buquoir, I think it's off the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u178	I am speaking as a parliamentary representative, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u179	Listen, party leaders and parliamentary representatives can comment on the day's events. If every Member does that, you understand the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u180	May I or may I not, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, he is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u182	All right, soon please, Mr. Buquoir. Complete your parable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u183	My colleague, who I succeeded in Stepa, said that Mr Apostolakis honoured his uniform. I have no doubt. He was in charge of UK and Chief of Navy and Chief of HNDGS. So how did a member of yours who said he honoured his uniform, by official announcement from your party, did you call him a remission and redeemed until he refused the proposal he had agreed to? When he's loyal to the party line, is he honest and has honoured his status and when he's off line is a renegade and redeemed? And since there was a lot of discussion on this issue, there was an effort made by the Prime Minister to obtain a consensus on persons and, possibly, on policies on critical issues, such as civil protection, a request from the parties to the last debate in this House. It is obvious that Mr Apostolakis accepted the Prime Minister's proposal and accepted the call from the Presidency of the Republic for his vow. Can I ask you something? Is the institution of civil protection higher than the institution of national defence? When Mr Apostolakis served the Armed Forces as Chief one day in the Admiral's uniform and the next day he became the Minister of a government in particular, did he ask for any political consensus from the other parties? You'll tell me he was a political executive and he invited his party back then. Yeah, but the day before he ran the Armed Forces. On the same day, did he acquire the party status so that he could accept the proposal to become the Minister of National Defence of a party? Or is it if you want sensations and consents to these? To make things clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u184	You've become clear, Mr. Buquoir. Come to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u185	I shall conclude, Mr President. First, did Mr Apostolakis agree with the proposal of Prime Minister Mr Mitsotakis and then asked the Prime Minister to ensure consensus? The same man who showed administrative competence, in command of the most critical parts of the National Defence, did not have the political courage to secure political consensus, to announce it to his party? Anybody else expected to make sure of that? That is why I am saying that I fully respect Mr Apostolakis' military adequacy, that I have been more specific, but I have been completely disappointed by his political reaction and when he became Minister of National Defence in yesterday's proposal. Its political response was indeed lower than the circumstances. We have also confined ourselves to this in that he has not withstand SYRIZA's pressure. What were these pressures? Has anyone wondered? What made a Admiral, a former Minister of National Defence reviewing his opinion? What kind of pressures did he take from his party? What's essential doesn't concern anyone, does it? So these few pounds of reshaping. Not a card of sensitivity, and when it accepts the proposal of a apostate and redeemed and when it rejects it honest and moral. They do not change so easily in one day and much more in an hour people's personalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u186	Good. You've become clear. Please proceed to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u187	Let's continue for the bill. Mr President, I do not know why you are constantly interrupting me. I don't know why. I don't know. I really haven't crossed time limits. I am in one third of the year, answering what the opposition parties have heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u188	You were clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u189	But I do not understand, my dear President, these holidays really. So I come to the bill. With the State guarantee for employee contributions, Article 60 and with the creation of a legal person governed by public law, which is the core of public law, the parties of anti-population come and talk about privatisation. I don't know how you mean privatization. If you mean that some will gain through the participation of funds in some investment projects and that will be done. We do not, however, demonise the profit from the time the workers' money, the employee's contributions are absolutely guaranteed. You may be the one who demonizes profit. On the other hand, you say that the workers' reserves and contributions will be damaged, despite the fact that the investment projects, which each worker will be involved in his own choice and with his own will, will be profitable. Opposite things. The anti-constitutional issues we discussed this morning. Both the Constitution and the rulings of the Supreme Courts make it clear, as demonstrated in the extensive morning debate, that no unconstitutionality exists in this bill. But what is there in this bill, ladies and gentlemen? There is a new architecture which, in fact, aspires to give a new perspective for the new generation of workers. Because here we hear the unprecedented Opposition that the system should remain the same, that it is financed as it is currently financed throughout the range, and that we have not managed as a state in the past to guarantee all pensions with demographic indicators on a daily basis and that we all aspire that things will, at least, remain as they are today. If this isn't a huge delusion, if this isn't a fencing, if that's not a novel, then what else is it? And the current government comes in and says not about today's workers, but about new entrants and up to thirty-five years old we are making a new architecture on the side of supplementary pensions, and we are accompanying this new architecture with the necessary studies, such as the laws and the Constitution, which make a prediction, a prediction, a prediction and a finding that supplementary pensions, which today represent 16% of earnings and the current demographic indicators in 2040, will only represent 9% of earnings, we believe, will reach 35% or 40% of earnings in the future with this new architecture. And you tell us no, we stick together waiting for the wave of any economic crisis and, above all, the wave of the demographic problem, that is, to capture the new generation. Don't we have the right to legislate? Don't we have a right to plan? And with our own mistakes, and with all the others, have we succeeded in guaranteeing, through the existing funding, all pensions? When the '11 crisis, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulos, came, weren't you a member of the PASOK government who was forced to reduce pensions by 30% to 40%? What guarantees are we talking about now? Why don't we take a step further? Let's not try, let's not see what's going on in the states that have succeeded? Stay in a failed system? Is that what you're asking? And where does the capitalisation system not apply, which is not in the ensembles, has that explained to you, is that only part of it? So, Canada's pension funds are failed funds? This is what Greece is lending, ladies and gentlemen. From Canada's pension funds Greece is borrowed. How, then, when there are some best practices, which over time have been justified by results, do you deny them and kick them ideologically fortified by supposedly unconstitutional, behind groupers, since the system remains a purely public, narrow core of the public sector? It takes a step further and I will tell you two examples. You say that the privatisations made in Greece by the "DEUTSCHE TELECOM" or "FRAPORT" are state-owned companies and come and buy Greek property. But you ignore the parameter that these companies that are, in fact, public companies from other states are operating on purely privatization criteria and are coming here and taking part in the privatisations of Greece and, of course, they are not coming to do any psychic and they are state-owned. So why cannot a country's state insurance system seek solutions for better supplementary pensions for the future? So why are we refusing? Why do we close our eyes ideologically inconsistent with any consistency that exists, measurable, whether it is demographic, or is it economic, or is this consequence, that we see them coming quickly? Why? Finally, for all those who react, their ideological placement is more important than the future of the new generation. And as long as the new generation sees that the political system cannot be consulted on some of these critical issues, because today the new generation believes that its premiums go to a bottomless bucket and are geared to black work and all that many colleagues have described. When he will have a reason, when there is transparency, when he sees the development of his savings every day, is there even one of the three hundred Members to say that he will not increase the confidence of young people in this system when so far in their contributions he has been managed in absentia? So you're saying that transparency will further reduce the confidence of the new insured? No, ladies and gentlemen, we say that transparency and participation of themselves will increase the confidence of young people insured. That is why we invite you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u190	Thank you too, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u192	Here, Mr Skourletis, you have the floor. You are a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. I heard before Mr Boukoro, in relation to the admonition made to the Members of the SYRIZA to protect Mr Apostolakis. I would just like to mention his own, perhaps he has not taken it into account, he does not know it, to refer to what Mr Georgiadis said today. Mr. Georgiadis says: "Mr. Apostolakis has been judged capable of managing crises for forty years by all the institutions of the Armed Forces". Since yesterday I have been very concerned about whether these institutions are working properly. This is the responsibility of the Vice-President of the Government to go out publicly and say about the former Chief of the Armed Forces, at a very sensitive moment on our national issues, what signal he signals. I don't care what he thinks of Mr. Apostolakis. I have had the opportunity to discuss the reshaping and hypocritical attitude to the issues of consensus on the part of the Prime Minister. But to God, he needs a little seriousness. So your remembrance is obviously directed to Mr Georgiadis, I imagine. I put it to the Minutes for the statement to be made. These statements must remain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u195	To clarify what he said, I imagine, because he didn't exist in form.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u196	My recommendation, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA, is addressed to you. In the context of the public dialogue, of adversity and of anything else, some issues can be resolved, but my complaint is now, because you were not in the Chamber: it may be that when Mr Apostolakis accepts the Mitsotakis proposal, with the official announcement of your party being a apostate and redeemed and when he rejects the proposal he is honest and renowned. So you stoned Mr. Apostolakis first. That's why I'm telling you: Protect him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u197	The floor is for the Vice-President of the House, Mrs Sakorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because my colleague has said too much 'why' before, I will also say 'why' to begin my speech. Why, Mr President, the public property instead of selling it for a piece of bread, instead of giving it to the supposed investors, did we not put it as capital in the public funds so that all that we can get from exploiting is going to the fund for people's old age? Why didn't we do that? It's a question I want to answer once from one of us. Because we have never discussed insurance from the start to the end, but not a piece of insurance. Well, today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, is another demonstration of the government's political perception. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, you are demolishing the public universal social security system. You are converting the redistributive system, which has so far applied to subsidiary insurance in most countries of the world, into capitalisation. Your ideology detests all concepts of collectiveness and wants to deny all forms of social solidarity. This is why you establish the insured person's infamous 'personal pigeon' system. Remove from insurance its national and social character. You turn it into a compulsory for each individual employee, individual participation in the games of the financial markets. That is why even in the title of the draft law, you yourself said: ‘Insert a capitalisation system for predefined contributions to subsidiary insurance’. You say supplementary and not social security. In fact, here, the state is not just an ombudsman or a mediator. It works as a normal propulsion, forcing all workers to pay their working life contributions to the hands of private businesses, passports. So you are making all the popular and social bases mandatory, all the workers of the next generations, customers of the most parasitic part of society and the economy, the same who has created all the last global economic crises. What can be the truth about imposing such a policy? The first easy reading is the strong link between large capital and political staff. One could also speak of relationships between dependency and mandate. But that is not the case. You are also making a drastic reduction in the State's obligations towards citizens and against workers. The responsible state body will simply collect the contributions and give them to the hands of the 'harks' of the financial markets and, if possible, without any effective control over their management. Neither will the state control management nor the insured. To date, in subsidiary insurance, the insured were able to control their participation in the administrative bodies of their insurance institution, and I mean the board of directors, but also the general assembly. You with characteristic liberal comfort send all this to the waste bin. There is no substantial provision in your bill to control the management of these huge funds. From this law there is a basic paragraph missing, the phrase imposed by law in all these cases ‘that insurance contributions are not guaranteed and previous returns do not guarantee future returns’. But you may also be right about the omission. This is necessary to protect the citizen, who voluntarily comes and chooses investments of this kind. But here, the worker has no choice. You're forcing him to deposit his contributions there. In 2008, with the collapse of the financial markets, they were lost by the individual-account capitalist systems - listen to number, fellow Members - 5.4 trillion dollars and, for example, say they had losses in Ireland 38%, in Australia 27% and in the United States 26%. And of course, you are overlooking it and you are predicting a state guarantee. So what does the state guarantee the insured, ladies and gentlemen? Only the return on contributions plus inflation. No one, of course, can guarantee that there will be no financial crisis throughout the whole year of worker insurance. To what, then, can every person insured with his pension hope? Only in periods of over-performance of the financial markets. This communal bait is projected by this bill. But we all know that these are very short periods of time and they are almost always the willingness of a new crisis. Invite fragmentally and fictionally the "Swedish model" to keep the neoliberal nature of the system in touch. One of the pioneers of the implementation of the system in Sweden, Carl Shellman, ten years after the start of its operation, wrote himself that "with this they deprived subsidiary insurance from solidarity that is a basic principle of social security, resulting in a reduction in the standard of living of pensioners". In the meantime, you are making progress in this system with full knowledge that it will bear a huge burden on the state budget, the famous cost of transition. Costs that will again be borne by taxpayers. It is therefore an additional cost to the insured. Today you separate the insured in two castes, the old and young people entering from 1-1-2022 and then, with two independent insurance systems. Youth contributions will not be used to pay the pensions of the old, nor the old and early retirement insurance funds for young people. Others estimate the cost of transition to EUR 56 billion. All studies show it from 49 billion to 78 billion. We all hope that they will not be disproved, as is usually the case, and that we do not have even greater swelling. However, we are talking about costs that the country's finances can't afford. However, it is not compatible with the Memorandum of Understanding. This will also serve as a lever for new parallel restructuring and it will surely bring new external interventions and new additional obligations to the detriment of our country. Of course, we did not expect this government to concern you with the problem of perpetuating the loss of national sovereignty. The whole scheme is therefore very simple and very clear: State and insured in full insecurity. Security and profits will have surely only fund managers. [[This is where the ending bell of Mrs Vice-President's speaking time is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like a minute, please. Of course, we do not feel any surprise. We all know how the Greek state treats social security and its insured citizens. We have a lot to remember. For decades the reserves of the funds have been committed to the Bank of Greece with provocatively low interest rates for the benefit of allegedly the national economy, as other colleagues have said. Then came the targeted legislative attack with multiple anti-insurance laws of all governments under the Souflias Act of the Government of Constantine Mitsotakis in 1992, then came the pillaging of LAFKA and the compulsory investment in bonds of the Greek state. Then we had the infamously structured bonds and reached the unprecedented robbery of the money of the insured with the unlikely PSI. This time-consuming policy of penalizing and violating insurance rights therefore had no break, not even in the years of SYRIZA's governance, which, as everywhere, overturned nothing and actually corrected nothing. So today the Greek state wants to continue with the money of the insured and now with upgraded methods. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the assured impunity of those responsible guarantees that your projects are being implemented unrestrictedly. Only society can and must change this course of things, and in this effort Mer25 and each of us will be - and must - its present and supporters. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Maria Kefala from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos from the JRC, speaks. Mrs. Head, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an innovative, innovative, a bold bill for the new generation. A bill, which supports economic growth and increases the confidence of young people in the country's insurance system, while at the same time exempting them from paying the pensions for parents and grandparents as soon as they enter the labour market, and when their own order comes for this money to be made less and less. There are many people who are wondering today whether today's young people will be able to retire. The demographic data in Greece in 2021 is not the same as in the 1950s and 1960s, which established our insurance system. And whatever government and government policy, the demographic problem is known to all of us and its implications are felt. If we do not limit the immediate impact, if we do not move towards better changes, our insurance system will have more and more problems. We are stepping out these problems in practice. We're trying to look into the new generation, look into the future. We want young people to feel security and confidence in our country's insurance system. We focus exclusively on those who undertake work from 1-1-2022 and for which work is under subsidiary insurance, but also on voluntary terms for those who are up to thirty-five years old. We create the Capital Insurance Fund, which will implement private-sector practices and investment philosophy. We are introducing a new, full and complete framework in which we reform the subsidiary insurance system in Greece. We are turning a section of the current social security system from distribution to capitalisation. The contributions of young workers will not finance the supplementary pensions of the current pensioners. On the other hand, the new system will save and be invested for their own pensions. We support the logic of individual pigeon, so that young people can have more control over their pensions, that they themselves can manage their contributions more effectively, so that they can decide for themselves what they will save. We want young people to be more independent, to be free to define their future and to feel safer. With this reform we provide two very important guarantees, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, there is absolutely nothing to change for the current insured and, secondly, any financial costs created in the current system will be covered by the budget. The current members will normally continue to be in the same pension scheme without having to pay any more or less sums. We will not let today's supplementary pensions be affected at all. Based on models, which have been applied for decades in many European countries as a response to the impact of demographic trends on their pension systems, we are aiming at significantly higher supplementary pensions. We are creating a new independent and stable security pillar with a significantly greater degree of recompense and freedom. We support the national economy, since much of the money that is collected is invested in the country. We are thus committing another pre-election commitment from the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. Following legislative changes in the main pensions sector, we are also involved in the subsidiary insurance component. We are responding to the challenge of ageing, a challenge which breaks the balance of the existing insurance system. Youth contributions will not be used to pay the supplementary pension for the current pensioners. They will be saved and invested. They will build a reserve from which their future pensions will be paid. We also equip them with the ability to choose between three investment profiles. They thus gain more control over their pension and amount and have more control over their own income and savings. And we point out by guaranteeing the public that this pension, which they will receive, cannot be less than the contributions they have paid. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill we are giving a solution with responsibility, with complete and technical competence. We are restructuring the supplementary insurance pension scheme. We legislate and move on to society one step ahead, always on the basis of the benefit of citizens. And we are not surprised by SYRIZA's isotope tactics and negligence and his obsession with the "snails". You have been left, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, from the "first time left" when you played the dice in the country. We as a government insist on solutions for insurance and pensions. We want to be effective. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, can stay with your sterile opposition tactics. We are strengthening youth confidence in the public insurance system, strengthening youth confidence in the state itself. We are creating a new independent, stable security pillar in order to enhance the sustainability of the entire country's social security system. We are here with knowledge, opinion and above all with political will and we are creating a fair and sound pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, too. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor and then Mr Ioannis Melas. Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Members of the New Democracy who have spoken so far are trying to make the crime the government commits against new workers and, respectively, the SYRIZA MPs are focusing on remodelling to criticise the government, not essentially posting on insurance because they have their nest. Thus, any change in persons to make the implementation of anti-population policy more effective, whether or not it has been completed, is the result of the conspiracy which the parties of the Euromonstry have, but also of the logic which Mr Tsipras has shown on common acceptance ministers. After all, the same consensus is expressed on energy issues, because the result of an increase in energy tariffs is a result of the European Union's criminal policy on the liberalisation of the energy market implemented by all governments, but also of deprivation, by replacing the domestic lignite with imported natural gas as a transport fuel, which the SYRIZA Government has imposed on it today, and also by the New Democracy Government. And the result is the exact current for the popular layers. With regard to the issues relating to the bill, to get through to them, the 'killer', i.e. all the parties that have governed, returns to the scene of the crime. This could be the title of this bill, for precisely because we have seen a time-consuming attack on the insurance system. One continued the work on the reinsurance structure of the previous government, to reach the monastery of Karugalos, where the lower insurance was effectively abolished, there was a distinction between national insurance and payroll insurance. Three hundred and eighty-four euros guarantees the state. This is national insurance after twenty years of work and six thousand alcohols. What about the reward? No guarantee. Depending on it - it says - with the sustainability of the funds. So here's SYRIZA's monstrosity. And it went on to capitalise the professional funds with the European directives which, as a government, voted to speed up their actions or private insurance companies with corresponding government decisions. So the capitalisation system, whether it concerns the main insurance funds, subsidiary insurance or the occupational funds, is the best practice, as the Minister has rightly said, of the Member States of the European Union. So we do not have an insurance system, an ancillary insurance fund, but an investment company, which is essentially talking about predefined contributions, the money that the insured will make. For rewards, however, a god knows what they will take after twenty, thirty years of supplementary insurance, because it will depend on the return of the financial markets. From this point of view, it is clear that the capitalist crisis which accelerates its emergence and its cycle has a significant impact on the financial markets as well, with the collapse of stock exchanges, by the collapse of businesses. That is why FINANCIAL TIMES had once written, which is not a left-hand form, that 'the stock exchanges do not pay pensions', Minister. On the contrary, what are you doing? You admitted it yourself in your recent television show. You made the insurance funds investment companies to be able to support the designs of business groups. So the capitalisation system does nothing but a huge redistribution of accumulated workers' insurance contributions for the benefit of business groups. And if there is a loss of this choice of placing on the financial markets, then the government says that the insured should not be afraid of any losses that the state budget will cover. Really? And is the state budget from your pockets, from the pockets of businessmen who gambled insurance reserves or are they from their own pockets as taxpayers? In other words, you say to them "and I will burn you, Giannis, and I will lure you oil after that." I mean, you're gonna pay for the mess that you're going to have as taxpayers. Our people, Mr Minister, say: 'The priest of a priest or a couple'. There is a conflict of interest here. What's this conflict? It's because of social resistance. It is precisely because investment funds are strengthening business groups that want very cheap labour power, labour power without rights to insurance, labour and trade unions. Consider the example that many such funds invest in the banks. The banks want to get rid of red loans, so they can auction. In other words, the insured person who will lose his home from the investment activity of those companies that invested in the banks. Is that absurd? Oh, no! That is the reality you want to impose. From this point of view, you are hypocrites when talking about demographic ageing, which, of course, is the result of the huge problems faced by new couples. You say a worker pays and maintains a pensioner a half and a half. You're a liar! Because these pensioners put their money, they paid their insurance contributions. This money, however, over time, the urban state and all governments gambled it at the National Bank at zero rates when inflation was 10% and 15%. They gambled on the financial markets and the stock market in 1999 on the government of Simitis. And then Mr. Drasakis said "we should not see the placement on the financial markets of the insurance funds, but rather choose those shares that are strong, the bank shares. Just imagine now. You gambled them in structured bonds. You gambled them in the state bonds that got tired. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude. From this point of view, there are crocodiles the tears of the Minister with the theatres he made in his speech about young workers who are not interested - he says - in pensions why they will not be retired. And who's to blame for that? It's not your fault? Isn't it SYRIZA's fault? Is it not the CINAAL's fault: who has shaped a jungle labour market, working wages, flexible employment, part-time employment that is turning into long-term unemployment? One who takes hundreds of alcohol a year to reach six thousand alcohols may take up to sixty years. When will the young man retire? And now you're supposed to hurt this world. But you have shaped these conditions for workers in the name of armoring the competitiveness of capitalist businesses, the shielding of the profitability of capitalist groups. So, then, the one who determines the overturns in the labour market, in the insurance system is not one and the other government, but they are the requirements of capitalist growth which you all have in one way or the other, is this rotten capitalist system that gives rise to poverty and impoverishment for the people and that is a real rival to the working class. This must aim at overthrowing this rotten situation so that the working class, by taking power in its hands, can organise the economy so that socially produced wealth meets all the widespread people's needs and not the various tax havens and offshore companies, the enrichment of a handful of capitalists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopou. Mr. Ioannis Melas has the floor, and then Mrs. Anastasia Garas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today on the future of the insurance of thousands of workers. The Law of the Ministry of Labour on the Reform of Subsidy concerns mainly the next generations and new workers. This insurance reform aims to gradually transform the ancillary insurance system from a redistributive redistributive today into a capitalisation. With the new system individual buttons are created, we could say, of which the future pensions of young workers will be paid. What's going on today, though? At present, workers' contributions are used to pay the pensions of the current pensioners. The question raised to every new worker is: Why should I pay? Am I going to retire? The Minister said so before. What's going to happen from now on? Contributions will be saved and invested by creating a reserve from which their future pensions will be paid. The contributions of each new worker will go to his own pension. For this purpose, therefore, the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, which will be a legal entity governed by public law and invest the funds from the contributions, is created. In other words, with this new system we give the new insured person the opportunity to choose from a small number of investment profiles to invest the funds of his insurance portfolio. At regular intervals, in fact, it will be possible to change this profile, having full control of its contributions and their returns. Its supplementary pension will be based on all their contributions and remuneration. The new supplementary insurance system will therefore be compulsory for employees and self-employed persons who enter the labour market for the first time from 1-1 to 2022, optional for persons under thirty-five years who either do not have subsidiary insurance or who are already insured in the existing system, and the level of contributions for the new subsidiary system remains unchanged. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes in the functioning of social security always create tensions and disagreements between the parties. However, it is important to have a real dialogue with arguments. Unfortunately, in today's debate the arguments from Opposition are missing. Opposition disagrees with this insurance reform and accuses us of privatising social security, of reducing current pensions and that the cost of transition is going to be high. But is all this true? Obviously, it's not. Social security is not privatised and remains public. The Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund set up will operate under the supervision of the Greek State, while the guarantee is provided that the new insured will not receive a supplementary pension lower than that corresponding to the contributions they have paid. There is no reduction in existing pensions. It is provided for in the bill - Article 59 - that existing pensions are not reduced. The pensions of the insured persons to be retired under the current scheme will continue to be calculated on the basis of the existing rules and will not be affected. Also, the cost of transition is not high, as the opposition is trying to present. According to IOBE, the National Analogue Authority and DPRKH, it amounts to EUR 120 million per year, while the state today - the Minister said so earlier - has 15 billion a year for the payment of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform is necessary because the demographic problem is growing and it takes time to deal with it. Already the Government of New Democracy has taken important initiatives to deal with it. But we have to keep things quiet so we don't find ourselves in the future with our backs on the wall. The current distribution system only works effectively when many workers finance the pensions of a few pensioners. But that no longer applies to our country. In order to understand the problem, in the first decades of operation of the social security system in Greece four or five employees corresponded to each pensioner. Today they account for only 1.7 employees in every pensioner and the prospects are not at all positive. Specifically for subsidiary insurance according to the National Accounting Authority, the proportion of persons insured from 2,6 in 2020 will decline to 1,7 in 2050, i.e. 2050 1,9 million pensioners will share the contributions of 3,2 million insured. So what do we want with this reform? Prevent the consequences of the demographic problem in social security, create savings of part of which will be invested in the Greek economy by strengthening growth and the creation of better paid jobs, give higher pensions to the insured of the new system. For example, a worker who is paid a minimum wage of EUR 650 and with forty years of insurance today receives an supplementary pension at EUR 153. With the new scheme, pensions can be raised to EUR 219. To increase, i.e. by 43% with returns equal to the average of the OECD member-state capitalisation pension schemes. It may even be increased to EUR 257 if returns are achieved equal to the average annual return on the reserves of the ECA which manages the gross mutual capital of the ‘ASAFLISTIC ORGANISATIONS’. We are trying to strengthen the sustainability of our insurance system and limit undeclared work. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform concerns the new generations and the future of our country. It responds to international developments, as societies and economies are transformed. It forms a modern, innovative and ambitious social security system. It is not addressed either to the right or to the left or to parties alone. It also concerns young workers who must stay in our country and work and move forward. We are shaping and promoting the insurance future of the new generation. Without young people there can be neither progress nor progress nor development. In recent years, indeed, the phenomenon of Brain Drain, where thousands of young people have left for abroad, has caused enormous problems in our country. This section of the supplementary insurance system is a small one, so that we do not have to be again confronted with a new Brain Drain. This system ensures that our young people will work and be able to control the supplementary pension they receive themselves. In this reform, then, the past is being mixed with the future. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to refer to topical and urgent subjects of major importance. National Crisis with Turkey: SYRIZA has called for the convening of the Council of Political Heads on the one hand, executives on the other...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Comrade, you'll be out of the bill. It's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u206	I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. So there is a national crisis with Turkey: the government has dealt with it. You asked then for the convening of the Council of Political Heads and, at the same time, for SYRIZA's executives and MPs to be held in Greek society in various ways, with the make news and the propaganda of Turkey's media. Pandemic and coronary: The President of Officerial Representation had requested consent to the person of the Minister of Health to deal with the pandemic. On the other hand, what are you doing? You are holding in your parliamentary group Mr Polakis, who has almost become the leader of the anti-invasives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u207	Please, finish it. You're off the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u208	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u209	You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u210	Don't get upset, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u212	Yesterday, the Prime Minister as a sign of good faith and consensus on civil protection issues placed in the position of the Minister of Civil Protection a former SYRIZA Minister, the former Chief of HNDGS.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up. You've been in nine minutes, and you're out of the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u214	You have failed your test for consent. You have failed as a government. You have failed as an Opposition. And as a minimum act, vote for the bills brought by the government that is to the benefit of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u215	Mrs Gara has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. I wish you all a good month. After the remodeling of the Mitsotakis government yesterday, it was confirmed that the country is governed by a weak, but, otherwise, an arrogant Prime Minister, dependency and interest, a Prime Minister who cares about communication, propaganda, the splendidness of his opponents and not the policy of substance, who is not interested in working for the social interest or the security and well-being of Greek and Greek citizens but for his political survival and his political image. This is a government that obeys economic and business interests by dismantling the social state, by suppressing social and labour rights, by constantly strengthening disparities, by shrinking the economy and public space. Every day, the incompetent government of Mr.Mitsotakis also writes a failure in culture and education, with dozens of university departments in the region at risk of closing thousands of students outside Greek public universities. A new Brain Drain is created with the ultimate responsibility of the Mitsotakis Government with about a thousand children in Evros staying without voucher for CIDs and nurseries. This is the social sensitivity and social support of the current government. In fact, we wonder there in Evros, what is today's government's plan for universities in Orestia, in Dumotikh, in Xanthi, universities with few entrants because of the application of the minimum import base? What shield of Evros speaks of the New Democracy officials with pride already? What development and support of Thrace do they talk about every day when they constantly close services, schools, universities, and the place is deserting because of the constant migration from abroad? What development policy is being pursued in support of the whole region of young families, but also of young people, in addition to communication movements and storms, such as the very well-known intergroup committee for the development of Thrace? She stayed on the paper too. But you failed in health with the pandemic to thwart the deaths, unfortunately, of workers being threatened with redundancies. And instead of currently working to strengthen the ESS, you are working on privatization and attacking health workers every day on a daily basis, after the applause has been exhausted. You also failed in civil protection, in the fight against fires, in the protection of the environment, in the protection of the house and in societies, creating a general feeling of insecurity and fear, which is exacerbated by the economic crisis, the tragic accuracy and unemployment. At the time you share left and right-hand millions of euros through direct assignments to SMEs to clinical authorities, contractors and other powerful people, you leave Greeks and Greek citizens unprotected. We have shops and businesses to keep shutting down, jobs to be lost, incomes and wages to shrink. At the same time, accuracy is scoring. We have rapid increases in basic foods, in primary supplies, in electricity and in electricity bills, in basic living goods. The Government of New Democrat Republic shall remain improper and unreasonable to monitor the developments that it has provoked. In this, then, the degraded and difficult situation for our society, the New Democracy once again chooses to attack the citizens for the benefit of a few private interests. After all, the whole of the bills you bring to Parliament serves, in particular, little, strong private interests. So today's draft law on the privatisation of subsidiary insurance is an integral and dominant part of the total neoliberal policy of this government, a policy affecting the large social majority, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, young people and young people, a policy that wants to change the economic and social model of the country, in order to make it a special economic area with cheap, flexible, flexible, flexible work without social rights, with a reduction in the social state, whose pillar is our insurance system. In fact, with the draft law under discussion, you hand over subsidiary insurance to individuals, and indeed, in the midst of a pandemic and a crisis. This is a counter-reform which undermines the public social security system and its redistributive character, which affects today's and future pensioners, which affects the public interest, particularly young people and young people under thirty-five years of age. Once again, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are targeting, attacking young people and young people in that country. You create insecurity, but also a reduction in their planned pensions. With the logic of individual pigeon, you abolish all concepts of social solidarity and solidarity between generations in our insurance system and promote individualisation and individual responsibility, as in all other areas. And the worst you do is to allow Golden Boys private corporations to gamble on the contributions of insured persons, even those who are protected by provocative immunities within this bill. However, you are trying to hide the huge financial gap that will result from the cost of transition to the private insurance system and burden the public funds with around EUR 75 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, you must explain to the citizens why you insist on derailing public finances and public debt, at the moment, at a time when this was regulated by the SYRIZA government with the exit of our country from the memoranda. You need to explain why you are changing the insurance at a time when the viability of the insurance system by the law of SYRIZA is guaranteed until 2070, a viability that Mr Brutsis also confirmed as Minister a year ago, in this Chamber, while he has in the studies and signature of Mr Tsakloglu. You must also explain why you are gambling with the contributions of the insured and you are bringing back past practice, I scandaled very well that the insurance system has been bankrupt, but also the country, such as the structured bonds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President - and I thank you for the tolerance - the New Democracy Government, seeing its political time ending, attempting to close its commitments to the interests which have shown it to the government, as this bill we are debating comes to hit the social majority, create great precariousness and inequality, gamble young people's contributions, ultimately reduce pensions. That's why he has to retire immediately, even now. Unlike New Democracy, we in SYRIZA support a single, public, distribution social security system as a pillar of development of the country, the rule of law on social cohesion and justice. The social demand, ladies and gentlemen, for political change and alternative developmental governance is becoming increasingly urgent. We are constantly working in this direction for the benefit of our society and our fellow citizens. On the other hand, you are deaf and content with the immunity offered to you by the friendly media. But your destructive policy, your destructive government will fall on a steep and be deafening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Klons Gregoriadis has the floor now, and immediately thereafter the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much for that, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, where did Mr. Hatzidakis go? I don't suppose he was thrown to increase PPC's tariffs and to return to continue parliamentary work after! I'm kidding, of course. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how many of you have not seen Wall Street Wolf. It's a famous movie. Before that, there was another famous Hollywood movie, "The Great Battery". However, the "Wolf of Wall Street" is a film that reminds me of which Leonardo Di Caprios stars. I will tell you briefly about those who do not have it in mind. Leonardo Di Caprio is a new broker. It comes to Wall Street, the heart of world stock exchanges. She is doing great with a parasitic huge corporation - which we suspect is LEHMAN BROTHERS under another name - until she is unfortunately falling into the big raccoons, the bankruptcy of LEHMAN BROTHERS. As soon as he's started developing and then instead of giving up, going home, thinking about building a little one, a provincial company would say, competitive. How will he be able to compete with the bankrupt anymore, from the last Wall Street colossal housing loans? How? Selling garbage. So, as he says, 'the Wolves of Wall Street' himself, 'we'll sell garbage'. I have to say something about the hero Leonardo Di Caprius acting. It has the special characteristics in relation to the parasitic oligarchs on which you rely and who are the commanders of "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", to be self-create. Your people, those who have shared our national wealth, that is, for eleven years now, have not even created themselves. The vast majority found them ready and took them with the help of the stolen from us, the Greek people. So then he thinks of the grand find Leonardo Di Caprio that he can sell garbage and then he'll be far away when everyone finds out they bought garbage. When the FBI reaches his luxurious yacht and turns him around with questions, he says, "Look at me, don't bother me, don't worry me. Whatever I do, morally can be measurable, but it was, it is and will remain completely legal." It is legal, therefore, to some extent, since they do as you say other OECD countries do. The question is if it's moral. I am asking you directly, that is, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, this. Do you find it reasonable to take our insurance funds' pension reserves to Wall Street Wolf to manage them? Because that's what you're doing. That's where you'll take it. The greatest opportunities are in garbage, as everyone who's in trouble with the sinful stock exchanges and the garbage must go to the Greek people's money if they have a chance in a thousand to get ill. If you consider that moral and right, do it. So to avoid fooling ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is in fact just one thing, the basis for privatising subsidiary insurance and introducing stock exchange gambling into our supplementary pensions. The creation of the so-called individual pigeon is the tomb of the collective social character of supplementary pension, as what happens to it? It is now turning into another individual case of the citizen, thus signalling the end of human protection when he is now ageing. And I warn you, no one is excluded. We'll all get old if we haven't already started, or we're not already old. Therefore, protection that turns into an individual case and marks the end of human protection when it ages. When? In other words, when all of you, who have been in the process of working and carrying out all this evil today, are going to be too far away. The "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." will have been bankrupt for years. You will not be accountable in other words either you or your CEO, who represents our Prime Minister. The pension ceases to be of protection, Mr President, and turns into one - many introductorys - 'investment', and the insured - in even more introductory forms - become 'investors'. What if the investment doesn't go well? Then investors will be described, as we know, as unfortunate gamblers. This isn't the first time. It's become dirty '99 to remind you of that, too, by Mr. Simitis. Unlucky gamblers, then, investors. What has experience shown us when we talk about unfortunate gamblers? That every time the reserves of the insurance funds are gambled, the unfortunate - in many introductory words - 'jogarians', that is to say, our pensioners who have paid them, as the speaker of the Communist Party quite rightly said before me, will lose all their money. You tell me this. And how do you know, Gregriadis? How do you anticipate that these investments are going to go badly and lose the money? I'll answer you right away. I know it safely, and I guarantee it to you, you know where? Since the wonderful period of your return, from 2005 to 2007, when you have ruled with Prime Minister a little more serious than Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Kostas Karamanlis. Then, do you know what you did? You have placed 1.8 billion of the Greek people's laxity, the supplementary fund reserves, in complex - very nice term! - investment products, known structured calibration bonds. Is your result known or do you want me to remind you? They disappeared two billion dollars, they were thrown on the road. They were unfortunate gamblers, our insured people at the time. Of course, I must remind you that the well-known and unexplained Costas Simitis is the one who opened the way for these sinful investments. You didn't create it. You found it ready. When did Mr. Simitis do that? Starting from that unforgettable period of our Stock Exchange, the '88-89 stock market miracle, with the biggest losers, has just collapsed, of course, what else? The viability of our insurance system and our pension funds. The story has been repeated once and twice and three times, and you continue to want to repeat it, which will lead to even greater poverty and even greater impasse to the safety of the Greeks. And since the Memorandum of Understanding, Mr President, has always been permanent, which has blue, green and red stripes - footballing - today's bill clearly paves on the footsteps set by the law of Mr Katrugalos, who explicitly provided for investments, namely the gambling of our insurance funds. Since this bill has been called "reforming the new generation", I would really like to ask you what a new generation you are talking about. For the new generation that you send by thousands, about seven hundred thousand abroad, with the unemployment you created them, which reminds me that 38% had arrived and that is where it is going again? Again to the glory she pulls! This new generation you care about? Do you care about the people you sent this year to pay the poor parents to private colleges, your friends owners, on the minimum import base that you set up with Mrs Keramea? However, I cannot talk about the greatest, the highest threat that exists above this new generation. And is it, of course, nothing other than the destruction of the environment, which you are turning into speculation for who else? For your own few commandments. Mr. Hatzidakis, I heard him from the TV up in our office. Really, Mr. Hatzidakis, do you care about the new generation? Is that why you legislated the mining a year ago? So the new generation doesn't have a place to stand? That's why the Prime Minister said last Wednesday that we're going to need another five thousand wind turbines because we're committed? Indeed, to whom Mr Mitsotakis has been committed, because such a Memorandum commitment does not exist. We have exceeded the wind-alternative rate that we need to have to be in line with the norms of the European Union. Let the Prime Minister tell us what commitment he meant. This new generation you don't care about at all. You hit her with the newly dismantled Minister, Mr Chrysochide, for a year and a half, and after you stopped hitting her, you said she was the only one who took away dramatically from you - we are close to the fourteen thousand dead - the pandemic. This new generation you want to save with your new bill? You won't save her. You'll give her one to go deeper into the grave you've led her to. Finally, Amendment No 1045 that you tabled on the discharge from the EVH of property in burnt in 2018- Eye and Kineta in order to ensure that we do not forget, that is - you are exposed as government irreparable. In your explanatory statement to this amendment it is clearly stated that the exemption from HNVO for property affected by the catastrophic fires in 2018 is due to the fact that the management is not completed, namely the recording, processing and compensation of the affected three years later. And I ask you directly - I can't ask you straight away -: given that this year's disaster, ladies and gentlemen, and Members of Parliament, in northern Evia, in Laconia, in Corinthia, in Messinia, in Elia, in Barumbas was hundreds of times greater than Matti and Kineta, how many terminas are you telling me that you will have completed the procedures for the recording and compensation of the affected? Do you want me to answer you? Never, ever, ever, if I judge from the two years you are running and what you have done in Eye, which you had made your pre-election flag, and even now you are making an amendment to it, because you have not found what you owe them. Never of drinks. MERA25, ladies and gentlemen, - Mr Hatzidakis, I am glad you have come to listen to me too - we have tabled an amendment for too long. You know what this amendment says. Sort of you know what he's saying. It says that the only sustainable and socially cohesive solution is the one put forward by Mera25, namely the strengthening of our insurance funds, Mr Hatzidakis, with alternative sources of income other than contributions. First of all, we propose the conversion of the GOI - Ultravatium, you know this technical shame - the sale of our public property - to a development bank whose shares will be completely passed on to the insurance funds. In other words, the public property is being passed on to the insurance funds with a dual objective: first, the strengthening of their capitalisation, which has been nullified by the disastrous PSI of Evangelos Venizelos, but also as a source of revenue if the funds are to receive its net income from the management of our public property and not to leave abroad. Second alternative source of income for the insurance funds is the introduction of a special tax on banks that will be entirely directed at strengthening our pension. Of course, all of you have ignored this proposal, but you have your reasons. You are prisoners and, indeed, exemplary of the troika. The HICP and the Supreme Court that divest the public property are the children of the Troika and they need protection from the parties of the Memorandum Arc, that is, all of you. Also, saving and service by bankers is an order of the troika and, of course, a priority of the parties to the Memorandum Arc. And now I'm going to tell you a few words about what's happening these days. First of all, I was here and I was ashamed on behalf of all of us last week in the debate at the level of political leaders, where Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of the country, who at the same time has the only privilege to be an anonymous company, said on behalf of all of us - and whoever disputes me, let me refer to the Minutes and this is the result, when every tragedy, every disaster, every problem and every problem we face only in communications, as you do two and a half months and two months now - from this Step on Wednesday or Thursday - I do not remember what the day was - the Prime Minister: "We have managed not to mourn victims, although we have lost Vasili". And I ask you: shouldn't we all be ashamed that we have this man for Prime Minister? What's Santa Claus? What's Mr. Floras? Thirty-eight years old, father of two children and volunteer until yesterday, late today, undefiled forever for us, he gave his life for his fellow people for a concept that is completely unknown to you, solidarity. What was that man? Was it something else? A PPC pole fell upon him and so an entire government of excellence is relieved, because it didn't burn, but a pole fell, who fell because it was burned? This theater of absurdity, this ridiculous communication management will not lead you anywhere. And I close, Mr President, because it is really embarrassing and we must all be ashamed of what the Prime Minister said yesterday. I do not know how he said it, but he said it - with the famous reshape that happened yesterday. I'll be back in a minute. This remodeling really is just to cheer a little bit. Where to start, and where to end? I want to ask you something from all of you who are of the Couple: what was Mr. Kikilias after all? Was he a good minister or a bad guy? Because if he was good, he had to stay at his ministry, and if he was bad, he shouldn't have gone to the Ministry, which is our country's heavy industry. Someone must have made a fat mistake, or who got him out of one department or put him in the other. Both of them can't be together. He was also so wise as to take Mr Kikilia out of there, thought, "Who do I have perfect for the Minister of Health?" And he found all of you Mr. Plearis? I'm sorry, I don't have anything with the man, but he's the most inappropriate. I remind you that Mr. Ploris is mostly a handwriting man. It's always been. It was when he said that immigrants and refugees should find such a hell of life where hell has escaped from them. He was the same that some twenty-four hours before you ruled he went at dawn in Exarch Square, masturbating - apologising for this ridiculous expression - and whispering that from Monday here we will be free to walk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u219	Finish, Mr. Gregoryde, why are you out of the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u220	And I am asking you directly, then, about your Minister - to rejoice with such a Minister of Health - two years and two months after you are ruled free? Do you want to go to Exarchia tonight and see if you'll make it? You won't make it. Do you know why you won't make it? Why did you open a vendetta by brimming them for a year and a half and now you've managed it to be unbaptized. So I say, Mr President, that with these and Mr Apostolakis not knowing whose Minister it is, with a government that he did not know if Mr Apostolakis had discussed with Mr Tsipras, with Mr Apostolakis not knowing whether he had discussed with the Prime Minister, with all this salt, to make this inconsistent reform. It is an unspeakable memory, that this world remodelling will remain in history for too many reasons, but above all - and this I will really close, Mr President - because with this remodeling you have achieved the greatest threat to Europe, to neo-fascism, not to think of it as much, as three people connected with the extreme right in Greece for decades have been in your major ministries. Rejoice them, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u221	I had announced Mr. Vesyropoulos, but Mr. Tsakloglou will speak in the capacity of the Deputy Minister for Social Affairs and Mr. Vesyropoulos will talk about the amendment a short time later. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following a close study and one-year work on a legal, proportional and economic level, I have the honour of proposing, of course, with the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, the draft law on subsidiary insurance reform. The draft law is a governmental prognostic initiative based on good practices that have been in place for decades by European states with a enviable welfare state. But you will allow me to begin my position with a historical regression: eighty-nine years ago in this Chamber the first systematic attempt to introduce social security into our country was being discussed. Mutual funds were already in operation, but insurance was exhausted in the same business without universal coverage of employees and later, as expected, of other occupational categories. The legislative initiative was prepared by the Venizelos Government, which had received a high level of technical assistance from external experts, mainly from the International Labour Office, which was reflected in the draft's truly excellent report. The bill, however, was passed by the Papanastassiou government, which had parliamentary support for liberals. During his speech from this Step, Eleftherios Venizelos stressed that "By social security, the Greek society will be better trained and equipped to cope with all the risks that society is facing today". At that time, in the depths of the economic crisis launched by the United States in 1929, an interesting public debate was taking place in our country in the area of radical liberal center, with perhaps George Theotokas, who was trying to identify policies to create growth and prosperity for all, namely what we now call 'inclusive growth', this 'inclusive growth', as is said in English. The social security bill was part of this logic. Similar questions arise at the current juncture. Other crises in both our country and internationally bring to the heart of the debate the issue of inclusive development, especially in its intergenerational dimension. In all respects - economic, climate and so on - we are burdening the new generation with a great deal of overweight. This trend cannot and must not continue. The draft 'Security reform for the new generation', such as the title of the bill, is precisely part of this logic. It changes the architecture of supplementary insurance, so that the country's insurance system can be properly adapted to address the serious challenges that the demographic ageing of the population and other diseases such as the size of undeclared work and thus the Greek economy's development model. And, as in the respective Venizelos - Papanastassiou bill, this bill has become an important advance, which is reflected, among other things, in the three accompanying studies, which are proportional, macroeconomic and sustainability of public debt prepared respectively by the National Analogue Authority, IOBE and DPRKH. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society is growing and growing rapidly. The fertility rate, i.e. the average number of children born by women of childbearing age, is now 1.4 and is well below the number that would enable the population to be stabilised, which is 2.1. At the same time, due to progress in health and hygiene, the expectation of survival has been steadily increasing for many decades. These developments lead to a rapid increase in the ratio of dependency, i.e. the number of older people to the working age or the ratio of retired workers. The existing social security system is almost exclusively distributed, i.e. the contributions of current workers pay the pensions of current pensioners. The distribution systems work satisfactorily when the workers are many and the pensioners are few, that is, the ratio of dependence is low. But they are experiencing considerable difficulties when this relationship is inverted. In the first decades of operation of the social security system in Greece, the ratio was four to five employees for each pensioner. Today the corresponding figure is only 1.7 and all the studies we have show us that the prospects are nothing but roses. Demographic ageing is not exclusively a Greek phenomenon. It is seen in almost all developed countries and gradually in more and more developing countries. In most of the other developing countries, when they perceived the importance of demographic risk for their distribution pension system, they introduced or strengthen the capitalisation pillar of the system, precisely in order to achieve a differentiation of insurance risk and reduce the system's exposure to demographic risk. Today in countries such as Denmark, the Netherlands or Sweden - to mention just a few countries with an enviable level of social protection - the vast majority of workers have a supplementary capitalist insurance system. In many countries the reserves of the pension funds exceed 100% of GDP and in some even 200% of GDP. In almost all OECD countries, the capital funds have had a great deal of growth in recent decades. This attempts to do this in our country, admittedly decades behind, this bill. What exactly does the bill provide for? The draft law provides for the gradual transformation of subsidiary insurance from distribution to capitalisation. The reform only concerns subsidiary insurance and new workers. The main pension remains as it is. In particular, for new entrants on the labour market from 1st of the new year with compulsory subsidiary insurance and optional for those who are insured under thirty-five years with or without the subsidiary insurance obligation to choose the scheme, subsidiary insurance contributions shall be directed to individual accounts, invested on the basis of their preferences from the fund to be established, the Capital Insurance Fund, the EEKA, and their pension shall be determined by all their contributions and returns on their investments. The TECA is a legal person governed by public law. The selection of the Management Board and the Steering Board shall be carried out by particularly strict meriting procedures and always under the auspices of the AACC. Its function is based on professional management. Good governance standards are adopted and there is transparency in both its functions and the information provided. Each insured person will have full information on the contributions and returns of his investment in real time from his or her computer or cell phone. Two guarantees are provided in the bill: the first to the members of the existing system that their pensions will continue to be calculated on the basis of the current rules and there will be no pension cut. The second to the members of the new system that the pension they receive will at least correspond to the amount of contributions they have paid in real terms, i.e. taking into account the effect of inflation. In other words, the State guarantees non-negative returns. In other words, only returns on investment are actually subject to market fluctuations and not to the contributions paid. However, I must say that in the light of the experience of many other countries and also of the simulations we have made, we will need to use this guarantee in a very few cases. In addition, there are two favourable differences in the draft law in relation to the existing system. First, insurers who do not complete 15 years of insurance are reimbursed in real terms, but not in return for their investments. Secondly, in the case of invalidity or death of an insured person with a low contribution, a pension equal to a minimum of 15 years of unskilled worker's contributions is provided. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform has four objectives: Firstly, to reduce the exposure of social security to demographic risk, to achieve a differentiation of the insurance risk to the whole social security and thus to strengthen the stability of the social security system as a whole. The members of the new system will receive three pensions: national, reward and subsidiary. These are subject to different risks: budgetary, demographic, markets. However, given that these risks do not have a very high positive correlation, the overall risk is decreasing and this improves the stability of the entire social security system. In other words, we don't put all our eggs in a basket. And not to forget that social security is first of all a form of insurance and that is a basic principle of insurance. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I had the feeling that it was fifteen minutes at my disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u223	You can also use your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u224	Secondly, create savings, an important part of which will be invested in the Greek economy by boosting productivity and economic growth, creating more and better paid jobs, leading to higher direct and indirect taxes and social security contributions. Let us not forget that investment is basically the fuel of growth and the proportion of investment in GDP in Greece is the lowest in the European Union. Thirdly, to pay higher pensions to insured persons in the new system. The existing supplementary insurance system is what we call capitalisation and a zero deficit concept. In practice this means that every year all the pensions provided must be equal to the total insurance contributions. Consequently, the rate of replacement of supplementary pensions, i.e. the ratio of the average supplementary pension to the average salary, depends on the development of the ratio between the number of pensioners and the number of persons insured. This is worsening over time, and this leads to a significant reduction in the rate of replacement. According to the estimates of the National Analogue Authority, from 16% that is currently the rate of the supplementary pension, it will fall to 9.5% in just three decades. As I said before, we do not discover the wheel. Such capitalisation pension schemes have been operating for decades in many countries. The experience of these countries shows that the real performances of the capitalist systems - as Mr Hatzidakis has already shown - have higher variations than those of the distribution systems, but in the long term they are much higher and especially those of the old-age distribution systems such as the Greek one. Based on this experience, we believe that the pensions of the new system will be considerably higher than those of the existing system. Fourthly, to restore the confidence of the new generation in the insurance system. The creation of individual kumparads creates strong counter-incentives for youth participation in uninsured work. This helps restore youth confidence in the insurance system by linking their contributions in a tangible and transparent way to pension and by responding to the concern expressed by many young people that "I will never retire". At the same time, the reduction of uninsured work will have an obvious positive impact on both the incomes of the insurance system and the Greek economy in general. Several counter-problems have been heard, in my opinion, most of them have been completely unfounded, which I have already answered in the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and I shall also refer to my second language. But I would like here to stand up to the only counter-protect that has been heard and could be well founded, but it is not. It is that of the transfer cost. The cost of transition is precisely because no reductions are to be made in the pensions of the existing system. Depending on the discount rate, the National Accounting Authority calculated that this cost is from something less than EUR 50 billion to more than EUR 70 billion. In the central scenario with discounted prices, the transition costs are estimated at EUR 56 billion. I repeat, however, that we are talking about a 50-year-old depth. To understand the comparison measure, last year alone for the support of the pension system, the budget gave EUR 16 billion, i.e. the corresponding cost will be covered in just four years - only four years - budget grants. But that is not the main argument. The main argument is that this is the gross cost. Why is it the gross cost? I said before that that a significant part of the resources of the new fund are to be invested in the Greek economy. That is what boosts economic growth and that leads to higher taxes and social security contributions. According to the IOBE's macroeconomic study, in the central scenario the additional financial benefits are about EUR 50 billion. Beyond the fifty-year period - which is the timeframe of the economic studies submitted to Parliament - the benefits surpass with a very large margin any cost, i.e. after this fifty-year period, the benefits are clearly much higher than any cost which is too small at that stage. Therefore, the net cost of transition is fully managed and this is beyond the other benefits for the workers and the Greek economy. However, I would like to point out, by addressing the future finance and labour ministers, that while the gross cost of transition will be recorded in the budget, the benefits will be distributed to the economy and the additional budget revenues generated will not be recorded in the budget in a discreet manner. This, of course, does not mean that they do not exist at all. After all, let us not forget, as several speakers have said, that an important part of the development of the Greek economy in the past has actually been financed by the surpluses of social security in the early years of operation of the system and, obviously, this has had a very large financial impact as well. Ladies and gentlemen, during the ten years of economic crisis before we followed many barren controversy, while the country was at the immediate risk of bankruptcy. In particular, as far as insurance is concerned, the controversies were very strong. The result, however, was common and unfavourable to anyone who came to the government and faced reality. Opposition usually focuses on what costs it has an insurance reform. This is relatively easy to measure. What costs, however, do we have when our economy is stuck in low growth because of the non-implementation of the reform? That is the really important question, and that is what we need to answer. If something should have been learnt from the ten-year crisis, it is the value of consensus and fruitful counter-population, of counter-population that is aware of the problems and proposes solutions and improvements. Insurance is a national issue and, as in foreign policy, there is a little - quite a national line and a culture of cross-party consultation, so should insurance. This is something - some of the speakers have pointed out earlier - which is already happening in some countries. Insurance is not about a government's term of office, but it is about many governments, because, for what a government decides inevitably, the next governments will also be involved. The Additional Insurance Reform Act is a significant long-term structural reform with the main beneficiaries of the new generation that will enjoy higher pensions in the future, without prejudice to the living standards of the pensioners of the existing system. It has a proactive character and strengthens the stability of the entire social security system, strengthens the country's development prospects and helps both to limit undeclared work and restore the confidence of young people in social security. This is a major step towards modernising the social security system that comes - to use the words of Freedom Venizelos - to face a major risk facing society today. It would be a good thing if this bill were supported by wider powers within Parliament's Chamber. We really owe it to our children and grandchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Ioannis Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy, and then I will give Mr Besiropoulos three minutes to develop his amendment. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, and good month! The two biggest problems facing the country over time are demographic and insurance. It is now coming to add climate change. Demographic and insurance are directly linked and are the biggest issues that we have paid very much for all these decades. As he explained before - if you heard him - Mr. Tsakloglu, the pension system is something very recent, not even a hundred years have passed since the first pensions were given to the Government of Eleftherios Venizelos. IKA was founded on Ioannis Metaxas in 1937-1938, if I remember correctly. They didn't exist before, they weren't, there were no pensions before, it wasn't a given pension. The pensions - you can imagine - were first introduced to Germany in Bismarck and the pensioners then came out at sixty-five years, that is, the age limit was much lower than it is today. So to understand what we are talking about, we are talking about a very difficult system, which, unfortunately, in Greece we are making it even more difficult by arbitrariness, populism and demagogicism of all governments, none of them except, none! Everyone was giving increases out the window, kicking the can down, until of course the system ran out, didn't last. Why do many say: But, how did pension increases come about? Do you remember that? Do you remember it or have you forgotten it? With ministerial decisions or laws brought by the government in question, the pensions were increased to hold the audience, not because they were going better than finances, nor because insurance contributions were increased, but to cover purely electoral purposes and nothing else. All governments and the New Democracy, including, right? To be realistic. In 2001, I did the morning show at the ERT. Then the "Yannitsi bill" had come, if you remember. You should remember, even though it's been twenty years. He had come to my show and Yannitsis and Spraus, who was chairman of the committee that created the bill. And Spraus tells me, after he explained to me the evidence: "If we don't make significant contributions, in ten years we won't be able to pay pensions." Then, as you recall, the biggest rally in Greece's history was against the "Giannitsis bill", which has never happened before. It was from the extreme right to the extreme left, everyone and the New Democracy inside - so, to say things by their name, I never chew my words - so that the bill won't pass. And the PASOK was inside, the PASOK that brought the bill. After this rally, Simitis was forced to withdraw the bill. Ten years have passed and ten years later there was no money to pay the pensions, just as the Spear had predicted. Imagine that in the 1960s between 2001 and 2010 Greece went bankrupt the cost of the state budget for the pension system was over EUR 250 billion, more than two thirds of the public debt. That's what the funding of the insurance system, which was a rotten, rotten insurance system, cost. And then, of course, in 2010, in 2011, and then we arrived at the unprecedented pension cuts, in this disgrace at the expense of pensioners - I understand it very much - they became injustices. People who had paid did not receive pensions, while people who had not paid continued to receive large pensions. There have been many injustices, there is no doubt. There have been terrible things in the pension system over the past decades, but they have been abrupt in the past decades. And today - for those who do not want to think about it - the insurance system is financed by the state budget at a much higher rate than the average of the European Union. In the European Union, if I remember correctly, it is about 12%, in Greece it is about 20% of GDP, the Gross Domestic Product heading towards the pension system. It's huge, it's huge. Here, then, we must tackle this realistically and say what we are going to do. How are we gonna deal with this, guys? It cannot go on like this, when we have even the cords of the demographic problem, which is happening every day and worse! Many speakers have explained to you how the workers were thirty, forty years ago and how they are today in relation to a pensioner. Therefore, the de facto system must become capitalising. It's no different if it doesn't become a capitalist. There is the national pension - quite rightly and we need to strengthen it as much as we can with economics - but from there and beyond what you get. You can't get what you haven't got! You can't make it with a ministerial decision! Do you remember once - what I say and it's crazy - that there were people who were retired greater than their salary in Greece? They were getting a higher pension than a payroll! There is no pension system in the world as a whole that can be maintained with these attitudes, how much more in a country like Greece that faces a huge economic problem, but also a huge demographic problem, which will become rather worse than better. Under these circumstances this supplementary insurance bill comes in. In my opinion, it's a bold bill. Of course it takes time. After thirty, thirty-five years, they will start to pay what they will now pay. But it is in the direction of what I said to you, the only thing that can be done, that is, the capitalist system. There is nothing else to be done in Greece today. Will it work? What can I tell you? After fifteen and twenty years, no one can know what the situation will be like, but it is the direction to be followed as a whole, in my opinion, and more daringly in the main pension and not just in the subsidiary. From there on, however, I have to say something else - and I shall end, so as not to waste any more time - because I have heard it from a lot of colleagues in anti-Population. I heard the money was going to be gambled. Do you consider the investment gambling? I want to understand that. The investment, whether in shares or in bonds, is gambling? So, you're telling the pensioners of California why the pension system in California invests in bonds of the Greek State, that they gamble and badly invest in Greek government bonds when they are issued? Is that what you're telling them? I also heard my friend, Mr. Gregoryade, talking about stock exchange gambling. Does Mr. Gregoriadis or any of you left-wing colleagues know if there is any other country, except North Korea, where there is no stock exchange? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, too. Mr. Giannoulis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would agree with my colleague Mr Loverdos with a slight discrepancy. Mr. Loverdes described exactly the political action of those who put the party over the country. So he described the Mitsotakis government practice over the last two years. And I would remind you that all that you described about the insurance deadlock, which is getting worse with today's legislation, has resulted in the country breaking down bankrupt in 2009. So don't go to generalisation with the unknown "X". The country went bankrupt in the hands of your own governments in 2009. There is no general and collective responsibility. You're not honorers, and we're not accused, because now it's becoming a comedy, tragic, tragic maniac that it's all the fault of SYRIZA! You have accurately described the definition of the client state that you are its X-ray! Ladies and gentlemen, it did not take yesterday's fiasco of the 'Luxembourg Orthodox Reform' to confirm the view that, apart from dangerous - it lives and is experienced by the place in the last two years - you start and become a little comic, because it cannot after all failure of the two-year rule Mitsotakis there can be the stereotype answer 'E, well, it is SYRIZA' and be formulated in any way, without any suspension. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Even since yesterday, not even your voters, the people of your party, have retained their sceptic remarks. We are talking about the case of Admiral and former Minister of State Apostolakis. Do you want me to give you an example of this fiasco with another protagonist? Is it possible to describe State Secretary of Government, who swears State Secretary for Fisheries Policy and declare “I am proud because I swear to help my fellow citizens in Evia” in Poor Evia? So what exactly will Mr Kedicoglou do to resin producers and beekeepers? They're not fishermen. The property of the people, their livelihood, the environment, the forest and the Deputy Minister for Fisheries Policy, by fishing for votes, declares before the oath of "I am glad why I swear to the Mitsotakis Government"? Isn't that a customer and non-transparent state?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u229	Colleague, focus on the subject, because you will open up another course of speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I've been waiting for this. That's the accident. But please, I would like to define the subject of my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u231	Okay, you can talk for two minutes, but you'll waste time. Anyway, here you go, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u232	Thank you for your interest, but I'll try to be in time. After two years, then, of disastrous governance, your hostage as a majority parliamentary group to support a Prime Minister, who cannot take on the responsibility of a reform, is not funny. There's also a juncture. You have completed, if I am not mistaken, twenty-five months in the country's governance and you are now bringing the bill on the abolition - in essence - of subsidiary insurance. Because you have indeed introduced terms of political gambling, you have poisoned public life in every form of toxic approach, in every form of trembling, now enter political gambling. Let's take it. But you have drawn the burned card, because it is hypocritical that the attitude and interest you make for the new generation is hypocritical. You have proved in practice how you are after, hate, tyranna, when the country with the highest rate of unemployment among young people will lose the presumption of public support and subsidiary insurance. But what kind of hypocrisy? Of course, most importantly, when you resort to the easy argument "For everything it is because of SYRIZA", it is that at the same time you also act on mud revolvers. We have seen it today, too, for the remodelling. Of course, the most important thing, for which we invite you months to answer and deny, is that you have such a stubborn mind for the new generations, such a vile for young people, young boys and girls in this country. Never before has there been a government that targeted young people with such cynicism to the limits of sadism. And you started before the pandemic with the release of redundancies, signed by Yannis Brutsi. Do you realize what the picture this summer was in the industrial relations? We speak for fourteen hours a day of work, ten days of continuous work at best. Has someone smacked the term "excessive"? They are still printed on the digital card that will be published on the basis of your much advertised work intervention. I understand why young people collect this attitude from you. I can explain it. I do not want to admit, however, that it is so cynical that your interpretation is so cynical, because the attitude of dignity and maturity which they show is not publicised, which you as government are depriving us of. And solidate it features. It's fresh, you know, still the tough truth about how you treat the new generations with the results of the Keras bill - it was rescued in the remodeling, Samaras didn't initialise for change, so he escaped - what happened at the IOIs by entering new people and demanding their future. In secondary education schools open up in a few days. You defend without shame the increase in the number of children in classes in twenty-seven, when you easily move the finger as responsible for the pandemic to everyone other than the government and Mitsotakis. Lies, threats and communication in this bill too. These are the building materials, they are your features. I won't stay in the remodeling because you don't need a lot of effort to understand why the "excessive" ministers Kikilias, Theocharis and Chrysochoidis saw the door of exit. In other words, it is of interest to analyse it. What is interesting, however, is that the cause of your panic is that, despite the sorrows of propaganda and misinformation, comparison with the governmental results of SYRIZA, but also its programming perspective, despite the class front you are supporting. I am listening to the last few hours - I will close with this - to refer to many of you as 'apostasy'. I would like to remind you - although Mr Mitsotakis had once said that 'e, history may not be very useful for young children' - that apart from apostasy, you know, ladies and gentlemen, there is another historic turning point in this country. It is the undeniable young people, it is the undeniable generation, to hold true democracy in this place, to have public free universities, dignity and justice. It's been rough years, it's the truth. A large part, however, of that unparalleled struggle found vindication. Do you know what I'm afraid of, or rather I hope, I think it'll happen to you? In the face of your eyes, the story of a new unpopulated and unpopulated and refuses to understand it because it spoils your agreements that have brought you to power. He is a new andidian of a new generation, calling again for justice, democracy and equality. In the latter, there are many serious gaps. When you understand it, you will again be in the chairs of counterpopulation, you will also be looking for a new leader, but much more you will be looking for a new political orientation. Don't be so cynical, don't fight the new generations, accept the prefecture that young children should be questioned and we should respect them. A sign of writing in this direction would be to withdraw this bill, not for the good of your party, but for the good of the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u233	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor now to develop the amendment of the Ministry of Economy, and Mrs Papariga will then speak. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government continues to act with lasting institutional intervention in order to facilitate the return to the normality of all citizens, but also to support those who need it. The procedure for these institutional interventions does not have static features, but has a dynamic effect. We are fully aware of the reality, the difficulties faced by citizens and especially those affected by either pandemic or natural disasters. Amendment No 1045 is also in line with this and with a special number of 71 tabled by the Ministry of Finance by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is currently being discussed in plenary. This amendment contains two specific articles. The first article is linked to the discharge from HNPH and for the year 2021 of the real estate located in the areas of the Attica Region and the Corinthian Regional Unit affected by the fires on 23 and 24 July of 2018. For the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, it is known that an exemption has been granted for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. The government, however, considered that the conditions imposed by these people's support have not been differentiated, that the consequences for the citizens who saw their properties have not been completely compromised. That is why we have proceeded with the extension of the HNVO discharge for the firefighting citizens of the regions concerned and for the year 2021. It is a substantial measure of support and tax relief. The second article of the amendment is linked to the extension of the deadline for the submission of tax declarations, which was established so that all citizens can be facilitated and consistent with their obligations. The provisions contained in Article 2 of the Amendment are hereby extended until 10 September to include the deadline for the submission of tax returns for tax year 2020 for natural persons and legal persons or legal entities referred to in Article 45 of the Income Tax Code, whose tax year expires on 31 December 2020. At the same time, the timeframe for payment of the income tax is extended. In particular, the tax will be paid in eight monthly instalments, the first two instalments being paid by 17 September. From there on, with regard to members of companies with simplified books, including, among other things, partners in joint ventures, public limited companies or urban companies, they have the opportunity to deposit their tax declaration by 15 September and to pay the first instalment by 30 September 2021. These are regulations aimed at facilitating citizens and businesses. In the same direction, the institutional intervention carried out by the Government last July for the payment of HICP in six instalments was initiated, with the first being paid by the end of September. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the content of the amendment is a field of understanding and agreement between all the political forces and that can also be expressed in its vote. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the government is constantly updating its institutional interventions with measures aimed at supporting citizens and returning to normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Papariga has the floor now. The next speaker will be Mr Neocles Cretan from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u236	Although I think that yesterday's reform is not even worth discussing today in the House, which has a literally black bill on supplementary social security. However, I was begged by the previous speaker and I would like to say that as things have evolved both in the recent past and today and as they will evolve and in the course it has been shown that the passage from one party to another between parties, which have the same strategy, regardless of their opposition to who will govern, is a cigarette road. The word 'apostasy' makes no sense to anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, when I begin to testify in the Minutes the consequences of the reinsurance reforms in three countries, in Germany, Sweden and England, because we are talking about insurance reforms, which are in the same sense, with measures taken in the recent past and in the final and, of course, with the current government bill. This is not for anything else, but because both the New Democracy is idealizing the European Union and brings it as an example of what must be done in Greece and why the other parties, which "fire" the New Democracy bill - and well they do the "fire" - have as a starting point that what is done in Greece in the New Democracy for example is a product of the idealism and dogmatism of the New Democracy and its neoliberal perception, an argument that the New Democracy used against SYRIZA rule. So I put it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandra Papapiga, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] In addition, I will table another text in the Minutes, because it is important not only for today's bill, which will unfortunately be passed, but for tomorrow's bill too. The Communist Party of Greece never stopped combining the fight against a bill, into a law, but linking it to how it started and where it went. Because that's very important. We therefore have the views of the subsidiary, the reform of supplementary pensions in Australia. You will tell me 'but, here we are Europe. What are you going to Australia?" But it's global. After all, the so-called'reforming of the social security system' and what we call social security as a product of holding employees' contributions in substance - all the contributions are employees - or subsidiary form is a process - which is how it started - of the World Bank. Neither Europe started from Africa nor has it even started from Australia. Of course, this study was carried out on this basis, and it was accepted - it would probably have been entrusted to the World Bank - by all the Member States of the then EEC and by the United States and other states. So I'm going to read you a quote. Of course this article perfects the supplementary insurance system, because that is of course the objective. But now look at the reality. I'm saying this because the so-called T.E.A., right? - which is happening today will be undergoing new reforms and new subsidiary insurance systems will be introduced, which will be working on financial markets with managers. It says: 'The Australian case is a typical example of the perfect competition which exists among the many forms of subsidiary insurance'. "On the one hand," says "we have a hundred and seventy-nine small, medium-sized and large enterprises, competing in order to attract employees' subsidiary contributions and on the other hand, we have almost six thousand supplementary pension funds, which operate with less than five insurers. This market is so perfectly competitive that practicable competition leads with certainty to the following results..." on which what does it say? Of course there is a risk there, but there is - it says - a regulatory authority that makes the rules of competition. We have a great deal of experience in the European Union and global about what free competition means, what regulators of competition and so on and so on. Thus, in this way, the ancillary fund reserves largely finance investment and the growth of the economy. In this way, workers become joint owners of enterprises, which are financed and understood that the interests of capital go hand in hand with their own interests. This is a social arrangement in which citizens, the country and democracy are all won. That's it. After all, the other parties in anti-population say that we are struggling to reduce social inequalities, that is to say, the exploitation of class and what we are interested in, is with different terminology to reduce social inequalities. Not only are they reduced, but they're widening. I would therefore like to say this because that is where the famous TEA is going to go. We're starting at the T.A.A. and where are we going? [[At this point, the Member, Alexandra Papapiga, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In that sense, I would like to remind you of this. I do not want to repeat everything that has been said against the party's parliamentary group, but if you like the other parties have used the same arguments as us, because it is easy to fight this bill, but to overthrow it, to cancel it in Parliament and to change governments is not at all possible. After all, I do not think the opposition directed to New Democracy has this objective. I will simply use the fact that the degradation, the overthrow of the social security system has a past. It did not happen in the circumstances of the capitalist economic crisis. Not that we would justify it, but in any case, there was one argument. When did she start? Or maybe I should say it different. In 1979, the supplementary insurance system was formed, it was organised, it acquired a single organisational character, despite the fact that there were hundreds of separate subsidiary funds. The sweater starts in 1990. That's how it starts. It starts slowly. Proteins here, New Democracy has enough, there's PASOK. And when I hear Mrs Gennamas talk about PASOK's contribution to social policy, I think that no, it's not a matter of lack of memory at all. Anyway. In 1990 what did New Democracy do? He took a first step. He got out of collective bargaining for the sectoral collective agreement the pension. Until then in the sectoral negotiations and depending on the course of a sector's struggle, pensions went in. He took that off. Is that or isn't that a first step? Don't tell me these steps are by ideology, that it starts at the head of a prime minister, whether he's called Mitsotakis, whether his name is Papandreou or his name is Tsipras, etc. Oh, no. It specialises in the needs of capital and guidelines of the European Union in any case. In 1992, there is a second step, which seems to be beautiful and well forged by the workers, that part of social security should not be implemented through collective insurance, which companies do with private insurance companies? It wasn't that innocent. Then we were told as a party "Aman, what dogmatics you are! What is the problem next to the state social security system for a businessman to do as well as a group with private companies?' It was part of this perspective. As for what one is saying about each other, the ministers are incapable, and it is incapable of the Minister to be. Then in 2012 we have what we call 'private professional funds'. But the law we are discussing today also has the Kutruman law, see PASOK, and the Katrugalu law, see SYRIZA. If you sit down and put everything in order, you'll see that everyone added something either we had a capitalist economic crisis or it was the period different. In this respect, then, another conclusion is drawn. Indeed, it took Greece thirty years to get to today's bill, and "see what I have for next" says New Democracy. Why was he delayed? Because there were games. I remember that in 1990, 1991, there were major competitions. Not everyone may have had the deepest direction they needed, they were entangled in the confrontation of the New Democracy and the PASOK. Still, there's been a fight. They happened then. What happened? Delay in taking measures and that is a profit for the workers. Why look to see, conquests within this rotten class exploitation system can always exist behind the demands and needs of the workers. There is no acquis. There is no final agreement in the conditions of this system. So we are interested, to tell you clearly, what is going on tomorrow, not in the 'Monday Presence', literally what is going on tomorrow. We believe that today there is accumulated political experience in the workers, social experience, regardless of how things look at them, so that not only can they fight against the consequences of one or the other law, but that the social alliance, its full independence from the parties, which are defended either by left slogans or by neoliberally defending this rotten social system, is reconstructed. Only in this way can the working people's movement be found ready and with its alliance, because other measures will come and we will also have other developments in social security and, more generally, social policy. For us, then, there is tomorrow, for you in this House tomorrow is the poll, who will take advantage of the deterioration of the government, what will take place in the next elections. Of course it's an election fighting element. But tomorrow will not be judged by what will happen in the polls, but by what will happen until then. From this point of view, we have confidence and hope that accumulated social and political experience will literally be redeemed by the terrorism of the New Democracy on the sustainability of the insurance system, but also by the error and delusion of the SYRIZA. You know, it doesn't matter if you ruled twenty or three and a half years that it was SYRIZA. The good day is seen from the morning, what policy you have, what programme, what strategy you have, what is your attitude to capital, what is your attitude to the European Union? That's where it's decided. Of course, if you rule three years, you'll do less. If you rule 20 years, you'll do more. Is that the point? So we're interested in the next day. For the time being, we have a mobilisation in the Constitution today, but that is not enough. Defense fights are worth it. We've done too, and we've supported defensive struggles, so they don't get any conquests. But one is the aggressive struggle. This fight that is not limited to fighting against one or the other government, but puts a target on it and reveals the capitalist system itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u237	We continue with the list of speakers. We invite Mr. Cretan Neocles from New Democracy and then Mr. Cretan. Mr. Poldas Andreas will follow from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u238	First of all, good month from me. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the need to improve the supplementary insurance system is not a reform, for which we must oppose or poison public political speech. It is a reform that needs to be carried out, in order to have a sustainable system, a supplementary insurance system for the next generations. This reform comes as a follow-up to the Brutsi Act on Main Pensions, of Law 4670, which was a real incision, as it dissociated income from the amount of contributions, giving freedom and option of choosing the insurance grade. We went through a new era and all the people of the market confess it, the free traders, businessmen, the people of society who pay their insurance contributions. It was high time, then, that we created a more modern system of insurance, a system that meets the modern requirements and needs of society and of workers. The existing distribution system could no longer work. The reason is simple. The Minister mentioned it earlier. The proportion of pensioners to workers has changed radically. In the 1960s, the ratio was one to six, and today the ratio is a pensioner to 1,7 employees. No matter how much a worker pays, he cannot meet the pensioner's pension requirements. In the face of this need, we are proposing the solution of the individual pigeon, the main element of the insurance reform, a system which is implemented in many modern European countries, which they have created before being faced with such problems. With the individual money there will be greater control over the hands of young insured persons, the system will become a capitalisation, a reform which will result in significantly higher pensions for young insured persons up to 68%, and it is certain that old insured and retired people are not affected. Some elements, which were also mentioned by the Minister and by other colleagues, but I think it is important that they should be repeated once again to reflect the arguments of gambling, the invasion of individuals, neoliberal practices, and I shall mention again. The reserve, i.e. the funds of the new insured, will manage the new state Treasury under public law under the short name TECA, as we have said. There will also be three investment profiles among which he will choose insured: the preservative, the balanced and the aggressive one, and the possibility of a five-year change. This system applies to advanced countries such as Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and has been shown to lead to higher supplementary pensions from 43% to 68%. I was working in such a system, Minister, and that was the insurance policy. So there will be a double safety net. The first will concern young people, with the guarantee of the public of non-negative performance. The second will concern the payment of supplementary pensions for old insured persons with an explicit guarantee in the new law. The proportional study has included all demographic forecasts. The total cost of transition is estimated at 120 million. In the face of the toxic ratio of counter-population, which I continue to say is gambling and privatization of social security, again poisoning the public word for dialogue, I will compare two phrases: the first is democratic Robert Kennedy, who said: 'The progress is a good word, but what creates it is changing and changing has many enemies', ladies and gentlemen. It is true that giving people the opportunity to create and control their pensions is a great change. The second sentence comes from Arthur Clark, a British science fiction writer, who said: "If the insight of the Greeks was in line with their genius, then perhaps the Industrial Revolution would start a thousand years ago before Columbus and then we would not try to walk around the Moon simply, but we would have reached other nearby planets." Instead of talking today about progress, change, development and new planets, we are trying to convince you of a reform that has been implemented in other modern European countries and which has only positive results. It is true that, somewhere in history, insight and genius were divorced to the Greeks and we are forced today to rediscover the wheel from the beginning. Today's bill is a great reform that will turn the insurance system into a sustainable and fair system for future generations, for young people, for our children, who, ladies and gentlemen, are both perceptive and intelligent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u239	We now invite Mr. Poulla Andreas from the Change Movement. Until you take the floor, I would like to inform the House that today's sitting, as you know, as agreed this morning at the beginning of the debate on the bill, we set it about one morning at an end. This means on the basis of calculations that it will be completed - this is the objective and I am announcing it to you, so that the Members who are missing will know at that time - and the sixth cycle. I mean, we're definitely going up to the end of the sixth cycle. Tomorrow we will continue with the next speakers from the seventh cycle. Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again experiencing a difficult time for our country, with the pandemic being at work and society being disappointed by governmental manipulations in the field of fires and the enormous disasters they have caused. To add the malfunction to the country's health structures because of the suspension of work of invasive health because the government actually did not have and has no plan to deal with this situation. You did not give the sanitaries any room, essentially underestimating their offer in the first wave of pandemic, which was the blockage and the wall of protection for the whole society. You have done nothing more to convince and lift the reservations these people have. Without a trace of self-criticism and an unnecessarily displaying force you have resorted to threats, ultimatums, without impairing the weakness of the ERS and public health structures by staff, with the prospect of covering the gaps from the free market. Is it now time, with the change in leadership of the Ministry of Health that you changed your rigid attitude to health and bend over their real problems, to which you have so far not responded? The only thing that is of interest to the Government of New Democracy is how it will come out of the problems that agitate the country today, with only communication and not substance. A characteristic is yesterday's fiasco of reformism and a choice by the Prime Minister that made the government even more conservative, aiming to highlight the most right wing in the New Democracy. The government today brings a bill to the vote, which is not only a political priority, but also has dubious efficiency, because what it actually does is to bet the insurance contributions of young workers in return for an extremely questionable profit. In great words and heavy declarations, it promises, once again, rabbits with rocks and give fruitfruits hopes, especially in the new generation. Unfortunately, however, once again, it is out of reality and above all outside society. Legislation for young insured persons and workers up to thirty-five years of age without them being sufficiently informed, as you have chosen to avoid social fermentation, exhaustive dialogue with social actors and consensus as required by long-term policies in such a sensitive sector, such as management of insurance contributions and ensuring decent pensions. Gentlemen of the government, have you been investigating whether young people are aware of the question of subsidiary insurance and what is awaiting them in the coming years? In addition, you are coming in a virtuous way and without the consent of the European Union to your plans, and you are proposing the introduction of individual money in the framework of subsidiary insurance and the establishment of the Capital Insurance Fund. This is how you put another stone - not to say a rock - on the building of privatisation of everything or even as many sectors of the public sector as you can afford. So enter private insurance companies from the ancillary insurance window, in order to later put them from the door. In fact, this is a deregulation of a fragmentary nature, as it is not accompanied by a comprehensive revision of the insurance structure. Any benefits you invoke are directly dependent on insecure international factors and on wider economic conditions. In particular: First of all, the new system is compulsory for young insured persons, but without taking into account the large proportion of undeclared work and the economic impact of alternative forms of work, such as parttime work and rotating work. You give no argument about how you will convince the workers who are moving in the undeclared job to choose to be insured. Secondly, the hybrid ancillary insurance system, which is introduced, depends on the stability of the international economy, but also on the existence of stable positive growth rates of the national economy. In the event of negative scenarios, the insured will lose their insurance contributions, while the State will pay them the guaranteed amount of supplementary pension, which will not be much different from the current one, while in order to cover the costs either the tax will increase or the insurance contributions will be increased. Therefore, promises to increase supplementary pensions by 68% are probably in the air. Thirdly, the results of the new system will appear in the long term, and yet, after 2030. So, once again the cost of an experiment in the next generations. The improvement of the demographic problem is in no way linked to the implementation of the new system. Fourthly, the conditions for the functioning of the new measure are the establishment of a strict institutional framework, the independence of the fund's operation by state interventions, the accountability of its administration and the presentation of responsibilities. The experience of using the insurance funds reserves to date does not provide us with optimism and institutionality, your proposal does not inspire confidence in the insured. Fifthly, the government's expectations of increased growth and an improvement in the country's economic model are not verified so far. Inequality in the labour market, low incomes and anemic economic activity continue, resulting in the model you propose being undermined by reality itself. Sixthly, it is clear that the cost of transitioning the scheme to 20 billion for disability pensions and widow's pensions will follow the operation of the newly created fund, maintaining the state's obligation to cover it. Seventhly, the budgetary cost of the new system in the national economy is unknown, because we do not yet know whether or not its cost will be calculated by EUROSTAT within a government. There is, therefore, the risk of a new increase in public debt, while the economy and society have not yet recovered from the economic crisis in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government is losing its contact with society and its needs more and more. It works authoritatively and without dialogue, implementing its liberal account in a country that neither the economy lifts it nor the citizens. In the field of insurance, you are working in favour of markets and private interests, without the institutional impurities in favour of the weak, maintaining and clearly increasing your governance. Legislation as if you are not in Greece at the time of pandemic and above all, you rule by underestimating the intelligence of citizens with promises and expectations without opposition. Your bill is proof of government arrogance, your ideological neoliberal obsessions, your targeted choice in favour of privatisation, the retreat of the state in favour of the free market, your conservative repulsives and your removal from society and its needs. For all these reasons, we are voting against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u241	The next speaker is MP Mr Charalampos Papaderiou from New Democracy. Mr. Kalamatianos, Mr. Ceridis and Mr. Giokas will be followed. You have the floor, Mr. Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too wish the children back in their schools. It's time. I should like to wish the students, too, for them and the young students, of course, to return to the amphitheatres and workshops. To keep a good news that unemployment was 14.6% in June, which spent 16.8% in the same month last year. I would remind those who have a short memory, after giving me this opportunity, that if the insurance policy had been caught to solve it in the 1980s instead of dissolving it, as it has been done, we would not be discussing anything today, because what the government is now proposing to introduce, would have already happened. If the Mitsotakis Government - not this one, but Constantine Mitsotakis - had taken the opportunity to complete the work faster, we would also have practically completed the rescue of the insurance system. And, when and when it came to us - which would not come to us - the big crisis of 2009 or even come, would not have the consequences that we had. Because at 15 billion additional burdens on the pension system every year, you realize how quickly public debt is being increased. Nevertheless, it is my duty to remind and honor George Souflia thanks to his endurance at the time. For one and a half months, there were too many people gathered under his office, here, in Syntagma Square, and yet he arranged the rescue of the insurance system at that time, with the Government of Constantine Mitsotakis. Unfortunately, afterward, Mr. Simitis did not have the courage to continue. He made a first small effort with Mr Reppa in 1998, until we arrived, of course, at the huge failure of Janitsi, in 2000, for which much could be said, but time is little. More generally, what we need to understand is that at the moment we are taking out a piece of what they need. I fear that many of you, dear and dear of the Opposition, have not spoken with a new man to explain to him what the insurance system is, because it is worth working on the 'white' market and not on the 'black' market, because he deserves to pay his contributions and because he deserves to control his employer that he also pays the contributions. There is an end to the political games with the ancillary, political and trade unions. I would like to remind you that the structured bonds - which a colleague mentioned earlier on the hood - were a trade union decision. Fortunately, the Karamanlis government has covered the damage in full. No one lost money then. I mean, then, that this game 'give the employees where we want them, give the other team a small increase' has been cut and will be cut once every worker knows that his money is his and will be seen in his account. Do you, when you enter from your phone, in the application, wherever you want or with your booklet, go to the bank and say that you have within 5,000, 6,000, 12,000 euros, do you feel insecurity? You're saying: "You're wondering if I have them, or are the insurance guys gonna take them for me?" No, you feel a security, except, of course, always from a huge risk, which one can never say does not exist, as in 2015. So the new system works exactly the same way. We don't have to find anything great and terrible. What we are doing is exempting and giving young people a guarantee that "your money will remain yours" and that is extremely important and we must convince them about it. If we convince them, we will also be able to exalt the labour market to a very large extent. We will be able to bring them closer to the labour market and progress. The new system proposed by the Ministry has much smaller risks. I wonder why you're so afraid of real life. But, well, you didn't see that in the 2008-2009 crisis in the United States when the insurance was paid off, their positions were dismantled, the state went in and rescued them. Not even a pension is lost. That is what Hatzidakis now says and you do not believe him: the state says he will be here and come and vote. Why don't you vote for this article? It's a guarantee. It's an absolute guarantee. You say you want the state to be everywhere. Okay, but here we say he'll be there. At least vote for this. Because if you compare returns on capitalist systems, you'll see they're better. I do not think there is anyone you are going to discuss - ask the young people - who will not tell you that pensions outside the other states are better. Why are they better? For this reason, because they have refined their systems and because they have gone to a capitalisation system much earlier. Mr. Giannitsis, as I mentioned him, writes in a recent article: "It is positive that there will be a possibility of investing the savings of the Fund in foreign securities and not just state securities of the interior, which in the 2009 crisis caused the collapse of the Funds." So I think that you are also on the side of the reaction and backwardness, and it is a pity that we cannot agree on this, which would be better and show Parliament's greater confidence in how things are going in the world, if we were at least to agree to go through a system together. You must not forget that in Greece at least two funds since the beginning of 2000 - I do not know how they were rescued - but were rescued and continued to work. They were capitalist and continued their performance, even after the huge crisis that we passed, because they mainly invested in Greek bonds and well done, where they lost one of them almost 30%. This same thing, which closes twenty years of life in a short time, has 146% return. So, here you are wrong, and it's just arguments. The other thing we keep saying, that pensions are being released from demographic risk, is extremely important and I wonder about opposition, which, while seeing some dynamics how we can restore demographic risk by receiving and integrating workers from other states, does not see that this risk is real and we must tackle it, first of all, with our own people, with our own citizens, with our young people. The redistributive system does not work without a heavy tax. We will keep what we need to keep, the basic pension, its funding from the state budget, but we must finally let it breathe and we should be there together. It's a shame we're not. The current system you know is a burden to the state budget intolerable. Right now, anyone asks that bookings are tax. Here, workers do not know well - that their real money is the entire reward together and the reservations, the so-called employees, together with the reservations of the employer. That's his reward. He pays the company the whole package for his work together. They have not yet understood this, and at the same time we say "you will pay more, because you will pay taxes, so that the pension can be paid". In short, when we keep saying 'payed more, he paid even more taxes', we disappoint them. This is a move, of course - I understand that that is why you do not want to agree - on this majority policy: less taxes, transparency in economics, confidence in the citizen and his work. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Kalamatianos Dionysius has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the privatisation of subsidiary insurance once again demonstrates that the government fears public dialogue, fears dialogue with society, because it plays hidden with the truth. You say you are interested in supplementary pensions for the future. But let's see what you've done in the recent and the final past. I will not deal so much with your time-consuming responsibilities, as an exception, with the situation in which the insurance system is located, with the management of the funds and reserves of the funds. I'll say four specific facts to figure out what you've done. With a government in New Democracy money was placed in structured bonds. By Government of New Democracy there have been horizontal cuts in supplementary pensions with Law 4052/2012 and Law 4093/2012. These are the laws that were considered unconstitutional by the Council of State and retrospectively await pensioners. You cut the third and fourteenth pensions in 2012, two whole supplementary pensions by pensioners. Did you introduce in 2012 the zero deficit clause, which was foreseen? That there will be an automatic reduction in supplementary pensions where there is a difference between contributions and amounts granted as a pension. Did you in 2012 introduce the infamous death clause, which it predicted? That at the time of retirement the insured person had to declare whether or not to transfer his pension to the widow and to the children in order to receive a higher supplementary pension. So what you have done in the recent past is coming today and you say that you are interested in supplementary pensions. So let's see what you're doing now. What's the central idea of the system you bring? The central idea is that from the very beginning of solidarity between generations, that is to say, the current members of the pensioners' pensions, we are going to create the individual pigeon. Who will automatically pay the pensions of today's 50th and 40th? In short, who will pay the cost of the transition to the new system? This cost, you yourself say in your proportionate study that it will be from EUR 56 to EUR 70 billion. At the moment, the country's debt amounts to 385 billion. Do you understand how much you cost the state budget and how you open up public finances? It is worth, you say, all this cost, just to capitalise subsidiary insurance, to satisfy your ideological obsession and serve the private interests that will manage these resources. Why are you burning to privatise public subsidiary insurance and, of course, to play the future of the next generations in financial markets? The logic of capitalisation means that the sums of the individual money will be invested by a group of experts. That's what your bill provides for. Who are these experts? They are the investment companies that will invest in various money market products. You know that the results of these so-called new ideas are often painful for both insured and retired people. You know they've collapsed companies that gambled this money. What happened to the money of the insured in both America and Greece? They're gone. Who's covering this loss? You yourself come and say that this loss will be covered by the public budget. The public will pay again the taxpayers. What do we have? Privatisation of profits and socialisation of losses and losses. The easy solution you propose in your experiments is to pay the Greek taxpayer clearly. But as soon as this bill is passed, the bill goes to our low pensioners and our poorest fellow citizens. Why is that? The bill provides that the expenditure of 0.5% of GDP in the social budget, to be paid as a social dividend to the low-pension workers, is to cover this hole, that is to say, the sum that we have given as the thirteenth pension for the partial restoration of the cuts that you have made - I have described it before - will now cover the gap that you have created with your choices. EUR 900 million per year is being cut from the poor and low pensioners to finance, of course, the Golden Boys who will gamble on insurance contributions to the stock exchanges. You say that your change allegedly favours the insured and supposedly covers supplementary pensions due to the ageing of the population. But the truth is that none of these two will happen. Young insured people will be asked to pay twice this new system because first, they will pay individually with their contributions to create the individual money and will also pay as taxpayers to cover the cost of transition and the payment of the current and future pensioners with the old system. Demographic data, of course, are data. Because this capitalisation system has both the demographic risk and the risk of crises on the financial markets and the capital markets and the risk of achieving high returns on investment to be efficient. Minister, you know that these experiments you are doing are not original, they have been tested in many countries and in Europe and in the rest of the world. What happened? The eighteen of these thirty countries that made the transition - not from the outset in this system - were forced to return either to the distribution system or to a system of intellectual capitalisation, which is now also in force in the country. Why did they do that? Because in practice they have found that this new system, the capitalisation that you are going to implement, does not give adequate pensions, does not have sufficient returns, but also creates very great burdens on the state budget and taxpayers. You take the decision to blow everything off while you and Mr. Brutsi celebrated the system a year and a half ago. He said he guaranteed the viability of the system by 2070. You celebrated, you voted for it. What's changed? What's going on? Mr Tsakloglu as a professor then also signed the relevant study of the viability and adequacy of the system. What happened and it changed? Why are you doing all these dangerous alchemys while you said it was all too much right? This bill is therefore an incomprehensible, obsolete, failed and inappropriate initiative, an initiative that mines every prospect of exiting the country from the social and economic crisis. It is an initiative involving the risk of loading our country again with a new memorandum. It creates a huge hole in public finances. The new insurance money is perforated, it is an outbreak of risks, it is an outbreak of corruption, opacity and it poses huge risks to the future of our country. On the opposite side of this policy are our values and our own principles for public social security. We believe in the principles of social justice, social solidarity. We believe in the public distributive universal social security system. We believe that the public system supports both development and social cohesion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u245	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u246	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending. We believe in strengthening the public system and with resources, and with staff, and with logistical infrastructure, and with fair and safe management of the reserves. We believe that the insured must receive decent pensions in a short time. We believe in strengthening labour rights. We believe in eight hours. We believe in increasing the minimum wage. We believe in stable and well-paid jobs, because that is the basis for the sustainability of the system. The insured and the retired have figured out what you want to do. They have realised that you are acting obsessively neoliberal, outdated, failed practices to serve domestic and international private interests. All together, workers, insured, pensioners, farmers, the new generation will stop your efforts to undermine the rights of the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u247	The next speaker is Mr Dimitrios Ciridis from New Democracy. Mr. Giokas will follow and the third circle of speakers will be closed with Mr. Vitsa. Mr. Catherides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. There are many pathogens that have troubled our country over the last few decades and have turned it from an example of growth to the golden age of economic growth, the first 30 years of post-Morocco 1950-1980, for example to avoid after 1980 in the 30-year period 1980-2010, which ultimately led to bankruptcy. None of them, however, is more important than that of the insurance company. All our experts say that insurance was the main cause of the country's budget derailment if we want to be honest. You tell us that you do not govern before 2010, and you do not have a responsibility, while we are coming right away and say that here there is a total political responsibility over time, and let us be the only party that dared a tough insurance reform in 1992 Souflia - Sifas in government of the late Constantine Mitsotakis, in order to save what we could and give the insurance time. The only party that dared it before 2010! You tell us you didn't rule. However, some of you have ruled, and because it is fashionable to talk about apostates, I see a number of apostates on the headquarters of Officerial Response, but I do not want to say about it. Did those who did not govern you resist fiscal populism and insurance populism before 2010 or was there a force to speed up this derailment? When the others gave one of you, didn't you ask to give two and three and five and ten? Which one of you - why is it that every scoundrel will go to his bench - before 2010 he set up his stature, gentlemen, Officers, and he wrote an article, a paragraph, a proposal, a word on fiscal derailment and insurance populism, which ultimately led us to bankruptcy? Bring me a proposal from you, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, if you have the moral stature to represent the baby virgins, that you have no responsibility, and the party, which brought reform, '92 has everything. You guys don't! Here, we're kidding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u249	Come on, de!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u250	And I dare now, although I have not done detailed research, to say, Mr. Skourletis, but I am 100% sure there is not a single article from any of you in Civicism, which stands up to populism before 2010. So, cut off lies and fairy tales. Don't be fooled. I'm coming to second. I'll talk about three things. I will not go into the details and details of the insurance reform. This was done in detail both in the Commission and in plenary by the Minister and the Secretary-General responsible, from the information notes, from the papers on television and press. However, because I believe in parliamentary dialogue, and I believe that we should not come with canned and prepared talks, but build on what has been heard and discuss with each other in detail, I come to the second. You told us about the viability of the insurance policy. It's a sustainable insurance policy. He doesn't need any reform. Really, do you know letters? Do you read what you're voting on? In your budgets, 2015-2019, how much billion did you subscribe to as a state subsidy from taxes and not from contributions to support insurance? Do you know or fall out of clouds like baby virgins - is the day today - that our country budgetaryly supports the insurance most of any other country in Europe and I dare tell the world as well? No country gives 10% and 12% of its GDP this year, 16 billion last year, 17 billion, 18 billion on average over the last decade to support insurance. This is not an insurance policy because it is not financed by contributions. It is at least half financed, not to say two thirds tax. It's the financial insurance policy of our country. It's not just unsustainable. It's been turned a long time ago and you've been doing that you don't know, you haven't heard, you've never read it. The data are - to be honest - and they keep getting worse. Why? You don't even know that? Demographic never heard of it? Is it not a problem across Europe, especially in southern Europe, especially in countries like Greece? Are you falling out of the demographic clouds? Should nothing be done about this, as has been done throughout the rest of Europe? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm on my way to third. We give the most to support pensions proportionally and we have nothing - or almost nothing - for other social costs. 90% of social expenditure in our country concerns pension support, so that we do not have opportunities for more in other critical areas, which need social support, so that the economy goes there and in the end we do not have pensions and pensions are at risk. At least that is the view of our young people who, in their overwhelming majority, are not going to be retired. So we need to do something. I'll come to the next one. Much has been done over the past decade, huge cuts. If they hadn't, budget support would have been plus 30 billion. Instead of giving 15 million and 16 million we should give 45 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, substantial reform - I am ending - did not take place at the core of insurance. He remained practically redistributive. So now, in 2021, by honouring the election commitment of the New Democracy Government, we boldly move on to a very important reform. I am very pleased to vote personally and to take part in this governmental majority that brings it. That is why we have been elected, not for simple management, but for the large areas that our country needs. It is a well-balanced, mild reform, which concerns less than 10% of total insurance expenditure. It concerns young people or under thirty-five and only the subsidiary. In other words, we maintain mixed character and follow the example of the rest of Europe. We're the last of us to do it. Is Europe a bad thing? We've heard that too. Here, we're going crazy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u251	Come on, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u252	I will tell you and with all due respect to the former Secretary-General: Europe, whether we like or do not like it, has the greatest social expenditure from the rest of the world together. If we consider Europe to be socially abstract, I will inform you - if you do not know that at last - that the rest of the seven billion people on the planet have access to less social expenditure than the five hundred million Europeans. That's the reality. We prefer to compare to Sweden and Germany. What do you want me to say? Can I tell you about Africa, China, Cuba? Can I challenge it? Should I say North Korea? So Europe is the model. He's in trouble. There's deficits. Let's make it better. Comparatively, however, it remains, especially socially, far ahead of anyone else. And as the others have gone ahead, we owe it to our young people to go ahead, to guarantee that they have a pension, first and second, an insurance policy that operates in investment and gives growth and perspective to the place. Thank you very much. Minister, I congratulate you on the initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u253	Mr Ioannis Giokas has the floor. Then Mr. Vitch will talk. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u254	Again, Mr. Catherides did not ask retired people to say "I'm sorry" and to return retroactively the pensions they have been receiving for so many years. That's all we didn't hear. The reason for the speech was that. Again, we did not hear that return retroactively to the pensions that they have been receiving for so many years, because it was supposedly insurance populism, the rights that were in existence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing another deeply reactionary bill of government, the third in order of such importance, in the summer. Prior to the Territorial Bill for Work. In the summer, the Kerameus bill on education was followed by the government's bill on the privatisation of subsidiary insurance. Three bills, which essentially one is the follow-up of the other and which focus not only on young people, but mainly on young people. The young man who, from the youngest age, will face educational degradation and classification, oriented towards temporary skills, is the same person who, as a working party tomorrow, will have to learn to live and work with wasted hours, with individual contracts in a continuous work tripling and long-term unemployment. He's also the one who, as an insurer and a future pensioner, is going to go without any insurance rights, but with an individual pigeon, who doesn't know if, when, and what pension he's going to get. That is why we say that one bill is complementary to another, because the thread that connects these laws is precisely that, that there are no collective, grouped, universal rights, education, labour, insurance. Everything is an individual case of each and every one of them and all there is is is the jungle of competition and the full uncertainty about whether to be educated and how a young man, what if he will study, whether he will find a job in his subject matter, on what terms he will work, though and when he will be able to retire. This is your society and the future you are preparing. These bills, in addition to the tragic consequences they have, have a distinct ideological aim, the consolidation of the logic of individual responsibility, the individual risk, and the logic that the interests of investors and entrepreneurs are also the interests of the workers. Because that's exactly what you're doing with the bill. Workers will no longer be considered as insured, but investors, who will be forced to gamble their life-long labors on the various stock exchange lotteries and see their sweat become a financial instrument of capitalist development. That is why any assurances you give about supposedly a state guarantee of supplementary pensions and contributions are unsettled. Because you referred, Minister, to your speech and to the myths, to see the story. The same guarantees you give today were given by governments after the 1950s, when by law the funds' reserves were placed in interest-free accounts at the Bank of Greece and financed the capitalist development of that period. The same guarantees were given by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK in the 1990s and 2000s when they legislated on the opportunity for the funds to gamble on the stock market. The same guarantees as you were given by the governments of PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA, saying that the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions, EASA, the limits and the amount of pensions, etc. are not threatened. When the myths then collapsed, when capital and European Union plans began to be more aggressively implemented, then the justifications for demographic ageing, population ageing, for the sustainability of insurance for, for, for, as if they were not your policies that are preventing a new couple from having a family today. Either there is the new fruit of the European Union for active ageing, as if it were a privilege, based on the evolution and potential of society itself, for people to be able to enjoy more years off work, but they should be working to the grave. As much as the guarantees of these governments were, your guarantees today, that is, nothing, much more so than the new Assistance Insurance Fund will be operating by definition as an investment fund to finance capital. But, Minister, even if we accept your assurances that the state budget will ultimately guarantee contributions, what exactly do you say about that? That after the insured's money has been disbursed, if the turn is done - which you do not exclude, and the simulation plans you're doing - will pay who? The budget, i.e. the taxpayers. "Koronas I win, I lose letters." The crows will always win and the workers will always pay, either as insured or as taxpayers. This is the plan you have with the new Auxiliary Insurance Fund. Leave the lies and the pageant promises. The problem with insurance over time is neither demographic nor technocratic nor narrow budgets. It's deep classic and deep political. It is that capital wants to reduce labour costs even further. He wants to put his hands on even this money intended for health, welfare, pension and they are a small part of the stolen value of the workers. As long as this ironic law of the barbaric system of exploitation, no wages, no working hours, no pensions, no right can and will never be guaranteed by any civil government. That is why the request for an even greater reduction in the price of the labour force is on top of the prerequisites for the Recovery Fund, which is the new memorandum for the people of Europe. That is why the parties that appear today disagree with the bill have put their own seal on this timely crime against pensions, benefits and social security systems, from the Change-PASOK Movement, which was identified as a party by gaming the funds into the stock exchange and enclosing them, up to SYRIZA, which not only adopted all the previous insurance laws, but also took them further than the Katraugalu Act, adopting the idea of capitalisation and the logic of individual money and which is now bound to BSE - as Mr Tsipras did a while ago - to reduce the so-called non-wage cost, which is the basis of the reinsurance reform so far. What can guarantee decent pensions, high levels of health and welfare benefits, which correspond to the current needs, but also to the possibilities of science, is only the struggle of the workers, is to organise and fight for exclusively publicly compulsory universal social security, and above all, to stop the labour force being a commodity sold and purchased, that is to say, for a society without exploitation, for a society that is focused on the fulfilment of modern popular needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u255	Mr Dimitrios Vitsas has the floor from SYRIZA and then we will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u256	Let some speakers still speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u257	We said before the start of the fourth cycle. If you wish to talk later, there's no problem. So we will continue the list of speakers. Mr. Spankis will talk later. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Put a few things in order, at least the way I see them. I adopt and copy from today's article by Thanasis Carteros: "It is politically coward, who at 12 noon praises for the services and his morality a dedicated servant of the country and at 1 after noon slanders him as a coward, because at the time he was intervening, he had the courage to say no to his buy-out policy and his voluntary conversion to puppets." Also, one of mine for Mr. Georgiadis: "We all wish that we do not come before a conflict, particularly military conflict, but that you all have something for sure. If he becomes Vangelis Apostolakis, he'll be in the front line. From the heroes of the keyboard I don't know how many will be in the country." And one more thing for us to be okay: "In the 200 years of independence of the country with its multi-changing history, SYRIZA ruled four and a half years. He took the country into a black mess, after a memorial and yes, he signed a third memorandum, but within three and a half years he took the country out of all three memorials and standing, and so all today they can verb against SYRIZA." That's all we need to know. We know that Mr Mitsotakis' government was from the outset and remains a special-purpose government, not neoliberal, which we say at one time, deeply right-wing government. The main reason for its existence is to implement a number of projects that are of interest to the government's large capital, a capital that does not produce, invest, develop, only consumes public wealth. The introduction of the so-called capitalisation system to subsidiary insurance and can follow you as well in main insurance and the creation of an ancillary insurance fund of the ECAA is one of the largest projects of this type. That is why, Mr Hatzidakis, you and Mr Mitsotakis, when he was temporarily suspended, because the European institutions did not see the government's estimates realistic, you immediately ran the message that nothing would stand in the way of your allegedly reforming work, to reassure the private interests to which supplementary insurance is delivered by this bill and, of course, that is why this bill took the form of an accelerated statement before the House closed down for the summer. Suddenly - if not all of a sudden - the Prime Minister also finds out that everyone worked well, although we had some misfortune we asked for and an apology, brother, is changing the ministers for health, fires, tourism and so on. What's hiding or not hiding anymore? The aim of the communication effort is to cover up, to hide Mr Mitsotakis' responsibilities. The government is increasingly battling on the right and is looking for outlets by making a false request for consent, waiting and preparing, because that is what you have left, sharing, managing European money. Listen to something very clearly: No consensus on your government's right-wing policy. The only solution that exists at the moment is to change both political and government. So here we are, and dare. This is also the case in this bill. The project called on you this time to implement Mr. Hadjidakis and Mr. Tsakloglou under the responsibility of Mr. Mitsotakis, as if they were well technocratic members of a private fund and not elected servants of public interest and society, is the violent change in the productive model for capital and against labour, the deregulation of labour and the further weakening of the social state. The result is, as it has always been, that Greece should be transformed into a cheap and precarious country of underdevelopment, in a poor country with no particular prospects in international labour distribution, in a country backwards, with a high number of unskilled young workers acting in permanent precarious conditions. It has been said before by colleagues from another political party - but I fully agree - that the last three bills are inextricably linked to one another, the draft law on education, this bill and go by saying. They are elements of a single policy. Do you know why? Why simply, this class of ours, this one of ours - how am I supposed to say it? - a post-practical urban class can only live through public funds. That is why you hand over the supplementary pensions of future generations to private speculation. This is the unknown Greece of Mr. Mitsotakis. Do you remember what he said in his first speech? That it will make Greece unknown. This is the unknown Greece. Unfortunately, Mr. Chacloglu is not here right now. Take note of what he said yesterday in committee: Greek society is ageing and even rapidly. The fertility rate, i.e. the average number of children born by women of childbearing age, is far below the number that would enable the population to be stabilised. At the same time, due to technological progress in health and hygiene, the expectation of survival has been growing steadily for many decades. Is that correct wording? Is that right? A little - very, yes. So someone would expect to continue in demographics. Mrs Fotio speaking this morning - I will not repeat what she said - she made concrete proposals, gave the framework, the basic elements of an integrated public policy on demographics, which affects everything and, of course, pensions. Instead of thinking as a government what will we do to reverse this bad demographic pattern, what do you suggest? I am rereading from yesterday's speech by Mr Tsakloglu, who said: 'These developments lead to a rapid increase in the ratio of dependency, i.e. the number of elderly people to working age or otherwise, if someone puts it, the ratio of retired workers'. Watch what you're saying. You're saying that in the next few decades, you predict that nothing will change except pensions. Is it possible for this thing to be called a study, to be called a scientific approach? Is this thing possible to be said? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Ciridis has now left for Europe, which is the first of all. What does Mr. Courides forget? That all this happened with struggles, they were made with governments progressive. One of the Communist Party of Greece will tell me about the Social Democratic Party, which we communists have also participated in. But now they're trying to get everything back. This is the process that is taking place. So you're going to be disobeyed in this process? Based on what you're saying and on the basis of the study you're giving us, you're telling us this, because you know if you put any other evidence, it'll get you other results, just as Mr. Brutsis has achieved. That was the point. Mr. Brutsis said the insurance policy was safe until then. He put some evidence and made it out for sixty years - like Cassandra - it will be sustainable. You put some evidence and say that it will not be sustainable. You don't look at demographics. You're not looking at the development needs of this country. You don't look at how we can make use of our workforce. You come and tell us how many years - in fifty years, in sixty years - we'll have a huge problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Vitsa, this is a warm request for you to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u260	I shall conclude, Mr President. What do we need? Fifty billion to complete for the public. You said it yourself, Mr. Hatzidakis, this morning. What's missing is going to put the public on it. Seventy say the others. I will later use a phrase that Mr Varoufakis says: a insured person, a worker, a taxpayer is basically the same person. The same person who works is taxed and paid social security. Don't make fun of one another or another. So, when money comes into the public service, it comes from the workers, from the taxpayers and when a higher public debt is created, that turns us - that is Mr Varoufakis - into a slavery. Are you suggesting the possibility with your own logic in a few years to have another Memorandum and another debt? The second thing I want to say is that it is public fund today, like the old OPAP, only that the old OPAP was private law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Vitsa, please very much. You've reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u262	Yes, I'll be right out, Mr. President. Of course, when they gambled at the OPCW, they did so voluntarily, they did not necessarily do so, as you do here. What are you doing? Forced gaming, forced looting and money in the possibility that Apollo Izmir wins Manchester City every year and that's how you can solve the issues. One last thing I want to say. I can't say it. Mr. Hatzidakis, you're Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. Isn't that right? Is it possible for your lips to come out here that young workers don't think they'll get retired and sit in your chair? Is that possible? I'm closing, Mr. President. I won't read the rest of my speech. Gentlemen, with this law the future of pensions, today of the subsidiary, tomorrow the gentlemen are at high risk. We will see to it that your plan is overturned and not on our own as a political party or the progressive Anti-Population Party, but on our own society. But the future of this government is certain: condemnation and political change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u263	The third circle of speakers is completed. We're going to move to the fourth circle of speakers. We invite Mr Spankis Vasiliou - Peter from New Democracy to Stepma. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Thanasis Pafilis will be speaking after Mrs Jackris. Here, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing in our country for decades now about insurance and, above all, about how it can be saved, how it can be improved in times, but also in money, that it is sustainable and, above all, that it is able to ensure a satisfactory standard of living for insured pensioners, which is equivalent to what they have as workers. It's a crucial issue. In particular, we are talking about young insured persons, who are also experiencing the greatest insecurity, an insecurity which is true, which is real. Yes - I have heard the previous speaker mention that - there is an insecurity, particularly in the new generation. The phrase 'I will never retire' is widespread among young people. In fact, it is a fact that we must stop for ourselves. This, as we understand it, creates a lot of problems from the general distrust towards the system to total depreciation and, of course, lead to black work many times with the choice of the worker himself. When the current system of insurance was established, the so-called 'distributive' about six decades ago, the proportion of retired workers was 4 to 1. And this ratio has been estimated to be the minimum required for the insurance and pensions to be viable. But today, given the serious demographic problem, which concerns not only our country, but much of the developed countries - the problem is very likely to be reversible - we understand that we cannot continue on the same path, we cannot continue on the same logic. The ministers said the ratio today is 1.7 to 1. For almost a year, twenty thousand new applications have been put into the system for pension applications every month. There are delays in the issue of pensions reaching two and three years and in some cases even five years. In December 2020, more than a hundred and sixty thousand major pensions were awaited. At the same time, there are many people who are wrong to believe that they are paying contributions for their own pension, so it is also guaranteed. Of course, this is not the case, as in the distribution system implemented in our country, youth contributions are used to pay the current pensions. The bill brought by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that we are discussing today comes to restore the injustice suffered by the new generation of workers and we must say it because we must tell the Greek people the truth, while at the same time this bill is a real, important and necessary reform of our insurance system. And just as his title is, it's a bill exclusively focused on the new generation of our country. But what changes, ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill? With a delay of many years, our country introduces for supplementary pensions exclusively for workers entering the labour market and optionally for workers up to thirty-five years a capitalist system, as many European countries have been applying for years, such as the Netherlands, like Sweden. Is this really what it means and how it will be implemented? By means of an individual pigment, the insurance contributions paid by the young worker himself are paid for the payment of his own supplementary pension. In addition, this money is invested. Yeah, it's not bad to invest the money. It's not a criminal offense to invest the money, of course. And as we will see below, the worker has choices in terms of investment programmes. He chooses investment projects himself. They are invested at the same time - look out - they are strengthening the Greek economy and we must not forget that. To this end, the Capital Insurance Fund is established, the so-called TEA, which we will hear from now on very often. The TECA is a legal person governed by public law. It is supervised by the Ministry of Labour, the National Accounting Authority, as well as by the Securities Committee and its operation starts in a few months, on January 2022. The administrative bodies, the selection process, staffing, responsibilities, responsibilities, penalties for members of the administrative bodies, the operating specifications are clearly described in the individual articles of this draft law and ensure the high quality of the organisation and functioning of the new fund. For example, in Article 12 - because we need to speak specifically in this Chamber - the procedure for selecting the board of directors is done by an open public procedure. The members shall be chosen by an independent committee adviser. A similar procedure shall be for the CEO as provided for in Article 24. It is very important that Article 8, which refers to the Fund's resources and emphasises that the grant from the State budget, in terms of its operating expenditure, has a transitional effect and is foreseen for a maximum of five years. Articles 17 and 18 define sanctions and the cessation of members of the Board of Directors, and Article 19 states that the members of the Board of Directors shall be appointed. they have criminal and civil liability for acts or omissions thereof, or if they have acted with deceit or serious negligence. Very important are the provisions of the third part, such as Articles 43 and 44, which regulate the issues of contributions, while the existing mechanism of e-ECA is defined as the existing mechanism of e-ECA, so that there is no additional cost to create a separate mechanism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if I can have your tolerance for a minute. Articles 47 and 48 concern the investment strategy and investment programmes, and Article 62 below describes the possibility of selecting a programme or a combination of programmes. Article 53 ensures that the insured person does not lose his contributions, the contributions he has paid, but will be reimbursed in the event of the non-fulfilment of fifteen years of insurance. Under Article 60, the State guarantees a minimum monthly supplementary pension, which may not be less than the contributions paid. Finally, Article 64 provides the possibility of creating a pension right through the redemption of the remaining time and to those who have completed at least twelve years of insurance, so that no one will lose the supplementary pension. In conclusion, because of today's opposition bill, words like "joy", "hard", "destruction" and more have been heard, I would like to point out that none of this really responds to the reality! Today's bill is a bill that brings justice, social justice, pensions. It brings a future and perspective for the new generation. Because the Mitsotakis Government, this government, is with young people in practice and not with words. And keep that, because I have heard a lot of comments. The New Democracy Government will have time for many reshuffles. However, policy is one and policy is stable: the policy of reducing taxes, increasing investment, increasing consumption and real income. Because only this government can ensure the future and prospects of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u265	Now Mrs Theodora Jacquez has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u266	The Prime Minister in his attempt to make a third, for the fourth time, reshaping, which they themselves presided over as a radical, structural, bottom-up, based, eventually, eventually resulted in a few micro-directions in the positions of some State Secretarys and General Secretarys and in the historical fiasco of the establishment and abolition of a ministry within just twenty minutes of the hour. In world political history, no such misunderstanding has ever arisen in the communication of the President of the Government with his candidate minister on the will, the true wish of the latter to participate in the government. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about such a lack of understanding at this preliminary level of formation, of the functioning of a government, one thing is certain, that there is not even a government. This draft law on the new capitalisation pillar of subsidiary insurance, which the government has been presenting as a Swedish model and which is being proclaimed, publishes that it will run until the doubling of supplementary pensions, particularly for young workers - in fact, in the midst of the individual carpet - is in fact just another failed policy, which has been coming from the past and, indeed, since the 1970s and, indeed, is based on the theory of individual responsibility which the Prime Minister has been promoting so successfully everywhere and always. Thus, the new insurance system is only of an investment nature and does not even have a redistributive character, I would say even a guarantee of the money of the insured, i.e. the public simply collects the money of the insured and invests it professionally as an investment house. And the problem here lies in the fact that inevitably the cycles of the economy and, in particular, the capitalist economy in which we are living - and in which we will be living in the coming years, as it seems - enable these insured people's money to be lost, without even the public's responsibility, to the well of the recession in question. So subsidiary insurance will follow the cycles of the economy, and therefore supplementary pensions will follow the cycles of the economy, and at the same time Mr Tsakloglu tells us about intergenerational solidarity, while the insured will lose their money and their pensions and will not be responsible for the loss of this money. So whoever is talking about justice here is rather more prejudicial to the insured than introducing an innovatory in this case, an innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, social security is essentially the collective society of rights. The individual pigeon, on the other hand, is nothing more than the abolition of the concept of insurance, much more than social security. Mr. Tsakloglou says he handles as his institutional insurance model the Swedish model, but he introduces a bill that most suits to the structured bonds of the time of the "Acropolis Exchange" of "Priorityotakis" and structured bonds of the time of the "kombaros". The reference to Sweden is rather to appall this new version, the new versatile of structured bonds. The bill therefore introduces a new business, which is located on the limits of betting, gambling and is an expression of modern casino - capitalism. What do I mean? I mean, the money of the insured is becoming a high-risk venture capital in the hands of yapes who will play it on the money markets without any - none at all! - protection of insured persons against unreasonable business risks. Thus, the sweating of insured persons, intended for a social state to meet the needs of life, pensions and possibly medical care, is completely insured, is the subject of gambling and betting. Its logic of creating a new working class that will speculate with the social security cover of the country's workforce is the most cynical of the insurance scenarios that this government could follow. The consequence of gambling insurance contributions on the money market and on the stock exchanges is obvious. If there are profits, this new professional class of yapids created by the government, which will risk foreign collisions, will be built up, but if, however, this money is lost in international gambling and the stock market, the painful consequences will come to the detriment of Greek insured persons. And don't tell me, Minister, that there is a public clause to cover these damages, as Mr Tsakloglou reiterates in his public speech, because Greece's burdened public finances are not, as you well know, sufficient to cover what was broken and damaged. Perhaps it is also forbidden to cover these damages from the provisions of International Economic Law. Because you are well aware of these, you are obviously indulging in a communication game with the sacred and loyals of the Greek household, the Greek family. You must pay great attention to this game, Minister, because its results mean unprecedented disruption, unprecedented social concern and insecurity and possibly a direct question of the social state as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, the real truth is that nowhere in the world has any government ever thought of replacing sacred social security with gambling, betting and lottery. Unfortunately, however, this is being done here today in our place with this bill. And all of this as a "black" perspective for the immediate future of social security in Greece. And if we are talking, of course, about the present, this picture is even more grim. The transitional period which immediately comes into force with the entry into force of the draft we are debating today makes it very unequivocal, illegal and unconstitutional to all those workers who have had high wage reservations for many years with the hope and the prospect of decent wages for supplementary pensions. It is for all of them that Caeda comes because we are basically in complete insecurity and are losing the insurance values which they have paid for many years and have systematically paid for. The answer to the question why all this fuss, because this initiative on the insurance reform which is currently under way for the subsidiary is that none of it has anything to do with the real needs of social security and the reform measures that really have to be taken. More than that, we understand it as an initiative to create a new professional class of foreign capital managers, which is granted in due course with this false bill of insurance. The funds of the insured, their insurance contributions become working capital in the hands of the yapes, which are called upon to speculate without any personal risk, thus over-exposure to the risks of the insured themselves. Now, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of the Coupling, what you are presenting as the innovatory of social security is essentially an anachronism that sends it backwards towards the uncertainty and economic impoverishment of workers, despite the impulse in the future, which can be no more than the elimination of poverty and the improvement of the quality of life for most citizens. This bill is the equivalent of the state of staff. It started as a political comedy and ends up as a political one - let me say - tragedy. Therefore, one thing is certain with these policies, that the citizens, the insured, the future pensioners are the ones who will suffer the disastrous consequences of this policy that you are voting on today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. We will now give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Thanassis Pafile. Wait a minute to get the Step ready. The Communist Party, as it had announced this morning, is now calling for a roll-call vote in the bill under discussion, which will take place at the end of the debate on the bill. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u268	The Government of New Democracy after the 'fun' - there is no other word - has exhausted the vocabulary - which it voted to increase the time of unpaid work - ten hours, twelve hours - - an end to Sunday holidays, an attempt to execute the right to strike, a hit on the trade union movement which is planning, then, from this great gift that he made to employers, the great employer, to business groups - because that took so many years to make labour costs cheaper - now comes challengingly and with false claims to make another gift - and what kind of gift? - hot money directly to business groups, which are from sweat and work mainly - and not just - young people. That's it and you don't go and say what you want! You will collect the money of young workers - later and later, not only of young people, Christos Katsotis and other speakers - and you will give them a chance to invest. With what right, really, will you do that? What right? And you're telling us on top that they're in agreement already? Why, did you ask them? They're all opposite. Only some sold-outs support this. That's what you did! In order for the new world to understand it in particular, it will take the money and give it to business groups, the notorious TEHA, the fund that you're building and which you're supposed to be under control, etc. Of course he'll be under control. Why, what state is it? The government will not have this line? What's he gonna say? He'll tell him, "Don't give money to the business groups"? You'll do it all with a big question. They know how much they'll give. How much they'll get they don't know. Who will define this, whether or not they are going to get smoked or at best - at least by now - take back the capital they have put back? That is the big question. And it's challenging to hear the New Democracy invoking the new generation and doing it for the new generation. Well, you don't get a little packed up, do you? What new generation, 200, 300, 400 euros at best, of 'black' work, of those with graduates and graduates working for taxis or in cafes working for 'dételiers'? What youth? Who's made it there, with these working relationships reminiscent of the middle ages? They literally don't know how much they'll work, how much they'll get, what day they'll take if they get off! Where do you live, really? The villas of the shipowners? Where? In the homes of big money, capitalists, big businessmen, industrialists, bankers? Get out in the street! A walk to Athens only to see the future that you have all created for youth! And here they don't fit a level or anything. All of you, all the governments, have legalised the step forward in this terrible situation for young people. It is also challenging and very vulgar at the same time to claim that young people pay the pensions of the old and that Mr. Couridis has previously come out with hate over pensioners and to blame everyone and say that it is their fault, that is to say, the workers, for the bankruptcy, and that he has not made it for the trillions and billions of drachmas, for the unbelievable and unsatisfactory profits that capitalists have in all these years and that workers have been called upon to pay for this crisis, while others have paid nothing. On the contrary, a lot has been taken. It is a big insult to those who built Greece, to those who have literally been beaten all these years, they have also paid with many deaths capitalist growth and have succeeded with very hard struggles to extract part of the stolen goodwill. There isn't? Do you in capitalism and your system reward workers with what they produce? One-third goes out, two-thirds go into the capitalists' pocket. That's research that the JRC didn't do, but others did. So they managed to take a place with some conquests from the globe and from the state, because, you know, the myth at least needs to get away from the workers' mind that there was a tripartite funding. He was one-sided. There was never a tripartite. Why? We'll prove it. A place was paying the employee directly, yes or no? Yeah. A place was paying the state. Where? From the tax on labour, i.e. 94% of employees and other popular groups, 6% of the capitalists who hold more than 60% of GDP. Finally, part of the goodwill paid for it by the employer. In other words, one-sided was financing by the worker himself. Do you dare now tell the children to swear their fathers, to be held responsible? That's what you're saying all the time. Their fathers didn't work? Who made all the things that are there, this capitalist development, and under what terms and conditions of work? And you're actually telling them now that you've eaten your children's bread? But you will pay it sooner or later and too expensive. Who are you talking about, really? So tell us who ate the fund reserves! Did they have huge reserves, yes or no? What did you do with it? Here's the warning for the young! You gambled them - I'll start with the younger ones - on the stock market. At that time, only the trade unions of the JRC opposed it. How much was it? It was 3.5 billion, like I think? They're going! The rest you've done with the PSI! Why did you "handle it"? In order not to pay the large capital that was favoured by growth, but also by the crisis and then say 'Here we are, the funds are problematic'! Only the IKA is estimated to have eaten, you stole 50 billion euros! So give back all your stolen stuff! Take them from those who have and give them back, let's see if the funds are problematic or not! That's not what's been proven against Coron! What else did you do? You've reduced 40% of wages and pensions. You sent to hunger and misery a whole world that worked a life, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five, once forty years. And all that to fund businessmen too. You are now returning to 1950, which was the money of all the restless funds - not to say again - that at the time they had no pensions or nothing, at a zero interest rate in ETVA, at Bodosaki - it has died, of course, so I say - and to all the majestics who from there took money and most 'cannon' did not come back, except that you gave them the mountains and 'Larco' and to cement and anywhere else for free to win. So that's it. The attack on insurance began earlier, before 1990, but intense and relatively rapid steps since the 1990s. And that marks what capitalism wanted, but also the fact that the socialist camp has left. Some people don't dare say anything. And I would say to Mr. Courides that in 1950 they worked for five days and thirty-five hours, that they paid almost zero sums for heating and home, that they had free education and health, that they had prevention and social benefits unbelievable and in very difficult conditions, despite the mistakes made. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] So the countdown began, said comrade Pappiga. Siufa's importance was that he distinguished pensions from collective agreements. Did you guys change it? Oh, no. You of the SYRIZA that you're cutting, have you changed it? Are pensions under collective agreements? Oh, no. All laws, Siufa, Reppa, Petralia, were maintained integer and the attack, given and the opportunity was culminated during the capitalist crisis, with Kutrumanos, Loverdos, Brutsi, Katrugalos. Yes or no? What strategy did the insurance reforms take, which, as Yannis Giokas said, did you say, 'We are going to solve insurance for thirty and forty years?' Where's that? The opposite happened, so the storm came. What was the target? And don't do what you don't know him. The aim was to get the capital out of insurance contributions because it is cost - all the reports say - of the European Union and of BSE and to get the state rid of it, so that workers' insurance is now an individual case. That's where you're taking it now. Individual pigeon. Each one alone. What are you talking about? Will employees be watching how the investment programs go to the stock market? Will they be looking to find out what the shares are that play? This job they're gonna do from morning to night? They don't even want to do it. So that is the line, the direction taken by all governments. A law that was the most reactionary change in recent years, after the two that New Democracy brought, was the Katorugalou law, which abolished the minimum pension, established what they were asking for. Guaranteed, he says, EUR 384 to twenty years, less to fifteen and the other reward. That's what they've wanted all these years. So it automatically went into the same strategy and the New Democracy continues, that is, personalized by insurance, the state guarantees something with which you can never live, the 300 euros, unless you can live, so you can get this pension. They put in the payroll system. So, in essence, the social character - even the one that existed - was evaporated, Mr Skourletis, which you said we were equitable. Are we leveling? You are worshippers of the European Union, whose line was launched with the White Paper, which you said was neither black nor white. Let's not go on for the rest, the modern ones. What else did you do? Three pillars. Katrugalou Law. What does the first guy say? State, compulsory, based on the redistributive system. Secondly, on the basis of capitalisation, the insured person will be able to choose between the state and the private. Third, only a private option based of course on capitalisation. This is where the New Democracy is going. Not that he wouldn't do it, but you guys got ahead of it. And here is the saying of Anelli who was the president of FIAT, because so many years have not passed, you of SYRIZA have spent it. What did he say? Where the Right can't be, there's the useful Left. That's how the road opened. Of course, variations and disagreements may exist in individual respects, but we are strategically the same. I'm coming to the bill. Emblematic bill, it says. Big reform. It's not emblematic, it's criminal. It is criminal because it obliges young people who enter the labour market to pay for subsidiary without, I repeat, knowing when and how much pension they will receive. And don't give us any arguments. We're not a downward perception of the whole thing. As far as the right to pension is concerned, therefore, the bill turns the worker from an investor to an investor. What do you think? Well, do you think you'll make fun of the world like that? Are there going to be investors all those kids who break from morning to night to get a piece of money and where the fathers and grandparents who swear them up and off and offend them are ticking to live? They came to ask Grandpa why they were unemployed. So now they are going to be investors! That's gambling. Isn't it gambling? Isn't that a lottery? This is the big overthrow, of course. Of course you are building a monkey fund, in our view, which you say is state-owned, that it is controlled by the State and, indeed, by the subsidiary fund. Excuse me, subsidiary insurance fund: Chairman of the capital market. Big protector of the workers! Chairman of SAEP. You're the one who appoints him. We're wondering what they're gonna do. Director-General for Public Debt Management. Why? What do you want with him? Why are you putting him? To count and say it doesn't have, that growth didn't go well, the debt, the one, the other, so we'll put a hand and eight billion later to fill in. You will finance it for five years and you will secure funding -56 billion, others say 80 - for forty years. You're squabbling, of course, without the hotel owner. And you say that everything is guaranteed. Why do you put three categories if it's all secured? Category of first low risk, second medium and third high risk. And you are now calling on the worker to choose on the basis of these criteria. Why do you put these on as long as it's ensured that he gives his money and gets his pension? Why do you put immunity? So, if your TECHA blows tomorrow, the subsidiary insurance, it's nobody's fault? Of course there is political responsibility. We're not talking about it. If there's any ribbon big - and it's done, why is capital not hesitant about anything - why are you putting him immunity? So Mr Spankis said that there is no gambling, as the absent minister said. Is there gambling, winning or losing? Let's see. ENRON and MAXWELL in England went bankrupt and workers got nothing. Retirement program "SPPIS", dozens of insurance companies. Let us say in particular: 1 billion euros is the account of the debts they have inherited to the public tens of insurance companies that have closed or revoked the authorisation in recent years. EGNATIAS owes 300 million. In the air, the insured. "SPPIS" owes 170 million. ‘International Union’, ‘ASTRA SAFALISTIC’, ‘GENERAL UNION’, etc., forty-two insurance companies hit a cannon. Yes or no? Is that the safeguard you're giving them? What can I tell you? You don't support, to make fun of the world, or how your system works, that you invest, sir, and you may lose. You're telling him you're sure. The latter is the argument for the ageing of the population, the great problem that the European Union is saying and used as a pretext, as an excuse for gambling insurance contributions. But how hypocrisy! At the same time as he says all of this and expresses the anxiety about ageing and how pensions will be financed, they throw the cuts and the wages. There are groups of unemployed, recycle unemployment, generalise flexible labour relations. How does this work on your market? Businesses and insurance funds are making huge profits, and they cannot make up for what they have to make up for, because the rest is falling. Who's coming out won? They're the ones. What is the solution beyond these monsters coming? Expansion of working life, he says, at low risk employment. They find some tricks! What's the reality? In the European Union 20% of working people are over sixty-five to seventy-two years old, 15% more than seventy-two. Aren't you ashamed? And you're talking? What system? What justice? So, to death, is he going to retire? What are you talking about? What system are you talking about and saying all these airplanes? Over seventy-two people are forced to work - why is no one going for a hobby? That is what it says and we must promote them, it says, and also give incentives to remain at work. And because he also talked about Venizelos and so on, to say that it seems to me that we will soon go to Colotronis, to what it was then. Is society's own potential today with the possibilities that previously existed? Is he going forward or going back? Sixty-five to seventy-two fell, and even the justification that at that time the average life was shorter and that is why it was sixty-five. This is your line, which is barbaric and inhuman. In conclusion - and I thank you, Mr President - I would like to say this: do studies and screenings in various ways, and even by 2100. Are you serious? We will give you one advice: First, things are not evolving in society as you all want. Capitalism cannot have crises and even bigger ones. Crisis is a component and accompanying it as the crab accompanies the turtle. And there's gonna be bigger crises. We had a sample of her here where the whole world was fighting. Second, do you have your mind removed too? You think it'll be eternity? Have you forgotten about the social overthrow, the struggle of workers, the social revolution, which will come sooner or later? It accumulates a lot of fuel. It won't last much longer for the pot, it'll break the lid, and then you'll be left with the projections. We tell the workers that it is time to get what they deserve and where they can today. It's not in 17, despite the fact that 17 was given so much. To take power in a state of labour with socialism that can guarantee - and has done so in very difficult times - that it will cover all, but all, human needs. So now fight, but with perspective. Otherwise, what were we talking about? In capitalism there is never any conquest, of course. You called us graphics and dogmatics. The economic crisis has come to prove it. They have experience - regardless of what they do in the polls - large of all the parties, 'bought'. We say to them: on the road to the struggle and the prospect of overthrowing this system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Pafile. Good evening, too. Good month and years to those who celebrate today. Prepare the Step, which is called by Athanasios Zebbles from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, in our country when we talk about the insurance system we are usually talking about lost opportunities. Sadly, though, without learning from the mistakes of the past, we remember them when evil first occurred. This is the infinite consequence of the fact that we are not making early reforms, so that Greece has a significant delay in relation to the European Union's average. It is true that, when we entered Economic Monetary Union, the budget support for the social security institutions was about 5.4 billion, and today it is more than three times the sum. With this given and despite the pension cuts, Greece has the highest funding of the insurance system from general taxation across Europe. But in addition to its high financial costs and the insured themselves are damaged because they do not know how much money they put into the subsidiary system, nor do they know what they have, nor what they will get from the savings of an entire life. In an even worse fate the younger generations will find, because of the ageing population, they will surely get less and less than the previous generations, and even less money than they paid for contributions. So the existing ancillary insurance redistributive system, which has tested the strengths of the insured and our national economy, has testified its livelihood and today gives its place to a new ambitious model that is successfully applied in many advanced countries in the world. In particular, the present draft law attempts to break down into subsidiary insurance for new entrants with the following characteristics: firstly, the elements of the capitalisation system are introduced and, in this way, subsidiary insurance is upgraded as a distinct pillar of the insurance system by strengthening pension earnings in addition. Secondly, the public nature of subsidiary insurance with the State is maintained to guarantee and bear full responsibility for its operation. Thirdly, with the mechanism of solidarity between generations to have stumbled because of demographic changes, this draft law strengthens intergenerational justice and inspires the confidence of the insured. Fourthly, the insured person will have easy access to his account and see his money multiply. This will give him more incentive to work and accumulate incomes, thus creating a new saving culture. Furthermore, it is certain that it will also create serious counter-insurance for uninsured and implied work. Fifthly, there will be significant investment funds that will rekindle the economy and boost growth by increasing secondaryly and tax revenues. To the extent that investment is carried out with technological adequacy and transparency, as this guarantees, it is certain that goodwill will be achieved which will strengthen pension funds. In any case, however, a security claim is made, with the State guaranteeing that the supplementary pension will at least correspond to the contributions paid by the insured person. This is also one proposal, one that does not affect and does not touch existing supplementary pensions. The other proposal could you tell me what it is? Because the data of the demographic problem and the ageing population in our country, unfortunately, are relentless and will become even worse over time. So what is the other proposal to improve the sustainability of the system? Should the contributions be increased? To cut pensions? Or should general taxation be constantly increased to cover the weaknesses of the system by taking resources and money to a bottomless barrel? So what's the proposal? Because we all realise that proposing that the increase in life expectancy cannot be halted. So who is she? We conclude that the difference is not between a redistributive and capitalist system. The difference we are debating today is between reality and idealism. Mr President, with the amendment of the Ministry of Finance, I would like to say that the present draft law of the Ministry of Social Affairs is being discussed at a time when we are trying to close our wounds and manage the tragic consequences of the catastrophic fire in my home country. In northern Evia, the social and productive tissue has been completely broken, since the forest gave thousands of foresters, rhetoric farmers, beekeepers, loggers, farmers and farmers. Also, business activity in particular in the area of tourism and focus was closely intertwined with this beautiful forest. This region today needs a strong welfare state to develop a framework of social protection measures for the affected, the unemployed, the retired, the women and the weak. I therefore stress the obligation of the State to implement policies to support our fellow people in the affected area, including early voluntary retirement for foresters and rhetoric farmers over 50 years of age, who have been entitled to more than four and a half thousands of heavy and unhealthy lives, to subsidise jobs for businesses in order to strengthen the local economy, to extend the OAED's work-benefit scheme to the municipalities of Istanbul and Mandudi - Lake - Agia Anna, which have been affected by the catastrophic fires, to grant OAED unemployment benefits for workers in seasonal enterprises with a five-year period of five years instead of the eighths envisaged today, to set up a specific employment programme aimed at the needs of the region, thereby combating the unemployment expected to increase sharply. An integrated social protection net in Northern Evia should therefore be implemented in a timely manner. It is well known that a holistic reconstruction plan is being drawn up for the region. However, major infrastructure projects take time and we already have the first samples of internal immigration in the region. We are therefore called upon to fight with time to prevent the desertification of the settlements and to keep the inhabitants in their villages, to keep them up and high with their heads. To this end, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has a very important role to play.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Zebble. We remain in the New Democracy and Mr Georgios Amanatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, let me use the expression, the vehicle of the capitalisation system in subsidiary insurance begins. Who will travelers be? Travellers in this vehicle on the basis of the provisions of the law will be new entrants from 1-1 to 2022 in the labour market, who are, of course, liable for subsidiary insurance and voluntary workers up to thirty-five years, as well as self-employed. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, this system seeks firstly to ensure, with the main basic pension of a standard of living as equivalent to what the worker would have had if he were working and had his own earnings. This is therefore very important because the needs continue to exist in households in the country. The second thing that the draft law is trying to cover is that we must finally - we have heard it beforehand - strengthen the sustainability of the social security system. The capitalist system - because this is what we are talking about - does not affect the fundamental characteristics of subsidiary insurance, which retains its public character and is under state control, on the basis of what is provided for in the Constitution. Now, instead of being used to pay the supplementary pension for the current pensioners, you will be saved and every worker will now have one of his own money - we have heard it earlier - where the contributions and returns from his capital will be collected there, which will be paid when the time comes for his future pension. So what does Greece do? It does the simple thing, it follows the example of states that have already been considered a success. For example, in the OECD, we know that 50% and more of the insured are based on supplementary pensions in a capitalised system, and in other countries this figure is 80%. As the committee has now referred to failure examples of some countries by opposition MPs, I stress that a single part of the overall social security system is being taken over in this draft law and not all, as happened in Latin American states, as well as in Eastern Bloc states where the system collapsed and workers' earnings collapsed. Will anyone ask: is reform necessary? The answer is certainly yes, it is necessary, for the following reasons. The first reason is the country's demographic problem. I would remind you that when the distribution system was founded in 1950, the working-to-retirement ratio was 4 to 1, and already on the basis of what the Deputy Minister, Mr Tsakloglu, told us, is 1 to 1,7 and can therefore be said at some point on the basis of the forecasts it can reach 1 to 2. That is to say, in our country, they work fewer and support most. As you can see, this cannot go on like this. This draft law attempts in practice a mixture which reduces the risk that the pension scheme may entail. What does that mean? Firstly, the national pension is subject to the financial risk - I do not need to develop it - the return pension is subject to a demographic risk - I said two words earlier - and the capitalisation pension, the subsidiary we are talking about, is subject to the risk of the markets. So we have a mixture of dangers. Through this mixture, we will certainly have an expanded benefit base that we will try to make sure that it is stable. A second element is that the pensioners of the new system will get much higher pensions than those of the existing system, because they have much higher long-term yields, which will of course take thirty or forty years. Thirdly, restoring the confidence of the new generation in the insurance system, since, as we have heard earlier, each worker will have his own individual account. Of course, all this reform is based on three studies: the proportionality, the budgetary and the sustainability study of the public debt. That gives a safety to design. But we have also heard criticism of the opposition. But what is this criticism? The first point of criticism is that it speaks of privatization of social security. The answer is that this is completely false. Why? Because Article 4 provides for the establishment of the EAEC, the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, which will be in the form of a legal person and managed by a board and the Director, based on the provisions of the draft law, which cannot be called into question in terms of their objectivity. The second point of criticism is what Anti-Policy says will increase the level of contributions. And that's false. It's not true, let me say it more politely. For the new subsidiary system, the level of contributions remains the same, i.e. 6.5% by mid-2022 and 6% below for the employees on the basis of the insurance category they choose, but also for the self-employed. The third point of criticism: Opposition speaks of gambling with the money of the insured. That's completely false, because there's security valves. We have heard that the first challenge is that young people insured have the public guarantee in terms of the amount of benefits, in other words, where - and this seems unlikely - the Greek public will be in a position to enjoy both the contributions paid and the sums resulting from inflation. The second key concerns the current pensioners, and this lies in the commitment that neither the payment of supplementary pensions of the existing system, i.e. pensioners, will be affected by the planned reform. We therefore know that, because any gap exists will be covered by the public investment programme, by the state budget. With regard to the fourth point of criticism, the opposition is talking about a huge transition cost. It is well known, we have heard it, it has been analysed that the cost of transition, at the moment the fixed cost, is about EUR 15 billion and will be charged around EUR 130 million, a relatively small sum, I would say, in relation to the amount already planned and spent. Ladies and gentlemen, I say that reform of the supplementary insurance system will lead to - and this is what has been seen and is one of the examples of other countries - higher supplementary pensions for young insured persons, without any doubt - and I said earlier on - an impact on the old insured person, guarantees that the amount of the pension cannot be lower than that which corresponds to the contributions paid, through the State guarantee, and this is clearly provided for in the draft law, disconnects supplementary pensions from demographic developments and the progressive ageing of the population, responds to the high dependency of the state budget - we have said so earlier - and strengthens the confidence of the young people in this new public insurance system, as every new worker will be able to see the money of his money and can still plan after five years and change of the insurance level, strengthens the sustainability of the social security system and finally follows the fallen, which has been done, but a lot of which has been achieved by this system, and has not been brought to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Amanatidis, slow down to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u274	And here - and I am ending - it is a logic that is, I would say, safe for the workers. In conclusion, with this draft law, I say that the government is promoting an important structural reform for the new generation, that is, investing in the new generation, and doing so today preventive, and not, of course, in the future, aspiring to tackle the problems already created by the ageing of the population. And with these thoughts I wish that after a few years we will be able to see the positive effects of this effort and, as is normal, I am voting in favour of the provisions of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr Amanatidis. Please keep the time. I would remind you of those who ask and those who see from their offices that we will get to 71. The commemorator is called in Stepma today, Mr. Rallia Christidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u276	I'm not celebrating, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u277	It's not celebrating, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u278	I read 'Rellia'. Aren't you celebrating? I read today in forty names and 'Rallia'. What can I tell you now? Rejoice her!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President, for your best wishes. Be well. I'm not celebrating, of course, but welcome! "Rallia" is tiny and never celebrates. It is misleading, but thank you very much for your wishes. Welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u280	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today after a summer full of problems, with open fronts and government failures in the fires, in education, in health and hence in the economy. And you continue the extreme neoliberal, supposedly, reforms in favour of the few really unstable. After work and education, the order of insurance came. The question is one: What is this extreme neoliberal counter-reformation, which is at least dangerous to the citizens and certainly extremely expensive for the already wintering financial public? Why is it, since it has literally only negative and no benefit, and while you have been warned not by the opposition, but by the institutions themselves? But the answer is why there is a benefit. There is a benefit for individuals who will manage the funds that will entrust them with the famous TEHA, which is state-owned, to overcome the unconstitutionality of the draft law you bring. The Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, therefore, will be the only person in charge of the insured and future pensioners for the management of contributions, for investments and for the payment of supplementary pensions, with the Minister having the absolute control of the board of directors, while the insured will pay, but for no reason for the administration. The CEO may hire and dismiss at will. They are recommended for this service a hundred new staff posts, at the same time that the government brings back its e-ECA pensioners to run the outstanding pensions and entrusts their extradition to private individuals. By a provision which e-ECA did not have, as a legal person governed by public law, leaves a free scope in the TECA for contracts of tens of thousands in select, without the relevant legislation on procurement and public contracts being applicable here. Finally, the members of the board of directors of the EAEC will have criminal and civil responsibility only if they act with deceit and serious negligence with regard to the service itself. We understand, therefore, all who will be the only beneficiaries of the new situation and who will benefit in turn without consequences. Therefore, the way to gamble the subsidiary on the back of the insured is open, but at the expense of the State. This draft law dissociates the contributions of young people insured by covering current and future pensions too simply to channel them elsewhere. The financial gap created or, in any case, the transition costs, but who will cover it, ladies and gentlemen? Who's gonna cover it? Another question. But the public will, of course, cover it in order to secure pensions. The taxpayers and the state budget by 2030 will be charged with costs of EUR 1 billion per year and after 2040, with costs of 2.7 billion per year. The fact that these amounts and burdens are long-term and concern the next generations must make us double and three-fold suspicious, reluctant and suspicious, as the government does not have the right to undermine the future of the new generation, to undermine the future of young people too simply to speculate. The cost of transition is over 56 million and with the guarantees declared by the granting of supplementary pensions will reach 75 to 78 billion euros, charging the repayment of the public debt by 49%. This huge burden you deny to finances has also been shown by the institutions in July, which is confirmed by the text of the bill, which expressly states that for the experiments of the New Democracy and its neighbours the marble, close to 900 million per year, as budget expenditure, will be covered by where? From the state budget. So the rulings pretend to ignore the risks of investment from the gambling of insurance contributions, allegedly forgetting the many cases of collapse in the financial sector: 'LEHMAN BROTHERS', 'ARCLAYS', etc. In the case of foreigners, as well as domestic 'SAP PROTOCOL'. But there are Greeks and Greek women who remember it well. In the event of a collapse, the Minister will tell us that pensioners do not lose their contributions - that is what they are missing! Alas! To God! - but without any surcharge, which means a reduction and, indeed, a significant reduction in supplementary pensions, while the new taxpayers - who are allegedly being cut - will have paid this unpaid pension twice as much as three times as they are. Finally, the government claim that this change was a one-way road because of the country's demographic theme is not really based anywhere. You yourself a year and a half ago, with Law 4670/2020, brought to the House a proportionate study proving the viability of the EPC, together with subsidiary insurance. Or, then, Mr Brutsis made a mistake at that time, which he assured of the viability and adequacy of benefits, with the approval of the European Union and the sustainability of the insurance system by 2070, or you. Which one's telling the truth? Which one of them is lying? In any case, the pension fund of each worker, ladies and gentlemen, except for specific money - let me say it - is also sacred. It is not money to take advantage of some private individuals with state coverage, while they will act safely, speculating the risk of the whole business falling into the money of the retired, without even asking! The retired will be blamed on the state as well. This is a violent redistribution of wealth at the expense of many and in favour of a few and some. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, it also appeared in yesterday's failed reshape, which made all Greece really laugh at your inadequacy. Because they thought: After what you did well, you did well with the pandemic, you did well with the fires, didn't you? - and after you did everything well, then why did you change four ministers responsible? Funny way to congratulate the successful ones! I think people understand that you are losing - and you understand it - at a rapid rate of your voters. So try to settle your promises to specific business centres before the elections make you a new minority. You are complaining, ladies and gentlemen. We are going to abolish bills like today and we are going to abolish agreements at the expense of the public interest. You have no doubt either you or your state-owned friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, too. It is called at Step Mr. Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy and Mr. Vassiliadis prepared for change.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today an important reform of our insurance system, capitalising subsidiary insurance, that is to say, a system in which the employees' contributions support the supplementary pension of the pensioners in a system where the supplementary pension is paid out by the savings of each insured person, i.e. the contributions paid in the years worked plus their return on investment. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, to say why this is happening and what benefits it will have for our insurance system as a whole, but also for future pensioners. First of all, the stability of the social security system is strengthened because, with the current system, the redistributive, supplementary pensions, like the main ones, will more and more face demographic pressure in the future, namely that workers will be called upon to support more and more pensioners. With their passage to the capitalisation system, supplementary pensions cease to be exposed to the same risk as the main ones, the demographic one. We share eggs in different baskets, as the Ministers have rightly said. Apart from that with capitalisation, we have a greater return on contributions, thereby encouraging tax evasion to be reduced, savings increase something that leads to an increase in investment in our economy, an increase in income and employment productivity and a total increase in GDP. A responsible political leadership must face up to the challenges of the future by giving solutions now not leaving the situation as it is nor by postponing the solution for later. Unfortunately, the Opposition faced a piece of legislation that is coming to improve the prospect of insurance in terms of ideological automation, as was done in the recent working draft, with arguments, the same ones that said about insurance for for forty and fifty years ago, with views that have little or nothing to do with the provisions of the bill and which are therefore being demolished by the evidence. Contrary to what you support, supplementary pensions with the capitalisation system will be higher, 43% to 68% higher on the basis of European experience, 11% to 13% in line with the national Analogue Authority's basic scenario. In other words, it replaces a system which, due to demographic pressure, would give smaller pensions to a system with the same contributions. Contrary to what you say, this is not a gamble for the contributions of the young insured. Because even in the unlikely event that something is wrong with the investments in their savings, the state guarantees that they will receive an additional pension equal to the contributions they would have paid plus inflation. So where is gambling when it is ensured that the insured will get at the worst the actual value of what he gave, or when the state completes the required contributions, so that supplementary pension can be granted in the event of death or disability? Does they consider the investment of the reserves of the insurance funds on the Greek market, as is done under the responsibility of two public bodies which have been operating for some twenty years, with a real return close to and above the average of the corresponding investments in the most developed countries in the world? So where is the party of the funds and insurance companies? On the contrary, the social security system is not privatised. The Auxiliary Social Security Fund, which will manage the reserves, is a legal person governed by public law and as such exercises public authority in order to achieve a specific public interest. In other words, social security remains under state care, as required by the Constitution. It was also argued that eighteen countries left the capitalist system in recent years and that this was a confession of its failure. They forget to tell us that these are countries of South America, Africa and Eastern Europe that have fully privatised their insurance systems, and that the model of capitalisation has been fully implemented, and in our case capitalisation will be a very small part of the insurance and initially a certain part of the insured and secondly, the successful Nordic model of public compulsory insurance is being used. Contrary to what you are saying, it does not result in an unfavourable financial cost for us to move from one system to another. The net cost is only 6 billion euros that are shared in about fifty years. In other words, a EUR 120 million a year - when the state gives more than EUR 15 billion for pensions every year - so that young workers can receive a much greater supplementary pension than the current system. In addition, all the scenarios examined by the ancillary insurance reform do not adversely affect public debt. On the contrary, it will lead to a lower ratio of debt to GDP over time. Ladies and gentlemen, against the ghosts seen by the Opposition, the new subsidiary insurance serves the social and economic objectives of a pension system, supports the living level of pensioners with higher benefits, increases the remuneration of the contributions and guarantees minimum remuneration, strengthens the confidence of younger workers in the public insurance system, facilitates future pensioners to plan their finances after the completion of their working life, mobilises savings with positive imprint on new domestic investments and employment, and reduces the overall risk to the insurance system. In short, it is a reform with a look at the future, with a look at the new generation combining social solidarity with economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, too. We remain in the New Democracy and Mr Vassiliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since it is my first step by step after the opening of the House, I would like to wish all and all of us a good month and, in particular, the new members of the government a good strength so that they can meet their new tasks. The short summer rest allowed us to spend time in our regions, near our fellow citizens, who trusted us and showed us the seat here. From the discussions I had during the past period, I have seen that the continued trials that our country and the rest of the world are facing, beyond their direct and visible consequences, have also significantly influenced the psychology of the world. In particular, younger fellow citizens, who are invited to face up to unprecedented situations when everyone is in a period of their lives building up their business or starting their own family, gradually lose their hope for a better tomorrow. The pandemic, the protracted recession of over the past few years, geopolitical developments with side effects for our country, the climate crisis is conditions which each individual would find difficult to cope with, especially when all of this happens at the same time or for succession. To some extent, we can say that this is why we are talking today, ladies and gentlemen, about returning hope to young people and young people who are planning the future, accepting that they may never receive a pension, as many of my fellow citizens have told me in Pella. The draft law proposed today by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is a due reform for young people. The main objective of the draft law is to increase supplementary pensions in a timely manner. A fundamental reform in this direction is the introduction of the much-discussed capitalisation system into the national insurance system. This is a debate which I have been remembering for about twenty years both at political level in the House and outside, as well as at scientific and academic level. Unfortunately, we are facing an unpleasant situation. The population of the country is ageing. The rapid decline in births in combination with an increase in life expectancy results in a pensioner corresponding to less than two workers, when this proportion was previously one to five. So we cannot ignore reality. We have a duty to the new generation to put in place a system of insurance which will guarantee pensioners for decades. Conversion of part of the insurance system from redistributive to capitalisation I think it's not just in the right direction, but it's also a one-way road. I therefore welcome the leadership of the Ministry that boldly implements another election commitment from the New Democracy. This new system focuses on young workers who will enter the labour market from 2022 onwards. At the same time and on a voluntary basis, it is also possible for workers of up to thirty-five years' duration to join. For its implementation, the new Capital Insurance Fund, which will operate in the standards of other countries of the European Union and of the OECD, is established. In the current redistributive system, the amount of the pension is not a straightforward consequence of the amount of the insured person's contributions, but depends primarily on the number of workers who pay contributions at the time of the award of the pension. This is a misunderstanding which we have often been called upon to answer and - and rightly so in my opinion - the pensioner expects that he will take the money he has worked for life and the state has retained it. With the new system introduced by the Ministry to the draft law, that is exactly what is being achieved. The individual pigment of each insured person to which his contributions are collected shall be established. However, it is not only about saving but also about increasing investment. The money of the coin must be redeemed and this will be done through the operation of the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, which will follow tested practices, structured over proportionate studies and with a philosophy of private economy. We don't invent the wheel. We are simply applying the experience of many other countries that, through the application of a capitalisation system, have achieved an increase of 40% to 60% in the amount of supplementary pensions. Unfortunately, in our country, we have demonised, among other things, the concept of investment, as is apparent from the attitude and criticism of the Anti-Population in the draft law under discussion. That is why I particularly want to mention the provision of public guarantee for non-negative performance. What does that mean? That under no circumstances will the amount of the pension be lower than that corresponding to the contributions paid. Whether the investment goes well or not, the insured person can't get lost. The new system also strengthens transparency and accountability, as it gives more control to the insured person through the personal money monitoring system. In conclusion, Mr President, I think that this is a pioneering and innovative bill that increases confidence in the insurance system, supports growth and gives greater stability and security. It is within the framework of the authorities of the New Democracy, as it strengthens social justice and supports the worker, the farmer, the insured, the future pensioner. I therefore call on the House to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou. If we had a time of praise, you'd take him every time. Mr Nektarios Santorinios is called in Stepma, by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mrs Alexopoulou is prepared from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to refer to yesterday's reform, but the provocative statements made by the undocumented Minister of Development about Admiral Apostolakis and the statements made by the Government representative force me to remind you of something. Admiral Apostolakis as Chief of HNDGS, entered the "Barbaros" in October 2018 in our territorial waters, did it and resurrected anthrax in half a day. You had "Oruts Race" and had a cruise forty days in the Aegean Sea! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Finally, respect this place! And anyway, this remodeling has also highlighted something else. You have persecuted Mr. Kiklia and Mr. Kontozamanis, mainly Mr. Kontozamanis. What was Mr. Contozamanis? Public health officer, hospitals. You admitted your failure to strengthen the public health system and did so a year and a half later. We've been yelling for you for a year and a half. At the same time, did Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Chardalias pay only the fires or the attacks on the squares or the targeting of young people or the fact that there were insufficient controls, especially on the islands now in the tourist season, and we have all these problems? This reshape highlighted the inability of the state of Mitsotakis. To go through the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, the old political system over time played and gambled the money from the insurance funds. It's been a long time. By law of 1611/1950, the first article required insurance funds to put their reserves on the Bank of Greece. And the fourth article, what did he say? It gave the government the right uncontrollably to give these funds to private, businessmen, shipowners, factories and other collars of the government parties. All these loans have a name: sea loans. Do you know why? Because they went to the sea. The fund reserves went to sea. They never came back. Later, in the 2000s, who will forget the structured bonds, the gambling played with structured bonds? It cost about 1.8 billion in the insurance funds. Do you forget all this? Do you forget 'ASP PROMOTION', the private pension that gave a guaranteed rate of 7.5%? Where'd that money go? And now you guys have come to gamble like a state. The Mitsotakis Government continues to surrender the gambling of the insurance funds and deliver the reserves to your friends. You hide that eighteen countries have returned to the redistributive system, the Pinochet capitalisation from the thirty. Pinochet had also called it your Member - I think - the system that you are going to bring. Why? Because the systems collapsed and because there was a huge increase in budgetary debt. You hide that in new workers' surveys, they will turn their backs. Just 20% suggests that your system should follow those who work. The others will be required. You hide that the workers will eventually pay the reform twice, because by 2030 the burden will be about 1 billion, and from 2040 onwards it will be 2.7 billion and over. Divide and relieve members of the board of directors of civil and criminal responsibilities. Finally, you're going to cut off the social dividend. Have you told the low-paid and low-retireees? Have you said that 900 million will be given to the Golden Boys and the EKA to make your neoliberal obsession? Send to the bells forever the thirteenth pension. You always send to the bells what people expected, the low-payers, the low-retired at the end of the year, to buy something for their grandchildren. And these 900 million will be missed from the market, because they were going directly to the market. And you're lying. A year ago, Mr. Brutsi told us he solved the problem. There is now sustainability in the system. And now Mr Hatzidakis tells us that there is no sustainability in the system and he also brings us studies, that there is no sustainability in the system. Hey, who's lying to us, guys? Speaking of which, Mr. Brutsi, I haven't seen him in the benches. Is something wrong? Why isn't he coming? He should have been a parliamentary representative if I'm not mistaken. Anyway, it's your business. You also say that this reform will lead to better pensions for young people and that if it has not succeeded in gambling, don't worry, it will pay the state. Don't forget, the state will pay. You're saying the pensions on the young will be better. But you lie, because you hide that life expectancy has increased by eight years. Unless you say you'll get them all retired for seventy-four years. You should say that, and let us know what happens, that you will also increase the retirement threshold. Because for the 40 years the Non Paper has been telling you other things. The reality is that with the current one, a pensioner will get EUR 221 and the new system will get EUR 154. You also say that investment will be repaid, about 1 billion. You bring various studies, but they say that for fifty years there will be no recession and that all the money will be invested through the funds in the country. But the practice is that about 80% goes abroad and is invested. So, how's this $1 billion going to happen? It's gonna be magic. You're used to us in creative accounting. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. You are also telling us that it is the European system. The European system says that the main and supplementary pension is the first pillar. In the second pillar, which is the capitalisation, there are professional funds that are voluntary and have another culture. The only country with a capitalisation system is Denmark. But let us not compare Denmark with Greece and the social system it has because we are probably going to lose. Ladies and gentlemen, once again you are obsessed with your neoliberal fantasies. Legislate by increasing the burden on taxpayers for the next decades by 78 billion. You are plundering the insurance system by imposing bankrupt policies. You are creating a system that will have extra costs and commitments to return to European reality, not that fantasy you have. Legislation away from the needs of the people and workers. Once again you say that you want to protect the young people, these young people for whom you brought the new labour law by abolishing the eighth hour, a jungle in labour relations and a 40 thousand reduction in jobs. Your only concern is to serve the interests that have brought you to power. Every day that passes, you destroy the country. No remodel will save you. If you want to do a good one in the country, withdraw this bill and leave to stop ruining the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Santorinier. Mrs Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have much time at our disposal, so let me focus on a few points in the bill. Article 4 establishes an insurance superstition, the TECA. Here too, a matter of principle arises. It is not possible for insured persons and their contributions to be compulsory on the Stock Exchange. It is not insurance contributions for gambling and indeed, in the hands of not directly concerned, insured, but private companies. On the other hand, it is a sale of supplementary pensions and a dismantling of current structures. The government says the bill is a reform for the new generation. On the other hand, Articles 43 to 67 introduce the capitalisation system, the famous'multiple' system for up to thirty-five-year-old workers and new entrants, which inevitably leads to a dead end. That is because every new intake is part of the money, so the contributions for them too. The revenues of the public funds will therefore be steadily reduced in the coming years. Result: the shortfall in the supplementary fund deficit in so far as the pensioners of the future do not even receive the minimum pension. And only the concept of capitalisation of the existence of an insurance fund gives the mark of the bill. The insured will know what contributions he'll make, but he has no idea if he'll ever retire. With the capitalisation system we would actually no longer have supplementary pensions and the worker would no longer be considered as insured. He's becoming an investor and the contributors to the gambled capital. As far as his contributions are concerned, these are considered as capital that will only give dividends in case they pay, that is, perhaps never. This is still the draft law out of the spirit and letter of the Constitution, in addition to the laws and case law of the Supreme Courts. In accordance with points 2287/2015 and 1889/2019 of its Plenary Sessions, the Council of State ruled out any possible capitalisation of subsidiary insurance. The highest court of the country has irrevocably ruled that, in accordance with Article 22(4) of the Constitution, subsidiary insurance is public and compulsory only provided by the State, it is foreign to the business risks associated with the exercise of the insurance function by private entities and has a final and sole guarantor of the State, which is obliged to participate in its financing. However, the draft law abolishes all this. Is Article 8 really not being circumvented by the Constitution and the case-law of the Council of State, which refers to the resources of the EAEC? The State's participation is limited only for a transitional period of five years. In order to cover its operating costs, as referred to in paragraph 1, these resources will, together with the few remaining reserves, be used for stock exchange positions, i.e. by the social rule of law, we are going to go to the world state, to a new logic of levelling up institutions that have been conquered with struggles of our nation. Article 19, liability of the members of the board of directors of the EAEC. It introduces something unprecedented in time, the criminal impunity and the complete civil immunity of the fund managers for the exercise of their duties, and the draft law prior to Article 9 entrusts the insured with the operational expenses of the TECA and the salaries of its managers. In other words, part of the payment for supplementary pensions for the future is withdrawn. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, how then do you say that supplementary pensions will increase in relation to today's pensions? The whole opposite is going to happen. One more thing. Where is the government's concern for the demographic issue? One would expect the new insurance to give weight to the demographics, since in Greece for twenty years deaths have exceeded births, while seven hundred thousand young Greeks have migrated massively in the years of the crisis. Who will work, ladies and gentlemen, so that pensions can be guaranteed? Is it possible for a worker to correspond to a pensioner? We all need to understand that insurance will never be solved unless the demographics are solved at the same time. Incentives here and now to the Greeks to survive not only the insurance system, but also the country itself. The Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos, puts the insurance high, as evidenced by our government program, where through examples and merciless statistics, we reach the single recipe, the production of wealth in our country, so that young Greeks can come back, increase births, reduce deaths, reduce unemployment, raise wages and pensions. So national policy and a return to the primary production sector. This is the solution and not the half measures that serve only the powerful of the world and our write-down plan from the world state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. Giorgos Lambroulis is called in Stepma by the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. As many arguments as you have been indicted, gentlemen of the government, your bill escalates the attack on insurance rights. It privatises subsidiary insurance, turning it into a gambling and an individual case for young workers, who have recently learned new things from the Government of New Democracy, as Mr Hatzidakis said in his speech, namely that protection of work means ten-hours, unpaid overtime and intensification of work, are now learning something new, that their insurance through the capitalisation system that is being promoted will be an individual risk, and they will be designated investors themselves, who will gamble into life-long stock exchanges. Of course, the bill is not a lightning inhabitation, rather than another link in the chain of insurance overturns that have been carried out for years by all governments, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, the bill comes to complete the blows of all the previous governments to the insurance sector, building on them, of course, with more emblematic changes brought about by the notorious law - Katorugalo of the SYRIZA government and then further shielding the restructurings with the Brutsis Act. Guide to all overturns and social security so-called best European practices, namely the strategic choices and directions of capital - the European Union, which all of you, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA and other urban parties have supported and are now implementing for the creation of the three-pillar system of insurance with measures, such as limiting public pensions to a national hunger pension, which leads to forced recourse to private insurance groups, the continuation of work to death, while workers' contributions are offered as warm money in the pockets of the various investors. This requires the profitability of capital, and it is precisely to meet these needs that you legislate, as all the previous governments in our country, in the European Union, in depletion of any human age limit, so that the exploitation of the labour force continues beyond the physical limits, with an increase in the retirement thresholds in the seventies or seventy-two years, reducing and at the same time abolishing State social security expenditure, namely pensions, health, welfare, as for capital and the urban state which serves it, is considered to be cost, and also funds which will be channelled to all kinds of tax exemptions, tax exemptions and benefits to business groups. And it is precisely these European practices, which New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK are vowing to privatise and privatise health and welfare, while at the same time ensuring the gradual withdrawal of a state and an employer from their obligations towards insured and retired persons, while overturning supplementary insurance, which is the tip of the iceberg in the timeless eruption of the socio-security system, come to serve exclusively the major business interests of the private insurance and investment sector, which will undertake with the indebtedness of managing the contributions of young insured people. In addition, during the debate on the bill, the only ones agreed with the government are the large business groups, brokers, bankers and their various representatives. So pensions stop being protection and become investment, and those insured to investors. And since investments often fail, future pensioners can be converted into failed investors and found on the road. As for the strict rules you call for, tell the thousands of insured and private insurance companies who, instead of pensioning, became victims of the fluctuations in the stock index. In fact, in trying to convince you, you are claiming - and we have heard it many times in this Chamber today - that the bill for example provides for reducing the demographic risk threatening the incomes of future pensioners. But is it true that future pensioners, nowadays young workers, or not, are at risk from low-ranking, long-term unemployment, flexibility in the labour market, the unpaid ten hours that you recently legislated? And this risk will be paid even more expensively to their age, being within a private insurance system without social security guarantees, for example the lower pension thresholds. You are talking about ensuring higher supplementary pensions for future pensioners. It's a mockery, a challenge, and a disguised mockery. At a time when the system cannot even obtain a pension and the contributions will be gambled, you show it as the one that will give higher pensions. So we are now talking about a system called the official system of fixed contributions rather than defined benefits. In other words, although there is no commitment to the level of pension, it is challenging to show that it will also give higher pensions than the present ones. Truly, how can one appreciate from today in forty years how much will the gamble have yielded to guess the benefits? After all, the system of capitalisation also applies to professional funds, as is partly the case for the EIF, and the results are revealing, and the experience from the reserves of the funds that have been gambled over the past decades and have become the best witness to what is expected of young workers. Really, since you say they will receive higher pensions, why do you care through the bill to grant immunity to the members who will be chosen to run the fund, the EKRD, to manage the portfolios of individual portfolios of insured persons? You claim that the state will guarantee that pensioners will not get less than their contributions if it does not go well. If so, why is the possibility of choosing the risk - low, high - to the insured person, because he will not lose, as you are doing? You are talking about converting the insurance system into a lever for economic growth. In fact, the insurance contributions which are the sweat of the workers are given richly and slickly to finance investment. Indeed, it seems that the issue at issue is serious, since tens of billions - we have heard various figures today - that is, the contributions of the insured will heal capitalist growth without a commitment that pensions are guaranteed. And, of course, it is without prejudice that the government promises that the state guarantees the uninterrupted payment of the pensions of the current pensioners system, when the Ministry itself considers that the transition from one system to another and the interruption of contributions from the new insured will cause a financial gap to the EIF. But who's gonna load that void? It will be loaded on the backs of the taxpayers and the pensioners of the current system, who will see their pensions once more cut. Therefore, the escalation of the attack at all levels of our people's lives, the ruthless strikes on rights and conquests do not allow anyone to be illusions that things will get better if the workers themselves do not take the case of protecting their lives if they do not claim to meet their own and family needs, because they are the only ones who pay for social security and have the whole right to claim their full satisfaction. And for this to happen, confirmed by life itself, they need to give their strengths for larger, more mass, more decisive struggles, such that they make energies, governments and the parties that support them to see nightmares. In these struggles the JRC was, is, is and will be with the workers, pensioners, the people fighting and fighting to overthrow this unfair system of barbarism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Lambroulis. We've closed the fourth speaker circle. The curtain of the fifth cycle will be opened by Mr Anastasios Bartzokas from New Democracy. Here, Mr Bartzokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to start by saying that as a Member of this Parliament and as a young man I really feel it is unacceptable to hear in this House that the Armed Forces and the Greek Navy, who have for a long time reacted in a responsible manner, with responsibility for safeguarding our territorial waters, what the President of the Lt. has questioned at some point, and to say that these people, these children, the Armed Forces, have left us the Turkish 'Oruts Race' to make a cruise. It is, in fact, unacceptable and does not honor any of us for this to be heard in the Greek Parliament. Now, coming to the bill, I would like to say that every debate in this House should have as a starting point and as an inalienable precondition that all of us, the elected representatives of the Greek people, are speaking the language of truth, because it really means commitment, it means credibility, it means that citizens' confidence is not devastated and is not degraded. And if we want today to be fully consistent with this agreement of truth with the people - and we in the New Democracy are - we have to make some findings about insurance on the basis of the reform we have been discussing these days. Truly the first: on the issue of insurance, we have often given tests as a political system over time and, unfortunately, we have almost always failed. This is evidenced by a lot of evidence, by the fact that the insurance issue has operated several times as a time bomb that it has unlocked at the last minute, by the fact that the monumental marble has been carved over the weaknesses of the insurance company and, unfortunately, the pensioners have systematically paid it, but especially future generations, and by the fact that many times we closed our eyes to customer claims, undermining tomorrow's collective prosperity. We all admit that the concept of young people for retirement is zero. The'slowly not to retire' incorporates the deep disappointment of young people for the political system as a whole. The question 'we young people will be retired'. It also incorporates an underground cry of agony, which we hear in the government by implementing the policies of the future. For us tomorrow's prosperity is a very important issue, and today, in young people and young people who are struggling for their own future, we choose to respond with a policy that focuses exclusively on them. This is the draft law under discussion, a legislation exclusively for the new generation, an initiative that, with high know-how and digitisation, will gradually and without risk transform the current supplementary insurance system from redistributive to capitalisation. New entrants in the labour market and those who choose it by the age of thirty-five will create the staff pigeons of their supplementary pension by saving them their insurance contributions. They will be able to make their own choices about the investment profile they want to follow, determine in other words the level of return on their own investment, what subsidiary pension they will receive. Perhaps young people will abstain. So the national pension is affected? The answer is 'no'. Is the main pension affected? The answer, too, is 'no' again. After all, these two pillars of Greek insurance do not depend on the capitalisation system. They relate to macro-economic sizes, such as budgetary and growth. Is the supplementary pension itself affected? Again, not because it is explicitly predicted that the insured will receive at least the level of the contributions plus the fluctuation in inflation. Is it perhaps the pension scheme of the current, existing pensioners? The answer is still negative. The bill expressly provides that there is an absolute cover for these insured persons and that pensions will be automatically covered. Consequently, another question arises: Why is this bill presented as another mother of the fighting? Ordinary? Because we've already counted two other mothers of battle. The truth is not in the odourless complexes, which rather the Civic Opposition has. The truth lies in the fact that the Opposition, in particular, instead of investing in the future, invests in the cultivation of fear, the spread of lies, the communication fireworks, instead of investing in the vision of the best tomorrow, invests in eternal sleep of ideological debacles. Because for the Anti-Population we have been more likely to eat together than to apologise all of us by saying "we ate them borrowed from your own future" and above all because we cannot in any case accept that the change of insurance footwear is us in the New Democracy that we dare. We change the insurance hypothesis, you remain in the counterexample. So we boldly come to show that we are aware of our earlier inconsistency as a political system over the time of the new generation, committed by our responsibility for their prosperity tomorrow. Is this the responsibility done, as we from the question of the young 'we are going to be retired'? We're taking off the question mark. We put a definitive end to their sacrifices, what we are asking to do to feed the pensions of the former. With today's bill we are concluding a new social agreement, and we all know that social agreements are working as a basis for political regeneration as a whole. The date with tomorrow is now being closed with this social agreement, as we issue the certificate of an effective, transparent, efficient third pillar of insurance. To be honest, the New Democracy has always been consistent in dating with history, without ever calculating the cost. In the verdict of history, we will once again be there looking at young people in the eyes again. In the last two years, the Civic Opposition has lost a lot of such an appointment. But this time the non-support of this bill will not only mean that you are once again standing on the wrong side. It won't mean he's turning his back on the government. The lack of consensus on your part means that you turn your back on the young people in this country and this will be attributed to you. I therefore recommend that you do not do so and that you vote in favour of this bill, because social agreements go beyond the electoral cycles, party disagreements and intentions. But they cross the society vertically and horizontally, and that is why they need consensus and genuine consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr. Bartzokas. Mr. Ioannis Burnos is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and Mr. Chrysomalis is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, we have already known before the elections that the reformist triumph that goes from fiasco to fiasco and destroys everything that is in his hands has put social security under control. We are now seeing it with the delivery of subsidiary insurance to private interests with the compulsory capitalisation system. We have also seen it in the pan-Hellenic and disastrous bases of import that devastate regional universities, such as the University of the Aegean, in order to close sections and open up the work of colleges. This government only knows how to do in an adequate manner and how to dismantle rights and goods for workers from the labour market to health and education. It's not even about ideology. When neoliberal right sees public goods, he sees opportunity. When he sees insurance funds with a stable influx of billions of workers' contributions, he does not see a problem for reform. He sees an opportunity for easy business, for business without risk and trouble. He sees piled funds waiting for their allegedly exploited or simply plundered by the Golden Boys. That's what this is about. The ideology then comes for pretext and justification and goes along with the various technical studies and technocratic leaps. Tetchism in practice is endless enrichment and even enrichment from the predicament of social wealth - here of subsidiary insurance. This bill may be rejected by society and workers' bodies, but it is obviously not rejected by the directly concerned to benefit. Once again you will ignore the society that rejects and dislikes your choice because you believe that you have powerful sponsors that allow you to manage communication every reaction, although you will have already begun to understand that the reactions and resistances of society are not so easily managed, even from a historically unprecedented propaganda and interest service like the one made by your sponsors to make you government. The system that you are proposing of the pure capitalisation of subsidiary insurance in the hands of individuals has failed where it has been applied and applied basically in the countries of Latin America and the countries of Eastern Europe - not at all accidentally, obviously - that is to say - in countries which have had the misfortune to experience the implementation of many of these reform dreams by the most corrupt, authoritarian and greedy oligarchies. In recent years, parallel to steps of democratisation, the disastrous consequences have eventually been restored to public distribution systems. But you don't have the excuse that the neoliberals of the 1980s and 1990s used to invoke as the Prime Minister's father that they are following the global trend and experimenting with something - supposedly - promised. Today we know that these systems failed because they underestimated the cost of transition which public finances had high management costs and the uncertain and low returns on stock markets led to low pensions, especially in low pensions for women. It is misleading to confuse it with Europe's supplementary occupational insurance funds. Such funds are neither state-owned nor private insurance companies and have been built from the outset, i.e. without transfer costs, often over a century, by the trade unions themselves. Here, there is no provision in the administration of the EAEC for the classic tripartite composition of the funds, i.e. with the participation of the workers, and you leave them all at the discretion of the Minister. Private and compulsory investment in insurance resources, i.e. gambling, is in itself a scandal. You risk labor, sweat, life of the insured to make careers and enrich the managers of insurance companies. The risk of the capital markets is transferred to the backs of the insured persons. Of course, you hide a particular feature that has the investment gaming, that whatever the result, good or bad, the executives of the companies will receive their commission. They lose or win the insured, the gold supplies will be paid normally. The managers' wages and bonuses will be paid no matter what the result is, if things go wrong, if the stock exchange returns collapse, for example, we know what happens. The private individuals will ask the Greek State to rescue them, cover the damage without themselves putting the hand in the pocket and simply go to their next job and the next public wealth ownership project. After all, you are already providing for the permanent grant of the EAEC from the public budget and the guarantee from the Treasury's public funds. Only in this way would the institutions adopt such a dangerous reform, but only in this way - with the public backs - they know how business friends are. The cost of transition means that the public is being charged with a huge obligation of tens of billions, equivalent to the borrowing of a full memorandum, so that you can offer private insurance. The cost of transition will be borne by taxpayers and by public debt, in a country that has been kneeled by taxes and a world debt record. You dare even talk demographically about punishing young people and keeping them a future of flexible employment in poorly paid jobs, with obsolete public goods. Just because your experiments affect young people, but they also completely avenge so abhorrently in your solidarity with the generations, your reform will sooner or later have the end that she deserves, just as soon as a progressive government returns to the wheel of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much, Mr Burnus, for keeping time. That's a good start. Now Mr. Chrysos Miltiadis has the floor from New Democracy and Mrs. Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is being prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill could have been an opportunity for you to exercise a constructive and beneficial opposition, be an opportunity for you to gain serious and opposition credibility on such a serious issue. In fact, it would be an opportunity to be beneficial to Greek society from the role that has taken you and to help and to play an essential role in ensuring and strengthening the insurance system. Unfortunately, you didn't want to do it. We personally did not expect that from you, because we all know what your view of the concept of insurance reform is with the infamous Katorugalos law and the infinite problems it had created. All you have done is in your own practice to try to create impressions, to destroy the imminent collapse of the supplementary pension system and, of course, to hope in social unrest, protests and protests against the government's legislative initiative. Unfortunately, as you have seen, the people did not share these hopes, they do not share your mood for revolutionary gymnastics. And why? Because our fellow citizens are aware of the importance of this reform. Our fellow citizens understand what you do not understand, the need for a sustainable, stable and efficient supplementary insurance system, a system that ensures the payment of supplementary pensions to workers under the guarantee of the State, while enabling them to control their contributions and increase the subsidiary paid. Ladies and gentlemen, the current fully redistributive system of main and supplementary pensions is based on a particular fragile ratio of workers to pensioners. To be a sustainable system requires a ratio of three workers to a pensioner and, of course, a demographic growth that supports that ratio. Today, in our country, the proportion of retired workers is at 1.7 to 1, while demographic data by 2030 show a rapid demographic ageing, with EUROSTAT considering that we will be Europe's oldest country in a few years' time. Do you realize what that means? Do you realize we're in front of a bomb ready to explode? What is your proposal to address this problem? None! Or is it one you don't smear hard on? Will you try to solve the insurance through demographics, where the increase in demographics will achieve it with a policy of open borders and an uncontrolled immigration policy towards our country? We, because we are choosing the policy of closed borders and I mean a firm policy on immigration, so we are bringing this legislative initiative to a solution to the insurance problem. You leave the problem underneath the carpet and fatalistically expect the reduction of supplementary pensions or the disproportionate burden of the state budget to cover the difference. You are going to beat us to apply the capitalisation system only to subsidiary insurance - and I stress this - because the systems, which, as you argue, have failed, have failed because they have both been in subsidiary and main capitalist systems. We only put it in the adjunct. And of course, you have started the well-known chips, you are telling us very much about privatising insurance, gaming, over-transition costs that the state budget will bear, about dissolving state care in social security and intergenerational solidarity, but without presenting a single proposal, without considering and projecting a solution. You do not have a single proposal to address the current annual deficit in our insurance system, which everyone accepts! - it reaches about EUR 15 billion and you just shed crocodile tears for the transition cost of EUR 60 billion, EUR 70 billion in just a few decades. Really, don't you see it as a problem that's going to work for the next generations? Are there only next elections in your mind? To end with catastrophe and panic, ladies and gentlemen, things are simple: The social security system plays a major role in society. However, changes in the population, working conditions and the level of life create a need for frequent and continuous revisions. This is what we are doing today with the new Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, as provided for in the Constitution, with absolute guarantees for both the old insured persons of the existing system, that their subsidiary and the new members of the capitalisation system will not be subject to any reduction, because their contributions will be fully secured, because we are giving the possibility of individual money and the investment of any insured person and, in particular, with different profiles, in order to obtain a better supplementary pension, but at the same time we guarantee that if the above - and everything goes wrong, then the subsidiary that they receive will at least correspond to the amount of contributions they have paid in real terms, that is to say, their money will be repaid, taking into account the impact of inflation. In other words, we guarantee the capital of contributions by transferring the burden of investment to the State, precisely because we maintain the public nature of the system in the constitutional requirements. In addition, we give TECA members the opportunity to get their contributions back if they do not complete 15 years of insurance, while in the event of the insured person's disability or death under low contributions we give an additional pension which is at least 15 years of unskilled worker's contributions. Neither of these is currently true! Why don't you say something about it? Ladies and gentlemen, the capitalist system is neither ideoscopy nor neoliberalism. It is necessary that a need arises from the existing demographic conditions that the redistributive system cannot cover. It is necessary to deal with inequalities, unemployment and the new working environment. The government does not draw glaucoma, it comes up with what Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and many more countries already apply, namely a system of redistributive main and capitalizing supplementary pensions, but, here in our country, the latter guarantees the contributions of the insured. And that's the originality that's happening. It is a system that works and delivers high yields and we implement it in the best possible way in our country, guaranteeing citizens' contributions, giving way to demographic ageing and ensuring that our young people see their supplementary pension when retired. I think it was something that should concern you, see it with more maturity and, of course, vote for you too. In any case, the government continues its reform initiatives and we will all be judged on election time for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr. Golden. Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and Mr Fotillas is prepared. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is a very important bill that concerns all Greeks and perhaps has the most painful consequences in their lives from all the bills you have passed. And yet the Prime Minister's absence from this Chamber today, and as we know, he will not come here tomorrow. The absence of Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Tsakloglou, the State Secretary responsible, who has been defending this bill for too long and is not here to answer our questions, nor to follow the debate. He underestimates his own creation. Of course, this shows how much value you give the people to whom it relates. For Mr. Brutsi, we understand why he's not here. He is absent because he triumphantly triumphed a year ago that his insurance bill ensured the sustainability of the country's public insurance system by 2070. And of course, now is Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Tsakloglu to deny it. The study presented by Mr. Brutsis a year ago was by Mr. Tsakloglu and said that the insurance system is viable. I would therefore say that he also disproves himself and that is an inconsistency to be judged by the Greek people. The Government of New Democracy is putting the public interest at risk in order to serve private interests. The bankruptcy code was passed to serve the bankers. The working bill was passed to serve some big - time employers. Mrs. Keramea's bills were a gift to collegelors. The fraudulent weakening of the ESS and the current suspension of work for ten thousand health workers was done to serve as a gift to the clinical leaders and some contractors we will see next. So the new insurance bill, what you brought to the vote today, is a gift to private interests and big funds and your Golden Boys, which will gamble the insurance contributions of employees and pensioners. You have a plan organized and "final" to make Greece a special economic area in the European Union, with cheap flexible work, without social rights, with the weakening of the social state, whose insurance is a pillar. And you do it with courage and cynicism. You're making fun of it with a huge amount of irony to the Greeks. You are calling the bankruptcy code "second chance". We're talking about the bill that people will lose their homes, their first residence and all their property. You call the Labour Legislation 'Law on Labour Protection'. We are talking about the bill that effectively liberated redundancies, abolished redundancies - that will be seen by all lawyers in practice when they go to face a redundancies - optimized the job and legitimised the tenth hour. And you come today to call this bill "Reformation for the New Generation". We are talking about a reform that endangers both existing and future supplementary pensions. You say that young people will choose their investment profile. We're going to make them all invest. Youth contributions will be invested by your Golden Boys and if something goes wrong, then no one is responsible and the contributions are lost. There are infinite examples of collapses in our country too, such as 'ASP PROTECTION'. You say that young people will stop paying the pensions of their parents and grandparents. And yet, not only will they pay for their pensions, but they will pay twice, because they will pay once and for all to create their own reserve, their own 'guts' as you say - but they are not - they will pay as taxpayers if there is a deficit and they cannot afford the state to pay the current pensions. Why did you say? You said they'd be paid out of the budget. So the taxpayers will pay him. Twice will pay the young people. And, of course, you are not saying that the pensions of today's parents and grandparents live in the majority of young people in our country, because that is where you have become unemployed or have a low income and live from the pensions of their parents and grandparents, these pensions you are putting in danger. You say that it is essential to change the insurance system because the demographic problem and the ageing population must be addressed. Really? Really, Mrs. Undersecretary? What did your government and specifically your Ministry do to deal with the demographic problem to date? Did he increase the wages of the workers? Did he ensure that full-time contracts are stable? Did he motivate young people to have a family? Did he stop their dismissals? Of course not! Nothing! Young people today have no reason and can't have a family. No, they don't, but they can't. You're saying young people today think they'll never retire. That's true. But that is not why they believe this kind of insurance system in the country. If you do it capitalising, they won't believe they'll retire. Young people say that and they are afraid of it, because firstly they have no work to pay insurance contributions and secondly because they know that all these two major parties are "jogging" the insurance contributions and the insurance funds. The two major parties have the insurance funds as a rioter for victims of their abusive policies. That is why they do not believe they will be retired because they have no confidence in you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall be coming to an end. So you are blocking young people by forgetting the crimes you have caused with your policies, forgetting that you have not yet restored your illegality, such as the retrospectives you illegally and unconstitutionally cut off by pensioners. So, look at the retrospectives. Check to solve the problem of outstanding pensions, because you are basically creating a loan in the state from pensions you have not given to pensioners until now. It's three hundred thousand. And we are talking about pensions, basics and ancillarys. To close, because I don't have time, I'll say: What are you doing? You want to ensure growth using the insurance system, i.e. backwards. Normally, there should be economic growth in the country, and this should strengthen and ensure a sound public insurance - pension system, not 'jorge' the insurance contributions to bring economic growth. But the Lottofagos in Greek society have ended us, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. It is self-evident, fair and imperative that you get this bill back, that you do not "joint" with their lives, that you do not "judge" with their pensions and their future. We will be next to both the workers and all the insured and the retired, and we ask that you do not vote and get this abortion back. The world outside Parliament - you may not listen to it, you may not want to see it - is against what you are bringing today to vote. And if you don't listen to him, sooner or later you'll also suffer the consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Jason Fotillas from New Democracy is called in Stepma and Mr. Stoltides is prepared with Mr. Xanthopopoulou. Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are 'jogging', 'explore','serve capitalism and insurmountable neoliberalism'. These and other chips have been heard today in this Chamber. And one's gonna ask, "But why are you wondering? Is this the first time you've heard them?" Oh, no. But, believe me, it's not the same every time for some people, because well, the JRC has always said the same thing, it says the same thing now. We can fight for hours on an ideological level, but certainly we cannot blame them for inconsistency and inconsistency. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, do not understand the obvious, namely, that after almost five years of power, with two unpleasant memorials on the back and a referendum where the day was night, you must change political speech, if you want to maintain even a sign of seriousness. And since we are talking about seriousness, the question is one: is this reform necessary in our country today? You spoke, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, about the unconstitutionality of the bill, because we have not allegedly demonstrated the viability of the reform as the Constitution says. That's hypocrisy! But all we know for sure is that if something is unsustainable and over time it is more injurious every year today is the current insurance system. This is because of the demographic issue and the constant increase in the lack of confidence among young people in the public insurance system. And since we are talking about confidence, you have wondered, ladies and gentlemen, how many of our young people fear that they will not receive a pension in the future and how many people believe that even if they receive it will not be such as to ensure a decent living for them? Did you wonder what impact this has on black and undeclared work or toxic dogmatisms and your obsessions don't allow you? This bill comes in order to strengthen precisely this lost trust among young people with regard to the public insurance system. How? Improving considerably the prospects for supplementary pensions that they will receive in the future. How's that gonna happen? Converting a portion of the current social security system from distribution to capitalisation, while introducing the institution of the ‘individual coin’. What does that mean in practice? Instead of the social security contributions of young workers to be used to pay the supplementary pension for the current pensioners - that is, what is happening today - they will be saved and invested and this will create a reserve from which their future pensions will be paid. In other words, supplementary pensions receive a reward and restores the injustice between the generations. Because it is unfair for the existing social security system to be completely and exclusively distributed. And that's because it's extremely exposed to demographic risk. In this context, therefore, the climate of uncertainty and concern about the future of each new worker comes the current reform to enable young people themselves to gain control over their pensions. The new supplementary insurance system also introduces an additional innovation for our insurance system. The new insured will now have access to the elements of his "personal pigeon" through his computer screen or through his own mobile phone, so that he knows at any time exactly what his savings are, which will be guaranteed by the Greek State. With the "individual pigeon" system, on the one hand, we create a disincentive for black and undeclared work on the other, we strengthen the idea of saving by enabling investment and development. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you accused us of privatising social security. Is subsidiary insurance privatised by this bill? Clearly not. The new subsidiary remains publicly supported by the new fund set up, the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, which is set up as a legal entity under public law. Clearly public in its character. You also accused us of "jogging" - I heard it from many in here - the money of the insured. Really, have you ever seen gambling where the player's capital is guaranteed and guaranteed? You have ever seen any of the casinos, of which you have legislated and voted so that they can credit players indiscriminately until they get their underwear - remember what we are voting for and what we legislate in this House: this, in the 4512/2018 article 378, to be able to give and credit the players indiscriminately until they get their last cent. First time on the left! He came and replaced 4002/2011, which forbids credit in casinos. Remember and what we do in here - so have you seen any casinos that tell the player that "with what you're going to be the least with which you're going"? Because that's what's going on here, that's what's going on with this bill. The bill provides for a guarantee from the State of a non-negative return, which means that the contributions of the insured are guaranteed and under no circumstances will the insured receive a supplementary pension less than that of them, i.e. less than he would receive with the current insurance system. And he will be able to see this at any time through his "personal pigeon". And we went one step further: in the event that no one has completed 15 years of insurance in order to qualify for a pension, instead of his contributions being lost - that is, what has been going on so far - we are ensuring that their contributions are repaid as a whole. This is as far as the members of the new subsidiary system are concerned. Now let's take a quick look at the current insured and retired people of the current system. Are their supplementary pensions affected to a minimum? They're not affected at all. Indicatively, explicitly and unconditionally, the draft law guarantees that neither the payment of the supplementary pensions of the existing system will be affected. As far as the cost of the long-term transition is concerned, the officers of the Officerial Representation will deliberately overlook the 15 billion in the year with which the state supports pensions today, when the cost of transition is a few hundreds of billions over decades, about 120 million a year, without calculating the growth dividend from the investments that will result from the savings and revenues that will be generated. In conclusion, I would like to say that the government and the Prime Minister do not hide behind the enormous problems they have to face. They deal with them successfully, but they build Greece that we promised the Greeks, Greece of the 21st century, Greece that we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u302	And we thank Mr. Fotula. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The debate is by definition problematic since you are all talking about social security as if it were your own creation to save it. And it is necessary to say extremely insulting that the Minister's statement that the redistributive system as a conquest, part of social security, was to make theft of old people in young people rather than conquest, which was one of the largest in the working class, who won it with decades of struggle and paid for it with numerous sacrifices. What exactly did they conquer? We should give it to make it clearer, with the help of two numbers that are proportionally pressing today's reality. If we say ten is the value of what the worker produces in the month, they won one of the ten to take it on wages with collective labour contracts and decent life and another to take it into retirement, pharmaceutical care. And that's for everyone. It's the intergenerational solidarity we're talking about. In other words, they have conquered the coverage and protection of everyone from your rotten system that produces the victims of the unemployed, sick, crippled. The rest of the 8 continued to be pocketed by the "parasites" capitalists who produce nothing. Why did the workers manage to conquer these? On the one hand, because they have given hard struggles, on the other, because they have supported the socialist world, where the workers have decided to take their tens of value, by eliminating unemployment, by continuously reducing working time, continuously lowering the retirement age limits for all. So they enjoyed the last years of their lives qualitatively, without darkening, with full coverage for all their needs, health and everything else. Where can your deaf system now stand against such a system when it has such a counterweight? Before they took it, and the rest of the people were forced to retreat. But you just got rid of the socialist rocky, full of the attack to get everything back: and pay, by breaking collective labour contracts and the minimum, and pensions and allowances. In other words, while the evacuation of production, science and technology is organized and what is produced by the workers, the workers as a whole as value are no longer ten as decades ago, but twenty or even thirty, you have all ravaged all of you to remove these two proportional sizes of wages and pensions and put them back in the pocket again of these "parasites", the big shareholders of business groups. How did you plan to do that, get back the conquest of social security? By constantly increasing from one limit of retirement age, at the same time dismantling working relationships, so that no one can reach the foundation. Also, by persuading the insured to think only of himself, to make it easier for him to pocket the contributions for investments without a return guarantee, as is now the case with the subsidiary and whoever finally gets to the pension to tolerate being the pensioner's pension or survival. And so you invented the three-pillar system, you broke the pension into pieces to be more "confidential" and to chew it better. Main pension is now after forty years of work. Only EUR 384 guaranteed. Anything that might be from there and above the reward part of the main pension, which you will put into the eye the next time to put it into capitalisation, but also from subsidiary insurance, if the god puts his hand in the market and investment! You started the "bam" attack from 2000 with the PASOK, the Yannitsi law. That's what you brought back then. But then you have eaten your face from the millions of people who have flooded the streets and you and your GSEE who have gone to glean for social consensus and save you. You packed it up in vain. It took twenty years to dare again. Twenty years you were doing so by shedding, because the pension movement didn't let you breathe until the explosive mixture appeared, "Gaudi", the great architect of the social democracy, "Katrugalos", "Syriza", that is, the child of the system for all jobs, on mature soil to build it and do it together with the measure of the denomination of the funds, "Brutsi" and came into a ready dish to special missions, Mr. Hatzidakis. But why now? What territory did you decide to do this attack? After robbing the insurance funds and emptied them, with a loss of EUR 200 billion over the period from theft of the stock exchange, the loan and unsavoury to industrialists, the PSI, the structured bonds, sending out tens of cuts to main and ancillary pensions for the vast majority of pensioners. And now you are playing the last dirty paper of the intergenerational conflict, so that you can finally hand over the new insured, counting on their low experience and organization, counting on the fruits of their years of endeavor, which, from their birth, you are watering them in all ways with ideal individualism and partyism. So you think now that you have found the great opportunity, that you have found the absolute suckers to spend the whole of social security, the labors of their entire lives in the same hands as the reserves and the old pensioners. And you want this to be done with their consent so that you can get it over with with the mobilizations. And it's really a wonder what people you are after all? You know exactly what you're doing and what's gonna happen. The possibilities of the health system to cover all people with all science conquests, the possibility for restful and decent years in the pension, the possibility of protecting our people from fires, floods, earthquakes, the possibilities of producing work for all with much less hours and access to all the wealth produced, have you all taken this together and done what? Lower, swimming pools, villas and vaults for a hundred, two hundred, five hundred parasite business club owners who offer nothing to society. You have arrived to impose on workers since they are born and until they die to be an endless sacrifice and no break anymore to grow up and to study, after they pay more than they will get all the work done and to withstand as workers the work of the sun, without personal, family, social and wages that are almost enough to pay for Mr. Hatzidakis' new PPC, but also with pensions - an experiment of how much a person lives only with drugs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In front, then, in this size of sacrifice, it becomes clearer every day in more and more that the choice of sacrifice to overthrow this rot, this barbarism begins to look like a play. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u304	And we thank Mr. Stoltides. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a very important day for the Greek society today, precisely because the House opens up an issue that matters not only to the present day, but to the future and the end-of-the-end future and effectively restructures the presence of the generations, precisely because what we are discussing today concerns us as well as future generations. Minister, you take an initiative which is against what you have taught and what we have learned as a society to think. What is the nature of the insurance system? What's the insurance system? Is this a way to make money redundant or a way to secure people? This is the core, the central question we have to answer as a legal order and as a political person. In our view, this is what we call intergenerational solidarity. One generation comes in and throws in the pigeon to get the previous ones. The next ones will be here to get them. I understand very well how a neoliberal is literally irritated when he sees that he cannot invest this money. But we say so that it will be known and in the ears of the whole society that this money is not to make money and gamble. It's to guarantee the smooth succession of generations. And of course we also see supervisoryly and overall how you deal with it, what you do at the ESS and how you privatize parts of the ESS, what you do in education, how you get kids from the public university and send them to the IEKs. In Drama, we have the example of the Forestry School with zero successors, like the Fate Architecture School of Xanthi. And you come here now and with "problems" related to demographics and the failure to respond to the system. Put the cart in front of the horse. If the system does not go ahead - and we do not go ahead - to sit and see how we will make it progress, but in the direction of intergenerational support, not in the direction of saving them and throwing them into gambling and stock market. Some time ago I remember Mr Brutsis with an impulse to move us into a multipurpose study and to say: 'For the first time in the history of the insurance system, a sustainability study is presented'. What happened? Has it stopped? Have the data changed? The people who studied and extracted these results fell out so far? We have not heard a substantial response because this proposal, this study, is being abolished overnight. Secondly, we have agreed that the transition cost is 56 billion. Colossal number in a winter society. Who's gonna cover this? How will these 56 billion be covered? Do you understand what adventure you are putting the generations for a temporary gain and to confirm your ideological choice that this money should not be sitting? It says on page 10, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament: Ensurement by the legislator of social security as compulsory and, on the other hand, provision by the State or by the legal entities governed by public law is undeniable. The award of compulsory social security, both of the main and ancillary, to public bodies, State or legal entities governed by public law, was made on grounds of public interest and in particular as a guarantee to those who are obliged to insure or pay insurance contributions on business risks linked to the exercise of the insurance function by private operators. To overcome this intention you come and hypocritically institutionalise the operation of a legal person governed by public law which, after taking the money, will entrust them to experts and managers who will invest them willingly without being accountable and if the ship aboard, the state budget will resurrect to cover deficits. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. It is also the professional fund for which we can discuss and in which such fund management is appropriate, because it is a voluntary accession of professionals, and it is also the assistance of insurance. Supporting insurance must remain under public control in the public sector, with the guarantee of the public sector, and must not allow such games with the money of the insured. Nor should anyone forget that this money is the labors of life. It is neither a roll nor an opportunity nor a favourable circumstance in which anyone, and especially the legal order, can play. But as neoliberals, you get excited when you smell money. It is incomprehensible that this money can have another function, apart from the risk of investment and performance, and that you proceed to privatise the pillar of assistance and subsidiary insurance. "Let everything be privatised, let the sea and sky be privatised, let the water and air be privatised, let justice and law be privatised, let the passing cloud be privatised, let the dream be privatized, especially in case it occurs in the day and with the eyes open. And as a crown of all privatizations, privatize the states, finally hand over your own exploitation to private sector companies with an international competition. Because that's where the world's salvation lies. And since you have gone to the trouble, privatize the finale and the afflicted mother who gave birth to you!” Jose Saramagu. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u306	And we thank Mr. Xanthopoulou for the time economy. The speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Boubas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President. When we talk about insurance, we could start with what the ancient Greek philosopher once said, Xion Kitius: "Now I was prosperous when I was younger." I sailed well when I sailed. You are asking young people today to contribute to this capitalised subsidiary fund, ladies and gentlemen of the government, when reality on the market is completely different. The young man today, when he goes to work, tells his employer - I've said it before - "Don't keep any insurance contributions for me, because I'll never get a pension." It is unfortunately, you know, a situation in the labour market. And are you now asking them now for a piggyback, a compost you want to do, creating two or even three different speeds? 'Is the law in any other way an interest'? So the strong man who's got money to make a compost will additionally get a pension that the other man can't, because the badges in the month are only ten and the ones he can barely have, so that the employer can get them well? Because what does the employer do? He gets all over the place. He must pay the tax in advance, hunted by gods and demons. When you don't create a social background today and expect the other guy to retire for more than two years, are you asking him to trust a capitalist financial insurance system? And when you don't have a good witness outside? Because the depth is sinful, this background, to use the Anglo-Saxon title. See reserves of insurance funds on the stock exchange altar, see structured bonds that were a trick to get the world's money, see NAT that went bankrupt by the shipowners who robbed the dollars at the time of the sailors. And today you go and tell the fifteen thousand confessors who lost their money and are waiting to get money with bonded monopolies who invested in the Greek state in 2042. Tell the sixty-year-old who had purchased bonds and trusted the Greek state's guarantee that 88% of the bondholders - pay attention, please - were not informed by the banks at the time of the bonds for the risk they had to take. 30%, say the figures - from "VIMA" I have taken them - owe the public, 66% give their children money, over 60% have more than two children, 8% have physical disability, and these confessors who are Greek taxpayers have lost their trust, despite the promises of Evangelos Venizelos that they will be compensated as natural persons! It's fifteen thousand in number and they've lost confidence. And you're asking to make an ancillary fund when we don't have a structured social base! So listen and you know that an ideal insurance system is the one that has the timeless distribution system and, in addition, the reward, the capitalisation system. That's as good as it is. But this is where the two systems of global socialism and capitalism are responsible for the mistakes, the omissions, the sins they have done. Because what do economic analysts say? That the capitalisation reward system, which you want to make this piggyback, shaping various speed youths, despite high unemployment rates, has a positive sign and a negative one. We must go to the positive: it is saving. But we're going to the negative. What is it? The uncertainty. And that plays an important role. The timeless distribution system, which depends on the Gross Domestic Product - that is a truth - has the positive sign that is social solidarity, i.e. certainty, the foundations. What's his negative? That his government budget deficits need to be covered. Which one do you prefer? The certainty or the uncertainty? So when Churchill said that the disadvantage of capitalism is the unequal distribution of wealth and that the advantage of socialism is equal distribution of poverty, that is what we have managed, at the moment, to create an uncertainty in a social background that does not exist, waiting for the other to get five hundred euros, if he gets it, a pension for over two years. She'll get a deposit if she gets it. Although the Minister had gone somewhere to Corinth and said he would simplify. You're calling and nobody's answering. No one's answering. See where Mr. Georgiadis will join the collecting companies and they will call and tell the insured "you did not pay your subsidiary fund". If that's possible! And you expect people to have all this trust? You're making a reserve, you're making a capitalisation, but when you've created a strong foundation in a social state of payment of a distribution insurance system. It may be the ideal, but the country has abused the burning, the sweat of the people for so many years. We could make a historical regression, but it's not the present one. As far as SKA is concerned, it is an SKA, a social security system and its sins since the 1950s, with the forced law to which colleagues have been referred, is Law 1611/1950, which was forced law and ended in 1994, since tax evasion and avoidance of contributions we had shortcomings and we have reached 4 billion. It's not right. But they are sins and people cannot trust an ancillary fund when we ate the money! And they had losses over 53%. Because it became a retrospective of the Communist Party, it had before the PSI reserves of EUR 24 billion the social security system. Where'd that money go? With the pressures of the lenders, we lost over 50 billion. Of course, then we had the north of the Stock Exchange. We're creating a stock exchange product from a distribution insurance system. We're eating people's money, just to say, it's not structured, it's not socially rewarding power and aura, and we expect people to trust a capitalist system? Who tells you that their money over time will not be lost, as confessors lost it. It's simple. So when you don't have a good past - because the past, according to philosophers, is the future that comes from another door to insurance - you can't ask people's confidence to move on to the next step, into a capitalist system - pigeon for young people up to thirty-five years old, creating different speeds when you, as a state, over time by the governments that have been in power, have not created a social background for his money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Where's the one? Are some civil servants looking for it and you expect people to trust the money lost since 1990? Not that he did not have the insurance system before, as it depended on the Bank of Greece's average interest rate, which has always been lower than the average bank interest rate. That's why you're creating something, but he can't today...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u308	Finish, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u309	I shall conclude, Mr President. It reminds me of a structure that we seal the door and do windows. I mean, the structure has windows, windows in the insurance cover, but the door is tightly closed. You can't do that. You're asking to lift up a floor above when the foundations of the building are not that they are on a loose ground, but there's not a grid in it. The grid is social solidarity, it is that the money of the world must catch a place and wants it not to be deprived of it. So it cannot have confidence in what we want to translate into the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr. Booba. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Dimitrios Haritou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, neither yesterday's political fiasco of reformism nor the silence of the media can hide your criminal decision to undermine the public distributive security system of solidarity between generations, giving subsidiary security to private interests. With you, gentlemen, words have lost their true meaning. In the name of upgrading the level of study with the minimum import base, do you drive forty thousand new customers where elsewhere? In private interests, in colleges. The public health system raises the burden of pandemic. You obsessedly insist on how to put private interests through PPPs into the public health system. I was just informed that the ICU of the Komotini Hospital is in danger of closing because of your punishing logic of job suspensions. You have, gentlemen, dissolved working relationships to the benefit of private employers. Protection of work, you baptized the law you passed, gentlemen. You're doing the same now. You deliver subsidiary insurance to private interests and appear as the lifesavings of the insurance system at risk of its viability. What is public, what has to do with the social state, you despise it. It doesn't fit into your neoliberal political plan. That's why you're undermining it. A few months ago, did you not assure Mr. Brutsi that the insurance system was solved once and for all, that you ensured its viability and the adequacy of benefits? What's changed? Weren't you the ones who proudly showed us the certificates you obtained from the European Commission on the sustainability of insurance by 2070? Wasn't it your pension adequacy study? When, gentlemen, did you tell us the truth and when lies? Then or today when you are trying to appear as unsustainable insurance in order to proceed to privatise subsidiary insurance? Indicate the demographic and the risks to the insurance. I heard at noon and the Minister. How about you? Are you the ones who have made progress in deregulation of work, in cheap and flexible employment, with dramatic consequences for the contributions and revenues of the insurance funds? Instead of being quiet and ashamed of all this, do you invoke demographics? What don't you understand, gentlemen? That with today's choice, you have doubled your insurance, both in the demographic problem and in the risk of financial markets? With the capitalisation system you introduce you fully assume responsibility for gambling insurance contributions on stock exchanges. When, in fact, the law does not exclude high-risk financial products such as structured bonds and mortgages, do you not understand the risks? So easy to forget? Did you forget the damage suffered by the insurance funds from the structured bonds? Have you forgotten the bankruptcy of the insurance company "ASP PROMOTION", which left the insured out? You can guarantee absolutely nothing to the young people insured. They will only know that they put in the money box, in the fund, they will know what they will pay as a tax burden to cover the gap in the existing insurance system. They will not, however, know what they will eventually receive as insurance cover. The sure thing is that they will receive much less than they would receive from the current distribution system that you want to overthrow. So stop mocking young people and cultivating false hopes. Answer the young people and the current pensioners how to find the funds, the gap in the 56 billion insurance funds, which will reach 75 to 78, if the guarantees of the new system are taken into account. Answer, gentlemen, in a long-term recession, the state with limited revenues what will first be called to cover? The gap in the financing of the old system, that is, pensions or the difference between the low level of gambling performance and those you are supposed to guarantee with the new system? You irresponsibly, with ideological references you claim that, using the resources of the new insurance policy, you will create an investment climate, growth and cover the insurance gap. This work, gentlemen, unfortunately, has been played again and had a dramatic end. For over fifty years you have put the money of the insurance funds in hand to finance maritime loans for entrepreneurship, the economy and at the end you have gone bankrupt in the rocks, the memoranda and the board. You left the insurance funds with a big black hole. So leave the fine words, the drawings on paper. You've been tested and failed. Nothing, but nothing can you guarantee, only to put on new adventures the insurance system, which you found stable by the government of SYRIZA, as well as worsening the public debt of the country, which has been regulated for many years by the previous government. You are creating, gentlemen, a fund - a centre for interacting and corruption with foreign interests. If the hundreds of people you predicted on the fund were hired to EVCA, you would give a big breath to make the pension version progress faster. You are lying that you are allegedly making use of international and European experience. Those countries which, in particular, Latin America and the East, had adopted this capitalist system, abandoned it and returned to the public insurance system. I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, with your current law, you are putting a night bomb on the foundations of the public service insurance system, the solidarity of the generations, and also in the economy of the country. It is certain that the consequences of your criminal choices will be borne by the pensioners themselves, the insured young and old, and of course the taxpayers. The sooner the workers perceive this the easier a new progressive government with a trunk of SYRIZA will be able to deactivate this bomb with the least consequences, with a new reform of the insurance system in favour of the majority of society and the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr. Haritou. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mrs Catherine Papanatziou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a heavy summer is leaving, a difficult winter is coming. The country looks like an ungrateful ship left at the mercy of the weather. The government insists on its friendly tactics of individual responsibility towards any circumstances, individual responsibility for pandemic, individual responsibility for fire, individual responsibility for pandemics now and in insurance. The captain left forsaken, and for the shipwreck he blames the waves. Today we are discussing another bill of law by the Government of New Democracy under the periphery 'Security reform for the new generation'. Mr. Mitsotakis and his Government have taken as many as any young people and young people in this country and are now doing so with titles. From targeting the spread of pandemic to wood on the square benches, from the devotion of the dreams of forty thousand young people left outside the university schools to the complete dissolution of their insurance future and work today the distance is a government of the New Democracy road. There is no sector in which this government has put its hands and has not had disastrous consequences for society. Health, education, employment, environment, economy all north to private interests. Now you are giving private and subsidiary insurance. Your government and your Prime Minister proceeded with the complete deregulation of labour relations, provided a premium for cheap and flexible work with dramatic consequences for the contributions and revenues of the insurance funds. He condemned young people and young people in economic and labour precariousness at the moment and now comes to condemn them as well as pension insecurity in the future. So, what are you doing with this bill? Grow the contributions of the young people insured. Instead of financing the supplementary pensions of today's pensioners, they will be saved in an individual pigeon and they will be invested. In other words, the insured person's money will constitute investment funds with the same risk either on stock markets or on non-regulated markets, while the draft law does not exclude investment in derivative financial instruments, i.e. high risk, such as structured bonds and mortgage bonds. Investments, i.e. which led to the bankruptcy of the insurance company ‘SPA’ or insurance companies in America while awakening memories of the structured bond scandal and of the insurance funds. So what if the investments of the Greek people's money do not thrive? The Minister claimed that the insured will receive the contributions they have paid back. But what the Government does not artificially mention is that the reimbursement of contributions will have nothing to do with the supplementary pension of the distribution system. The amount of the refund will depend on life expectancy and a number of other demographic factors. In practical terms, therefore, supplementary pensions will be clearly reduced compared with current levels. Two-year period is provided for the future of insured thieves, but the present one is also. Your ideas create holes in the state budget. You recharge taxpayers. You are making today's pensions insecure. You are imposing the capitalisation system, so the contributions of young insured people will not cover today's pensions. This creates a huge gap in their financial coverage of over 56 billion that may reach all 75 billion and 78 billion. The pensions, therefore, are not secure as long as the cost of transition is not met. In the event of a new crisis, taxpayers will be charged with double costs in order to fill the gap. So you tell us, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the conversion of the insurance system is a one-way road because of the demographic problem, and you tell us in practical terms that the current distribution system is not sustainable. We know the insurance reform of the SYRIZA government that led the public social security system to respond to the challenge of stability and adverse demographic forecasts for our country by 2070. But you too, the New Democracy Government, a year and a half ago, brought to the parliament a proportionate study proving the viability of e - EBRD. The then Minister of State at the time, Mr Brutsi, said that he had solved the insurance issue for ever, ensuring sustainability and adequacy of benefits. He also received approval from the European Union, which confirmed the viability of the insurance system by 2070, as he said. So answer us who is lying. Was Mr. Brutsis lying a year and a half ago, bringing misleading studies, or is Mr. Hatzidakis lying today? Because both can't be. Gentlemen, the majority of the countries that have implemented capitalist schemes over the years have abandoned them. They found that the risk of capital markets was transferred to workers, insured persons and pensioners. Only the private companies managing savings were won. So what do you pursue? It is now clear that you are not interested in the substance. Insurance, as well as education, health, work are a glorious profit for the interests you serve. You are carrying out a policy of the brute type, where the individual prevails over collective social benefits. You are preparing a zealous future where the social majority will fight helplessly and alone to ensure the basics. Contrary to a small elite everything will be easy, accessible and open. After all, as Mr Mitsotakis himself has said, a society without inequality is contrary to human nature. Easy statements when you have everything while you deprive everything from your side. But we're not all the same. In closing, your responsibility is exhausted in the narrow circle of financial interests you serve. Our responsibility is against the whole society that is so hard tested by your choices. We will not allow you to level the achievements of an entire historic era. We will stand against the social majority for a world of equal opportunities that fits us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mrs Papanatsiou. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Maravegias, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the social security reform for the new generation is not only the objective of this bill, but above all a question of Greek society, a society that has seen for years that the current system of subsidiary security no longer meets the expectations of young workers. Proof of this is the extent to which black and implied work has even taken place, which means that we must at last give a substantial incentive to young workers to participate in subsidiary insurance. This is exactly what introduces for the first time the legislation of the Ministry of Labour, the insurance autonomy of the worker, that is to say the freedom to choose himself and not the e-FCA, the performance of his personal money and the guarantee of his transparent management. To this end, we are creating the new ancillary fund, the EEKA, a body governed by public law, but flexible and innovative, with digital services to the worker for the course of the staff of the e-banking insurance account, giving a clear picture of the course of each available insurance package. In short, the new fund offers freedom of choice for more efficient management of contributions and safeguarding individual investment which at the bottom of the script is also the personal property of each employee. The reform of supplementary social security in our country, Minister, is more than necessary. This is a branch of the so-called additional insurance, which, as part of today's e-ECA, is facing major problems: its medium-term financing, which is abrupt to the over ten-year financial crisis, its long-term financing due to major demographic changes, the huge administrative burden of e-ECA, resulting from mass - and non-organised - mergers of the Katrugalos Act and, above all, the downward course of the average amount of supplementary pensions, particularly after the application of Law 4387. So the creation of the TEC is coming to respond to these crucial issues, so that the new generation can get real supplementary pensions and not tips, with the guarantee of the state and of the new subsidiary fund itself, since this will have the form of a legal person governed by public law and, therefore, it will be a part of public social security. And here there is a very important element that was not in the Katrugalos Act, and this is the double guarantee offered by the TEHA to its insured: first horizontal guarantee to pay a minimum supplementary pension to all future pensioners and second additional guarantee to pay full pension to the beneficiaries for invalidity or death of the insured person. The first guarantee means that the supplementary pension cannot correspond to a sum less than the contributions paid, taking into account also inflation. The second additional guarantee means that all beneficiaries with disabilities will have a full pension even with less than fifteen years of insurance. In other words, the state is coming and says: To prevent workers or their relatives from receiving reduced pensions or being called on to buy the time of insurance for the completion of the 15-year period, which would obviously be a burden on them financially, the state ensures that those who suffer from such insurance risks receive a full pension. But what does SYRIZA say about all this? SYRIZA's rapporteur claimed that the state was wrong to enter with Articles 8 and 60 as a guarantor of supplementary pensions, because these guarantees would unjustifiedly burden the state budget - and, of course, SYRIZA says so - whether we are talking about pensioners because of old age or death or even of our disabled fellow citizens. It is therefore something that the workers must listen to, and that is why we will constantly repeat it, the new members of whom SYRIZA refuses any future supplementary pension guarantee. This is, therefore, a huge return of SYRIZA to the crime scene, to the law of Katrugalo. He pretended that SYRIZA had forgotten him in recent years, but now the Census is coming back unrepentant. Re-establishes its activities as a government of 2016, when SYRIZA voted for L.4387 without guarantees for neither a minimum nor a full supplementary pension. It is the same party that in words has always been hypocritical about public social security, but in practice it gave the first supplementary pensions of EUR 16. So how much less can, my fellow Member, be those pensions that are tips? So today, without shame, the Mitsotakis Government's guarantees to new supplementary pensions are unjustified, because they are, he says, unjustified. But that is what the Greek people must know, which, ladies and gentlemen, you are constantly mocking. People need to know that SYRIZA is against the state pension guarantee and that, if you become a government again, pensioners may reenter new dangerous adventures. With this bill, then, the New Democracy is coming to give the young generation perspective, but above all the social security prospects of the next few years, to solve long-term problems, so that young insured real pensions, rather than the katrugalo tips, are given an incentive for today's and future workers to get insured by leaving black employment, to make use of their insurance contributions from young people themselves, but with added value and guarantees offered by a public insurance fund. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this, unfortunately, the prophecies we heard from the Opposition on the destruction of the world of work, which is allegedly being carried out by this bill. SYRIZA's rapporteur has anticipated a great social response and mobilisation ahead of his vote. And that kind of cassantry - let me have the term - forecasts we have heard from the opposition. The question, however, with these predictions, is that their repetition is not justified and is not justified by those who claim them. As in the working draft law we heard from the left scripts on the world's culmination, which eventually never came, and now workers are refusing once again to play the role that you reserve them, and that is why society itself seeks insurance reform for the new generation. It has been asked for decades and the current government has come to meet this social demand by discussing the upgrading of subsidiary insurance. That is why the New Democracy is voting in favour of this bill and leaves the destructors to the fair judgement of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u316	And we thank Mr. Maraveya. The speaker of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Eleftherios Avramakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a critical bill at a difficult time when the country is experiencing a multi-faceted and multi-level crisis. We are talking after a remodeling - fiasco and the confession of failure of your policy. The dismissal of the ministers who have handled the pandemic crises and the fires tells us that your state's accomplishment has failed miserably. We are discussing the bill at a time when more than six thousand health practitioners, doctors and nurses, are being suspended from work, when a year ago you were applauding them from the balconies and when the HSH is deceiving and in the middle of the fourth wave of pandemics is being disapproved by staff, while just today Mrs Angelopoulos denounces that the IMI beds that the Committee donated by Greece 2021 remain inactive due to a lack of staff and calls on the new Minister for Health and the Prime Minister to operate them, so that even a human life can be saved. We are talking at a time when Mrs Kerameos leaves over thirty thousand children outside EHF, at a time when twenty-three thousand people are left out of mass sport programmes due to the freezing of funding for the first time in history - it has not occurred in the years of the memoranda - at a time when eighty-three thousand children, that is, one in three, are left out of children's stations and CSR, at a time when social cohesion is threatened by the rapid increase in energy, fuel, raw materials and commodities costs, at a time when society is stirring up by recession and accuracy and the government is insisting on alternative and anti-development policies. For many years the government has brought a law against the interests of the majority of the Greek people and in favour of private interests, in this case in favour of multinational private insurance companies. With arguments eva, with half-truths and a disinformation mechanism in full operation, it is trying to pass an insurance reform that will cost multiples to all taxpayers, today and at least 50 years. This is a cost which is unthinkable that will be able to reach the EUR 78 billion in a country that remains highly indebted and which will soon be called upon to pay the cost of the pandemic, a cost which the government deliberately underestimates. The government claims that the full cost of this reform will be covered by the growth that the country will have in the next few decades. Even if we overlook the fact that any anticipation of the recovery of the Greek economy even before the full impact of the economic consequences of the pandemic has been reflected, the government is in fact claiming that any growth after a more than ten-year debt crisis will not ultimately benefit the severely tested Greek people over the years, but will be wasted to fill the gaps in the insurance system that the New Democracy is trying to create with its insurance reform today. The New Democracy today is not just trying to abolish solidarity between the generations on which the current insurance system is based, it is not attempting to redeem the redistributive social security system for the benefit of insured and future generations. The New Democracy is attempting to bring about a breakthrough that will bring serious consequences to both current workers and pensioners and young workers who are supposed to serve. Today's bill, unfortunately, reminds us of the way in which the bank executives of the overriding loans, including the New Democracy, have been justified for decades, which has neither repaid nor naturally intended to repay, neither the New Democracy nor of course its Chief. As New Democracy was bailing on the party's future state funding, so today it is trying to commit and borrow, i.e. to take out public funds invoking future growth. It calls on the citizens to finance a capitalised insurance system which has as a sure consequence, firstly, the reduction in the income of insurance funds currently covering the cost of supplementary pensions of thousands of pensioners, secondly, the gradual nullification of the income of the subsidiary fund which will cover the supplementary pensions of all existing workers, thirdly, the creation of a financial cost calculated at least at least 78 billion, and which will be called upon to pay back all of the taxpayers, the excessive burden on the current workers and pensioners, who after having survived with the taxes and levies which have paid the same contributions, the PSI, the Memorandum and the catastrophic political insurance funds will be called upon to pay again for their pensions the excessive burden of workers who will be forced to pay for the same contributions, but they will also pay off the major financial gaps, but they will have to have to bear their pension costs and will have to bear their pension costs when they have at least incurred a place of their pension. They will bear the public debt burden of 49% from 2040 onwards, i.e. the time when public debt obligations would significantly decrease. The government which publicly refuses the high financial cost of privatising supplementary insurance practically commits 0.5% of the GDP promised by Mr Mitsotakis that he will make available to the low-pensioners against the SYRIZA's thirteenth pension that he abolished to pay back finally to the Golden Boys which he will place in the new subsidiary insurance fund. Approximately EUR 900 million per year will be allocated by the State budget for operating costs, works contracts with private individuals awarded by the new administration of the fund to private individuals without any control and without any rule applicable to the public sector and, of course, to the bonuses of the staff of the new fund. As for transparency in the recruitment of staff, the well-known doctrine of party integrity is restored, since it is the Minister who will appoint the board to select the administration and then the administration will operate without any control. At the same time, by repeating its regular practice, the Government of New Democracy is giving back advance immunity to all the members of the new fund. He is well aware - it seems - that despite what he claims, the disastrous consequences of this policy are beginning to be revealed and when the insured begin to find their deception there will be thousands of sues against all those who are chosen to gamble out the money of the workers. The doctrine of individual responsibility and pensions, which the government is trying to impose, will not pass, as the other individual responsibilities which the New Democracy and the Prime Minister themselves distribute to the Greek people have not passed to the public. We have individual responsibility for pandemic, individual responsibility for fires, individual responsibility for poverty, individual responsibility for wage cuts and flexible labour, individual responsibility for pensions. For the New Democracy, it is only the Greek citizen who is responsible for all evils, individually, and never the government with the inertia and diligence with which he is proclaiming it. However, the time is coming when the Greek people will collectively return all these individual responsibilities to New Democracy and relieve the country of the worst government of post-multiple, once again assigning responsibility for reconstruction and exiting the crisis to the progressive forces and to the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. This bill, as well as many others that the outgoing Minister Vroutsi has tabled, and today Mr Hatzidakis, we will, in practice, abolish it, at least the provisions that are counterweighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr. Avramakis. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Papanastassis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. The New Democracy Government today, with its draft law under discussion, institutionalises the robbery of workers, aiming at the clear financing of capital, gives large companies a dilute sum to gamble without the workers themselves to guarantee whether or not they receive a pension, but also how much pension they receive. Of course, the gambling of workers' contributions to their pension funds is not a Greek phenomenon. It was a succumbing desire for capital and its governments on every side of the planet and you have all put your hand in a step - a step to date, the New Democracy to implement it in our country. Today's monstrosity is not the birth of a neoliberal government, as SYRIZA claims. They put their hands on all governments, as they call themselves, right-wing, centre-right, left-wing, that is, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA with an orchestra of course the Greek bourgeoisie, the big capital. As a result of this rupture, the government invokes the ageing of the population. It's an extremely convenient alibi. The capitalist system, however, like the gaming of the reserves, has not solved the demographic problem either. Societies do grow old. However, this has reasons and causes. The causes of fertility cannot be searched outside the system itself and the capitalist way of production. He is the one who condemns new couples to insecurity without income and inability to support the family, while his care for older people begins and ends in inhuman increases in retirement age and in privatization of any welfare. These are the conditions created by your policy, the policy of all of you. So let go of the crocodile tears. PASOK - KINAL today blames the government for favouring only the fund management companies and private insurance, its privileged interlocutors, as it says. However, the Reppa Act, in 2002, of PASOK, was, with admirable professionalism, putting private insurance as a key pillar of the system. The PASOK, too, was seeing the New Democracy legislated on the Repappa laws, as they in turn used the Sifa law. The PASOK was ready at all times to contribute to the chain of production of reinsurance laws. The PASOK once advertised the dialogue with the workers for the voluntary extension of active working and working life. It was when Prime Minister George Papandreou said: "The extension of each individual's survival time opens new opportunities to exploit human resources. After 60, after 70, there are still productive years." That was your policy then, that is today. And SYRIZA's turn is coming to rule. The Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Deeply obliged to integrate it into the so-called Katrugalou law. It also applies the zero deficit clause, which means that pensions are granted according to the economic situation in which the fund is located without any guarantee for them. And today, behind the fireworks on Pinochet politicians, SYRIZA is asking for the support of the professional funds brought by the PASOK Reppa Act and then supported by the New Democracy. Moreover, the insurance Pinochet, which SYRIZA charges exclusively to the New Democracy, is the one of the three pillars, which his own government promoted by the Katorugalo law and is implemented throughout the world by social democrats and neoliberal governments. Today SYRIZA is trying to present itself as a power of charity and a protector of labour rights, but does not deceive anyone. He faithfully served his capital policy that sought and sought cheaper labour, hitting labour, insurance and pension rights, and of course the orchestra of all these catastrophic laws for the workers of reinsurance is the European Union. For example, the individual pigeon currently brought by New Democracy directly refers to the 2012 White Paper, which aimed to the domination of private insurance systems, regained the effectiveness of pension systems in the individual case of each insured person, but also to the connection of the increase in life expectancy with the corresponding increase in retirement age limits, because otherwise it said "we do not go out". And as one brings, the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs of the European Union on the ageing of the population of the continent is well known and recent. It was approved in July that passed us. It characterises active ageing as an optimal European practice, as they call the extension of working life. After working life, they will nail the lid to the workers in their coffin. That's the prospect they're given. That makes sense, isn't it, with the bad pensions they prescribe? What are the main elements of this report? Prolongation of working life, withdrawal of the state from any responsibility for the elderly, development of profitable activities for the sale of goods and services needed by the elderly. Of course, the JRC MEPs voted against it. Who voted for it? The MEPs of the New Democracy and the PASOK - KINAL, while the SYRIZA MEPs, recognizing in the report their own anti-government legislation as government, were conveniently placed with the white. In fact, highlighting the obvious and hidden targets of the reinsurance bill is endless, and its consequences are disastrous for workers and pensioners, young and older. The government needs to find a wall in front of it. It is a duty to resist workers, pensioners, all those who experience the application of anti-grass laws. But, as is the duty of both workers and pensioners, the resistance and the retreat of every anti-population attack, it is also essential that the organization of the struggle, in front of our current needs, our own and our children, is also needed. The Communist Party of Greece was, is, is and will be front in this race.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr. Papastasis. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is one of the most centralised bills, since it concerns the reform of the supplementary insurance system, and it concerns the transition to a system implemented in several advanced states of the world. It is a gradual conversion of the ancillary insurance system from redistributive to capitalisation for each new insured person, each new entrant, and for each insured person up to thirty-five years who chooses it. It is a model that will lead to higher supplementary pensions for the new insured, while ensuring that old insured persons are not affected at all that they have already established. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, already from the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki in 2018, had put insurance reform as a basic parameter of our planning positions, a new model for Greece that should have been implemented as in other states for decades. This model has three pillars. The first pillar concerns the main basic pension, the state guarantee, which is based on a distribution system where the current insured pays the current pensioner. In the second pillar, a pillar which forms part of the new system is introduced, the individual pigeon allowing young persons to save and gain greater control of their supplementary pension. We are essentially referring to the possibility of selecting the insured person in the new Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund of an investment profile of his own. It is a pillar with purely capitalising criteria with which, in addition to the main national pension financed and still to be financed by the State, pensioners will also have their personal subsidiary pension. Regardless of investment progress, however, the final pension may not be less than that which corresponds to the total contributions paid by the worker. And only the third pillar will concern private insurance and will be optional. We are thus implementing, with this draft law, another one of our key pre-election commitments, for which we have been instructed by the Greek citizens, and we are moving one step further forward, after the important intervention of our Government by L.4670 of 2020 for the main pension, which has corrected several of the problems of the Katrugalo Law, a law that promoted work as punishment and turned the insurance system into a substantial tax system. Now with the new insurance we can clearly say that the work not only does not penalise, but ensures that every worker is able to get back all that he has worked for. This reform is obviously annoying the opposition, as the government does almost what the government proposes. It baptizes this reform as a privatisation of the insurance system. But we have said so before, if you want to criticise, to do so on the basis of fact, because how is insurance privatised since the new Capital Insurance Fund will be a legal person governed by public law? Because he's gonna invest the money in the private sector? This shall in no case dissociate the public character of the system. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that one of the most serious problems in our country is demographic. This problem has been particularly stressed in a European Commission report since 2015. It is a pre-existing and constantly growing issue, as our country is showing a stable and gradual and significant decline in population and at the same time a stable ageing. In 2030, in less than ten years, we will be the oldest country in the European Union, even beyond Italy. It cannot be disputed that the insurance system is affected by the demographic situation. The ratio of workers to pensioners is now 1.7 to 1, while the system was structured several decades ago, namely in 1950 at a ratio of 4 to 1. The contributions of the employees concerned are no longer saved, but they are spent on the current pensions and the young people are the losers of a system that leads to a total depreciation. The data, therefore, have changed with the result that the current workers are considered as second-class pensioners. If the reform were not to take place, it could be done by reducing pensions, as SYRIZA did fifteen times. I should just like to remind you of the reduction of the subsidiary up to 50%, the abolition of the CSCE, the retention of the retrospectives for one year and the increased contributions for health. That's what SYRIZA did. The Government of New Democracy is not doing it. Otherwise, the treatment would be done with bold words or predictions, because Mr. Tsipras at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki in 2018 as Prime Minister of the country then said that there is no need to reduce pensions, which, of course, he did, because the abolition of the personal difference concerns pensioners who were over seventy years old. So any cost cuts will disappear over time, that is to say, the problem will be solved physically. And I am tabling the relevant statement in the Minutes then by Mr Tsipras. [[At this point Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must all realise that the change in the system regulated by this draft law is extremely necessary. The new system which will start from the beginning of next year is a system followed by many advanced states. Indeed, in countries such as Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands, Denmark, the percentage of workers covered by pension schemes is more than 80%. The new subsidiary insurance remains in public. No one will receive a supplementary pension lower than that which corresponds to the contributions paid. This reform will not affect either the payment of supplementary pensions, but does not imply an increase in contributions, the amount of which remains at 6.5 to the middle of 2022 and then is 6%. The new system we have to support is based on a sustainable subsidiary insurance, a insurance that the insured's money will be invested, but also guaranteed with the benefit of the insured and the country, a reform - an incentive for the new generation that will definitively change the perception of every young person who deserves the right to pension while at the same time giving the already insured, a reform that contributes to the country's development track and improves state revenues, a reform that, for the first time in the last thirty years, attempts to change the data with a look at tomorrow, with a look at the new generation. I therefore urge you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u322	We thank Mr Nikolakopoulou. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Theodores Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will immediately enter the debate on the supplementary insurance bill, but I consider my moral and political debt to be denounced and protest the progress of this morning - or since last night - with the disgraceful attack on Admiral Vangelis Apostolakis' prestige by the government staff, his media and his primary officials. The personal defeat of Mr. Mitsotakis over the past few years, especially in reconstructing, cannot be covered with this misery against Vangelis Apostolakis, who, when he understood the method of undermining the prestige and the Officerial Reconciliation through an orderly process, refused to co-exist, and therefore accepts all this attack today, which is also characterised by misery and immorality and risk to important issues at stake. It's not the first sample. Already in recent months, and Prime Minister Mitsotakis, it has been evident that he is losing the ground under his feet with constant gaffes, but also with the government and government policy. A factor which can be considered to be linked to this development is also this immigrant, accelerating and awkward acceleration of the vote on this supplementary insurance bill in conditions that do not at all guarantee social dialogue and a serious political dialogue, corresponding to the issue of this bill. And it is not surprising that so many contradictory signs exist within the government of who chose and who chooses the content of this bill, as I remember - and I remember it very well because I had denounced it from the Step of the House - in 2018 a delegation of New Democracy departments at the time, which was counter-population - are not now the protagonists of this initiative - all three went to the offices of the Association of Insurance Companies. They did not accept the administration of the Association of Insurance Companies at the offices of New Democracy, but they went themselves and with press releases official that they themselves reported that at a long meeting they discussed with the Association of Insurance Companies the future of the insurance system of Greece and the main and secondary pension. The protagonists at that time don't play a part today. Mr Hatzidakis took this role - no accidental - pathogenous, neoliberal, in favour of privatisation. What I really don't understand, Professor, Mr. Chacloglu, is you because you got involved in this story, because I'm too young to judge your scientific authority. The students will judge it, the scientific community will judge it, but here science comes to make a applied policy. And if it is possible for the insurance system to be studied in terms of viability, in terms of efficiency, in terms of one, in terms of the other interpretation of all parameters, in bulkheads, which affect the economic development of the country. What studies are those that can be adequate, even technically, rather than on request, when they do not include the country's future developments, the capacity of the global economy, unemployment, demographic and how it is dealt with, how can productivity really be developed? I listened to you yesterday - I think yesterday - in your last speech to the committee to refer to the concept of productivity as a factor determining your options. Hey, he doesn't define them! As you said, you are obviously equating productivity with profitability. I heard it very well. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Give me some time, Mr President. And well, that may not be the major. The "active development" that dominates all neoliberal capitalism how does it come to button with this approach your scientific approach? No matter how productivity and development is today, the developing countries have proved to increase unemployment and social inequalities. In the traditional countries of traditional capitalism, inequalities and unemployment are on the increase. So from now on, and with what study you will approach these things and dress them with scientific adequacy. On the contrary, Mr Hatzidakis, and Mr Hatzidakis, first of all, the public expenditure, not the waste of public wealth, which is common to the entire tradition of the New Democracy, not the complexity, corruption and all these games with which the parties earn this support from a system of economic interests, but public spending, the social state. And social states are pensions, which ensure sustainable development. When this counter-reformation comes to talk about some techniques that are clearly contradicted by Mr Brutsi's prediction - which has been mentioned many times by us - about sustainability by 2070, but this approach is not enough. Because we want an increase in the sustainability of pensions. No, we want it, society and the economy need it to make growth sustainable, as well as the social state, as well as education and health at all these levels. But that is what New Democracy is hosting, and therefore its policy is structurally linked to general insecurity. It is not just a short-term phenomenon. It is precisely the policy of anarchy of profitability that a component of social insecurity, which has grown to such an extent internationally and in Greece, is repeated, you who went bankrupt in this country to use the same recipes lately, with your dream that has been unresolved all these years, insist not to study the real needs and real problems of Greek society and the Greek economy and the synonym that all of this has...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u324	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa. You have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u325	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...but you find technical solutions to speculative use of insurance contributions. And if that's not privatization and it's not gambling, then why do you put the three risk steps on the young people insured for subsidiary security? High risk, middle risk, low risk. Isn't that a gambling game? And when you take the obligation as a state, on the basis of your bill, if the investment by business investors who play on international stock exchanges does not go well, to cover the state, is that a guarantee for the worker? Oh, no! It's a gift to businessmen, obviously. Because otherwise, if these business activities are so efficient...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u326	Hang up, Mr. Dritsa. Excuse me, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u327	Mercy! We've been here since morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u328	What's bothering you, Mr. Comrade? What's bothering you? We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u329	Respect all of us for being here since 9:00 in the morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u330	I respect him, Mr. Comrade, year after year. I'll finish right up. To finish my thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u331	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u332	So if it's so...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u333	Write down and say your opinions. You've been talking ten minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u334	And now you, because you're adding two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u335	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u336	I listened to you with a shaky voice - I think you were - saying 'the private pigeon', 'the individual pigeon' with chills of emotion. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Dragon, I didn't have a voice. If you were home seeing someone else, I don't know. You'll tell me about shaking voices!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u338	Please don't hold a dialogue! Hang up, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u339	I'm done, Mr. President. Let me say what I said. So individuality is the disaster for society, for the economy, for all of this. And Thatcher's over. There is an alternative, and it is precisely the social perspective of the economies, the peoples, the states and indeed another version that is already being discussed around the world. The New Democracy is backward, retarded and, of course, selfish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u340	The speaker of the New Democracy Parliament has the floor now, Mr. Zesi Jekalaya.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the insurance issue is not just a major issue but a question of fundamental importance for the country, because social security is the foundation of social justice. Our Government last year with Law 4760/2020 effectively abolished the unacceptable effects of the 2016 Katrugalo Law, which still harm thousands of citizens, thousands of insured and retired people. So it comes with today's bill, which is a follow-up to last year, and it was a pre-election commitment, with which we overthrow the confidence of most people so far that our young people will never be retired. Our aim is to increase future supplementary pensions, but with full safeguard for the existing system. This is the direction of ensuring a more prosperous future for younger people. We have to face very serious challenges. The challenges are the demographic ageing of our population, the size of undeclared work and the model of the growth of the Greek economy. That is why today's bill is a necessary intervention. So we're doing the capitalisation insurance programme. We have changed the process with the distribution model, which has accumulated enough suffering, because it has proved to be outdated. The basic innovation we have been talking about all this time, since public consultation started, is the individual insurance money. We liberals believe in the free economy, the private initiative. You go with the collectives, ladies and gentlemen. This is the Scandinavian model, which is adopted not only by countries with liberal democracy, but also by social democratic countries, which naturally have nothing to do with your own beliefs. We are therefore making the individual accounts, which will be invested in very strict rules. Youth contributions instead of entering a general koruna, in a large pigeon as it was until now, will be saved and invested. From 1-1-2022 it applies to everyone and those under thirty-five years old want it. It will be compulsory for employees and self-employed, i.e. for public and private employees and for lawyers and engineers. Contributions by mid-2022 will be 6.5% and then 6% on wages. We are therefore building the TECA, the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, which will be a public fund for managing these individual accounts and their reserve. We stress that it will be subject to strict state supervision. He'll have a profile chosen, conservative, balanced, aggressive, that every five years if he wants to be insured, he can change it. However, it is a given of the studies conducted by teachers of undisputed scientific standing and without party labels that otherwise supplementary pensions would be from 43% to 68% higher. So we will achieve the aims of reducing demographic risk, ensuring higher pensions, but neither the old insured nor the current pensioners are affected. We are thus turning the insurance system into a high-growth lever, and so we are promoting the confidence of our young people with strong incentives for legal work, to remove one of the aspects of the malfunction that we have been talking about so far. All this will lead to accelerating growth rates, in more jobs, in increased revenues for the public funds. The state, through the better investment in the savings of this fund, will ensure - we certainly say again - that pensions are higher. The state guarantees two basic things: First, the uninterrupted payment of the pensions of the existing system and on the other hand, that the supplementary pension will certainly correspond to at least the contributions paid by the current young person, the newly insured with the inflationary difference. That is why one example is mentioned: If anyone today has a minimum wage of EUR 650 forty years of insurance, if he would get EUR 153, he will definitely reach 43% at EUR 219, while with 68% at EUR 257. The savings of the insured will in no way be at risk, but we must tell the current members and the current pensioners that it is a guarantee of the law, it is clearly foreseen that, in any event, neither the payment of supplementary pensions will be affected. The cost of transition, which one would think could be a possible malfunction, has been studied by the scientists and has been made clear that it is not more than EUR 120 million per year, that is, an amount of EUR 120 million per year, and we know that the state is funding from its budget with EUR 15 billion for pensions every year. So at a small cost for the period of transition we are ensuring in the coming years and development of these investments. I would like to say, therefore, that our Government continues its progressive and development work, ensuring that growth is promoted. And the headline for this development is this bill that we have been discussing since this morning, which we will be voting on tomorrow evening and we will vote at least for all the Members of the New Democracy, but we urge you to think about it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u342	We are also grateful to Mr Jekalaya and to him for the consistency in time. And the floor now has the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Vassilis Kokalis. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the bill at a time when the great resumption of the poverty of Greek society comes with the rapid increase in accuracy. And the current and previous Minister confirmed the glossy increase in electricity, the accuracy of basic foods. The government, unfortunately, spectator! We also discuss the bill at a time of explosion in the sense of insecurity. You know,'security' is not just law and order. You forget the good called'social security'. The citizen today has the requirement to feel security for his health, he has the requirement to feel security for his property, he has the requirement to feel security for the environment and, finally, he has the requirement to feel security for his pension. This sense of insecurity for his pension with the bill is limited or increased? Just from the title "for the new generation" you confirm that you are a government apart from dividing and social automation. Immediately these two groups contrast. This draft law now abolishes the redistributive system and introduces the capitalisation system. The system of individual pigeons has also been developed by the rapporteur and by most Members of Parliament. The well-known constitutionalist, Mr Manitatis, quite rightly said that, without special knowledge of constitutional law, one can see which authorities are being violated by this draft law: first, payment of insurance contributions constitutes a purely public financial burden. Secondly, insurance contributions are a public burden, within the meaning of the Constitution and, thirdly, - most importantly, which you forget - that the payment of insurance contributions is subject to payment of the debt of social solidarity, which, unfortunately, you have deleted from your dictionary. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to mention that the whole - and allow me the word - is the fund. You know very well that the Constitution stipulates that social security is in exclusive care and is done and provided with exclusive care and care of the state. I will read to you an assumption of the supreme nullity of how it is provided - not formulas but substance - this care of the state, I repeat, not formulas but substance: "State care for compulsory social security - main or subsidiary - is not only exhausted in the establishment by the State of the relevant public bodies, in the definition of administration, in the exercise of supervision, but also includes care for the protection of their insurance capital, that is to say, for their sustainability for the sake of future generations, which is reflected, inter alia, by the introduction of arrangements for the protection and exploitation of their assets and the beneficial management of their reserves". This says the highest cancellation for the care of the state, for the care of the main and ancillary insurance. By copying the European Regulation - European Regulation 549/2013 of 21 May 2013 - what does it say about this matter? ‘A capitalisation scheme established by a general government unit is not treated as a social security scheme, since there is no guarantee by the general government in terms of the level of pensions due and the level of pensions is uncertain as it depends on the return on the assets. In this case the unit recognised as having the management of the system, as well as the fund itself, if it is a separate institutional unit, shall be considered as a financial company and classified in the subsector of insurance companies.’ I have heard many from the Com mittee say: 'But this is public law.' What did we say before? Not only types but also, in fact, giving the State care and care for subsidiary insurance. For these reasons, as they have developed with the objection of unconstitutionality, the unconstitutionality of the draft law is evident. Allow me, Mr President, in this short time to mention two issues relating to the Ministry of Labour. Thousands are the prisoners and potential pensioners who, Minister, are unable to receive a pension because they owe more than EUR 6 000 as farmers and more than EUR 20,000 as free professionals. Give me a break! Because, in fact, I have heard many of the government's Members say about the Katorugalou law - I have never expressed myself for a colleague - the last amendment - an extension for the free professionals in the Katorugalou law has been supported. We're talking about linking income to contributions. Ask how many engineers, how many lawyers since 2017 have saved money and how many doctors, lawyers, engineers, professionals pay insurance contributions. Give a solution to the thousands who are potentially retired and are practically unable to pay the excess, either over 6,000 euros for farmers or over 20,000 euros for free professionals and self-employed people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr. Red. We conclude today's long meeting with the MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's fifty and upwards will, of course, remember how all this insurance kitten began, which continues to date. It was in 1992, when the New Democracy Government, with Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis, voted for Law 2084, also known as the Sifa Act. This law, therefore, increased the age limits and the employee's contributions, imposed the participation of all those insured at 25% of the price of medicines and decoupled the IKA's pension threshold from the twenty-day wages of the unskilled worker who up until then. You don't call it all a little! However, the most characteristic provision of the Sifa Act was the unprecedented separation of workers into young and old, with an obvious aim of divideting workers. This was, of course, an attack which was, of course, continued and continued unrelenting by all the governments of the parties, such as the New Democracy, the PASOK and the coalition - SYRIZA today - which were voting for, let us not forget this, in the Greek Parliament in the same year, 1992 and that Treaty of Maastricht, with only the JRC voting against it. Now, the pretext arguments that usually accompany this reinsurance attack have not changed, you know, and much since then. We were talking about the empty funds of the insurance agencies. Really, who emptied these, and why? Nothing, therefore, did you hear about the great theft of the reserves of these funds, which financed EUR tens of billion in Greek capital? Didn't you hear anything about the great crime of bonds that were "dashing" these reserves? On the other hand, we have had the demographic problem of the country, but the governments are constantly exacerbating it with their policies! We had the big pensions and the euphoric and new pensioner's model, as a member of the PASOK then slandered against the Simitis, arrested all workers and pensioners and could not live decently since then most of them with their pensions! We also had the tolerance - alas - of the economy and the state, which, as we know, were and are always too small when it comes to the people and their needs and, of course, too great, when it comes to the needs of shipowners and NATO! These have been very, very much and still are the usual excuses when the reinsurance measures are voted on. There was, of course, another argument, which was repeated and repeated, that all this was done, says, to save the insurance system and the pensioners, and that any such law ensured pensions and the insurance system for the next thirty said one, forty, the other said 50 years. In fact, of course, what was done every time was with every insurance law opening the way for the next one. And that is exactly what successive legislative regulations have witnessed over the last few years and by all governments. So, by 2010, a number of overturning arrangements are being adopted for workers and pensioners and it has already made it possible to vote after that large popular rejection of the Yannitsi project and the well-known Reppa law in 2002, with which, for the first time, the establishment of the occupational insurance funds is being institutionalised in our country. It is then introduced from PASOK to social security by the capitalisation system of investment gambling, what KINAL is now coming and demagogically denounces it. Since 2010, however, with the argument of the capitalist crisis in the country, this reinsurance attack has literally taken off. A number of insurance laws are passed, which bring barbaric changes to our country's pension system. Listen to some of them, which still remain valid. Under the well-known Lovertou law - these laws have usually taken the names of the ministers who have introduced them - the reactionary provision is introduced which, for the first time, will increase the retirement age limits - and is still being made - on the basis of an increase in the life expectancy of our country. In 2012, the law of Koutroumanis institutionalises the so-called "private capitalisation" of the ancillary insurance funds, so that the New Democracy and that belief can now make it completely tangible and real. In 2015, SYRIZA and the third Memorandum, among other things, is increasing the pension thresholds by trapping for several years - for some up to seventeen years - thousands of workers who were then preparing to retire. But SYRIZA doesn't stop there. The next year, in 2016, the Katorugalou law, a landmark law, a section of reinsurance overturns, a law that scans everything as it incorporates, classifies and enriches all the previous legislative arsenal against workers' insurance rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a very low tolerance, Mr President. Thank you. This is how we get to today and New Democracy is preparing with today's bill to offer a sacrifice to the "capitalist minotaur" of the stock exchange gambling the contributions of the workers of the new generation who are now entering - and as they are - into work. That is to say, it is preparing to offer the capital a rich, rich, billion-euro meal to call it off, as the capital has done before, and with the robbery of the previous generation's reserves. And there's the nerve New Democracy's coming here trying to sneak in and try to get the kids to fight with their parents about who's fault with the pensions, as if the workers ever stopped paying their contributions. It's your fault, everyone you ruled! It is your fault, and no one else, because you have never stopped all of you adjusting social security to the needs of business groups, because you have never stopped considering it as a cost both for your state and for the older people, because you have never stopped undermining it and you will not stop until you are given a social right another individual responsibility if they do not stop you. But you know what? Social security was not given to workers by anyone. It was conquered by them with bloody, long struggles, so that they don't die like a dog in the vineyard, to have medical and pharmaceutical care, to have protection against occupational risk, scaffolding, mines, machinery, mines, but also protection against occupational diseases. The insurance for them and their children is not, you know, Mr. Tsakloglou, stock exchanges, they're not profit and expense tables in some accounting books, they're their own lives, they're their labors, their sweat, their blood. And these, you know, do not haggle much sooner than you think all of this will become their modern mass claims for life in line with today's potential and far from the misery you bring them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-01-S1-commons.u347	With the agreement of the House at 0.04 the meeting for today, Thursday, September 2, 2021, at 9 a.m. on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, continuation of discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Security reform for New Generation: the introduction of a capitalisation system for predefined contributions to supplementary insurance. Establishment, organisation and operation of an Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund and related provisions’.
