ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs will inform the House of the following: "We hereby inform you about the topical and urgent questions debate, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, that on Monday 25 January 2021 the current questions to be debated are as follows: Questions Nos 295/15-1-2021, 297/15-1-2021, 317/18-1-2021, 321/18-1-2021 and 1580/10-11-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The question under number 315/18-1-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalia. The Question No 302/18-1-2021, and the Question No 2576/11-12-2020 and 2822/416/18-12-20, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. The question under number 298/15-1-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Maria Syregella. Questions Nos 308/18-1-2021 and 309/18-1-2021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Questions Nos 304/18-1-2021, 305/18-1-2021, 306/18-1-2021 and 310/18-1-2021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras. The Question No 311/18-1-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, George Stylion." First we will discuss the question by No. 1580/10-11-2020 of the First Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘State payment of newspapers from the National Health Business Centre (EKECH)’. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am compelled to make this specific question up to time, because twice I had tabled it in writing and had not received an answer. I am sure - as far as I can tell you - that you will be giving a solution today. The former CEDEFOP, now the National Public Health Agency, until the resolution of No.4486/2017, gave the daily news of the employees at the National Health Business Centre, at the EMCDDA, in implementation of a relevant Ministerial Decision, as early as September 2007. In particular, the EMCDDA staff's on-calls have always been assigned to the CEDEFOP by the Director of the EMCDDA, in which situations the exact man-hours of work of the staff were certified. However, although all the procedures provided for have been complied with, the compensation paid to the EIOPA for the period from October 2014 to August 2015 has only been paid to 20% of the total outstanding debt in December 2015. To cover newspapers, the total sum due was EUR 623,000. To date, a portion of the amount of EUR 124,000 has been attributed to the beneficiaries and the outstanding amount is approximately 498,000. In addition, the payment of EUR 43000 on newspapers July 2017 remains pending. Therefore, the total debt to the doctors and other staff of the EMCDDA amounts to about half a million, or 542 000 euros. The above amount, as you know, relates to staff remuneration for overtime paid regularly by CEDEFOP following its grant from the Ministry of Health's regular budget. Following the adoption of the 2017 Act, the pay of overtime was paid by the Ministry of Health budget. However, with the resolution of Law 4633/2019, by which the EKPH operates in the EKPB, HSH doctors for their employment are now paid from the EKP budget. Despite the verbal assurances of the previous political leadership and a paper I have, but I do not need to submit it in the Minutes, signed by Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis - they only said and tabled papers, but they did not solve the problem -. For several years this loose ends. I would therefore like to ask you how you intend to deal with a genuinely existing problem that exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kaklamani, I will be very brief and clear in answering your question. Thank you for the question. We recognize expenditure. The whole thing's in a settlement process. Part of this debt has actually been paid, 20% being left with the remaining 80%. We are in the process with the relevant departments of the Ministry in order to give a definitive solution to the issue. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u6	Although the people's answer, by experience, tells me that in fact one issue, when the Minister is answering, is a solution and a second reason is that, in the knowledge of your character, I believe that you have indeed decided to give a solution, the solution is a political one, Minister. It is neither procedural nor arithmetic, because you yourself said that you recognised the expenditure due. I would just like you, if possible, to be a little more specific in time, in other words, when you intend to give this solution in time. Because, if I understood, you suggested that some sort of legislation might be needed, so that this problem could be resolved. In these words and pending the settlement, which I believe will be done, because it was not an injustice that had to be restored, I would like to thank you for your reply and I just want a little bit of the timeline or procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kaklamani, if necessary legislation, this will be done immediately. We can also catch up with the bill that is being discussed at the moment when it is ours, the Ministry of Health. If necessary, it will again be immediate to settle the matter if it is resolved at the service level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that, under Protocol No 900/737, from 21 January 2021, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made under Rule 43A of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure Special Permanent Committees for the Greek Settlement, Environmental Protection, Research and Technology, Equality, Youth and Human Rights, Regions, Road Safety and Penitentiary Systems and other structures for the Independence of Prisoners for the Second Session of the Parliamentary Period. Under No 896/733, from 21 January 2021, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made by the committee provided for in Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure to monitor the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights for the second session of the Parliamentary Period. Under Protocol No 898/735, of 21 January 2021, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made under Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the House Committees on Internal Affairs of the Parliament, the Finance of the Parliament and the Library of the Parliament for the Second Session of the Parliamentary Period. The relevant decisions have been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u10	Here is the first question under number 295/15-1-2021 of the SYRIZA MP for the first cycle - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Syrmalenios to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Arrhythms in the vaccination system in the Cyclades and the need to draw up an operational plan for the islands". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Deputy Minister, I know that since we tabled our timely question there has been some planning for vaccination on the islands. However, given that the island country and in particular the Cyclades have, on the one hand, the great geographical spread and, on the other, very weak public health structures, we are asking this topical question because we are concerned, despite your announcements, about the design and the final implementation of vaccination on the islands. We are even more concerned by the fact that: Firstly, it is not clear whether these health centres or, in general, all health centres can become vaccination centres. Secondly, the smaller islands of less than three thousand inhabitants do not have health centres - as you know, they have multi-powered regional medical services - and of course they do not have proper medical staff. Thirdly, the delays in the supply of vaccines by pharmaceutical companies show that the timetable you have set for the completion of vaccinations is very difficult, until it is impossible to observe. Moreover, special conditions for the preservation and transport of the PFIZER vaccine at less than 70 degrees add another major difficulty for its use on the islands. This is perhaps why some experts from the Committee on Infectious Substances recommend that vaccines be made exclusively in hospitals. Perhaps that is why in the first phase that began for vaccination we saw some polite notifications to the elderly over eighty-five years and many helpless people are invited to move even from Syros, which is a hospital in Naxos or Santorini. Also, the Medical Association of Cyclades with its announcement highlights the difficulties and arrhythmias, since the vaccination centers of the islands are unprepared, old people with chronic diseases have a great difficulty moving, health personnel of primary health care are asked to move and thus leave the structures of the small islands in which they serve. Private doctors are also unable to make an appointment or are invited to move to another island. So, in view of all the above, how do you assess and anticipate the success of the vaccination on the islands and the Cyclades, given that this vaccination will be, if you like, the ticket to open of course the tourist season, which everyone expects with great expectation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Symphony, I am given the opportunity to refer, without introduction, to the operational plan that exists and is developing for the vaccination of island regions. I think you also said that there is an operational plan, which was announced after your question was tabled. Therefore, the answer to your first question is clear: indeed, there is an operational plan. Before I go to the plan, I should like to stress once again that from the first moment when planning and implementation began, in order to get the population to be vaccinated, we have repeatedly said that the whole population of the country will be vaccinated and, where we need to go, in order to vaccinate our fellow citizen who wants to be vaccinated, since vaccination is not mandatory, we will do so. This is how it is done in the case of the islands. You mentioned some arrhythmias in the first few days, that someone resident of an island was asked to go to another island. There was that. I wouldn't call it a problem. They're just platform issues, which have been corrected. The inhabitants of each island will be vaccinated on their islands. The vaccination on the islands has not yet been opened. Let me tell you the four phases of the project, as far as the island regions and Cyclades are concerned, of course. The first phase concerns eighteen islands, where there are already HSH hospitals. The vaccinations have already started on 11 January for health staff and continue since 18 January for the citizens of these islands, in accordance with the priorities set by the National Committee for Vaccines. The transfer of vaccines to these islands takes place by air, mainly by regular flights, without any financial burden and the entire process is supervised by the personnel of the Armed Forces, the Security Bodies and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. The second phase concerns thirteen islands with more than three thousand permanent residents, and these vaccinations will begin on 28 January initially for permanent inhabitants over eighty years and will continue for the remaining age groups under the same procedure as the transfer of vaccines and surveillance of the whole process. The third phase concerns nineteen islands with a population of between a thousand and three and a half thousand permanent inhabitants. In these nineteen islands, on 10 February, with the instructions of the National Committee for Vaccines to allow vaccination to be carried out in more age groups and in particular to citizens over sixty and vulnerable groups of citizens. The transfer of vaccines, together with the necessary health personnel and other material, requires a combination at this stage of air and sea means for the timely and secure delivery of the quantities of the vaccine, which is implemented by the Armed Forces, the Security Body and the Civil Protection Policy. The fourth phase concerns forty-two islands as a whole with a population of less than a thousand permanent residents. Vaccines in the smaller islands will be carried out with the assistance of the Ministry of Interior and local government for the entire population that wants to be vaccinated and is over eighteen years old. In this case, the transfer of the vaccines and health personnel required will be carried out by volatile means of the General Staff of National Defence, the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and the Port Body vessels. The start of this phase will essentially take place with Kastelorizo, where from 27 to 30 January, all the people who want it will be vaccinated. The Cyclades islands are, of course, part of this population. In particular, in the first phase - January 11 -, as I mentioned the phases before, it is Syros, Naxos and Thera with their respective hospital units. In the second phase - January 28 - it is Andros, Milos, Mykonos, Tinos and Paros. In the third and fourth phases are the rest of the Cyclades islands according to their population. So you realise that the vaccination plan for the island regions is already under way. It is characterised by its complexity due to the geographical peculiarities of island regions and the actions required by the implementation of such a large project. Of course, there are difficulties facing them. However, I would like to ask that we do not tidy up everything by talking about arrhythmias because of a lack of planning. I stress that design existed, there is, it is being implemented and it concerns the entire population of the Greek territory. Vaccination of the population he wishes to be vaccinated will be equal and universal from one end of the country to the other, without discrimination and in accordance with the priorities set by the National Committee for Vaccines. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that as far as the establishment of mobile vaccination units for the vaccination of the population of the islands is concerned, I would like to say that there are the EGE mobile groups, which have been charged with part of the vaccination and in particular those of the third age in the respective care units of the elderly and the vaccination of the islands, and I do not think that at this time there is a question of additional movable vaccination groups. Vaccines in the island communities have been launched and anything is required to ensure that vaccination is successfully completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u14	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u15	Mr Kontozamanis, we are obviously aware of the design that you have made as a Ministry, because it has been published in local newspapers as well as in general, nor do we, as you said in your speech. What we want and ask to ensure is the safety of vaccination. When we say vaccination safety, because you know very well that especially the PFIZER vaccine, with special freezing conditions at less than 70 degrees, and because it is transport on the islands, and because all health centres do not have adequate personnel to enable them to be converted into vaccinated centres, the question arises whether there will be an appropriate staff even carried. For example, the specificity of the anaesthetics knows that it is necessary to react to some of the side effects that may occur, which, after all, have occurred throughout the planet since vaccination has started. One thing is that. A second point is that since we do not know exactly what our fellow citizens will be vaccinated - because it is voluntary - the transfer of these quantities of vaccines must be predetermined. Because you know very well that if this vaccine is left - from what we hear from experts - some days - three, four days, possibly four days - out of the procedure required to be absolutely safe, then we may also have waste of vaccines which will be misused, but we also create economic, of course, bleeding, as long as we have such a situation. So what may be useful to know in advance is how many people will be vaccinated, that is to say a campaign, especially in smaller islands that have health centres and regional medicine and know exactly, so that the quantities of vaccines that will be transported will correspond to people who want to be vaccinated and, of course, there will be proper staff. Another issue - which we are talking about - is that in recent days in Santorini there has been an increased number of cases. From information we have, this figure is due to foreigners who went to Santorini to help with the work due to the preparation for the start of the tourist season. These people didn't pass any tests, arrived there undisturbed, there was no precaution, so this thing creates a dangerous situation for dispersal across the population. A third point - which is not yours, but please convey it - is that there are islands and smaller islands which are perfectly green. It has not been a man for months, there are two hundred, three hundred, five hundred, a thousand five hundred inhabitants, who have still shut down the cafes, one, two restaurants that may have operated. And from this there is great financial damage, while these islands and islands could operate, as the operators want. And the Cyclades Chamber has made a specific proposal to open up to these places where there really is complete security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, with regard to the safe transport and safe administration of the vaccine, this vaccine, the first that we have at our disposal, requires special storage, handling and disposal conditions for the public. Once it comes out of the deep freezer at less than 70 degrees, it must have been administered within five days. And this is part of the plan that makes the business plan complicated. Then, when the vaccine comes out of the deep freezer, then we, as I told you, have five days where the vaccine can be maintained at 2 to 5 degrees. That is why, as you have said, vaccination is not mandatory. Each of our fellow citizens - whether in mainland Greece or in the island - will have to make an appointment through the special platform, so that we know in advance - that is what we are doing - that the quantities that will be allocated to each part of the country will be matched by the dates that have been closed. That's what's happening everywhere. That is what we are doing so that there is no loss of any dose and as many parts of the population as possible to make the vaccine. As far as the safe administration of the vaccine is concerned, clearly in every vaccination centre, as set up and developed, all conditions of safe administration of the vaccine will be complied with with with all the necessary equipment and personnel needed in order not to have a problem with regard to the health of our fellow citizens. With regard to the increase in cases in Thera, which you have referred to, all the necessary steps are taken to detect these cases, to limit, to control the spread and transmission of the virus and, in any case, to implement all the protocols, which are provided for. Finally, you referred to the small islands, which have no contact with the rest of the world and which could possibly be opened up by economic activity. In any case, we are listening to the experts' suggestions, but we must be particularly careful when we go to open up an activity, because we do not know whether or not there has been a case or whether there is a dispersion and transmission of the virus even in the last part of the country. I cannot answer this question in detail, but in any case, we are all aware that there is an economic damage first of all to the activity of each region. In any case, however, all decisions are taken first in the light of the protection of the health of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too, Minister. In addition, Mr. Kontozamanis, Deputy Minister of Health, will answer the third question, number 317/18-1-2021, first question from the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on "The problems regarding the adequacy and safety of the Cardiopathy Intensive Monitoring Unit (MPC) of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI)". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Undersecretary, problems have arisen with the adequacy and safety of the Cardiopathic Intensive Monitoring Unit (CVC) of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGN). By decision of the commander, one and a half months ago, patients of the HICP coexist in the same space with patients of the non-COVID intensive care unit, without ensuring the safe operation and service conditions with sufficient permanently qualified nursing personnel, and there are serious health risks for heavy patients who need intensive treatment without suffering from COVID-19 due to the exclusive disposal of the entire unit for CIVID-19 patients. This means that ‘collected’ in the same area is severely cardiological and heart surgery, with patients intact or not, who require intensive treatment. Meanwhile, the Cardiopath Intensive Monitoring Unit covers serious cardioological incidents from all over Crete, the Southern Cyclades and the Dodecanese - in fact, just the day before yesterday, an incident came from Chios - and often has fullness over 75%. Once again, on the surface, the lack of permanent nursing staff, which results in several shifts for nurses and cabin assistants to treat concurrent cardiological and non-COVID patients. Therefore, the conversion of MSU into MSU, in addition to the issue of safety, degrades its function and removes valuable beds from the heart patients on the substance. Of course, the same is true of other hospital clinics. Hospitalisation of patients with severe heart disease in the same area with patients with severe infections increases the risk of transmission of microbes, further aggravating the prognosis of cardiac patients. There is also a risk for the health of patients with acute dams, emergency arrhythmias and other serious cardiological and cardiac surgery problems. You realise, Minister, that this can lead to an increase in morbidity and death from heart and other diseases. The government and the administration of the hospital are, unfortunately, trying to “remove the scratch fly”, circumventing the requirements and criteria of a unit that has been established by the KESY since 2016, as well as the criteria for the hospitality area, as well as for the training of nurses. The most worrying thing, however, is that the hospital commander, despite the reactions, shows no willingness to bring the clinic back to pre-COVID era levels. Not only that, but it has built up an entire theory, convenient for the government, based on the logic of 'neither permanent'. So we ask you, Minister, what measures the government intends to take, firstly, to separate heart disease monitoring unit beds and ICUs “non-COVID” and to restore the clinical response to pre-COVID-19 status levels. Not just that, of course. Here there was a promise to create an increased care facility for incidents, which arrive at PPAGNI, from hospitals in Crete, southern Aegean and others, but always on condition that there is sufficient permanently qualified personnel and not with temporary patches. Secondly, what measures do you intend to take to ensure safe care of serious heart and heart surgery in the hospital’s NIC? Thirdly, what measures do you intend to take to increase the available beds of the LCA in order to meet the needs of the entire population of Crete and the south-eastern Aegean? Fourthly, what measures do you intend to take to develop in the hospital of young people, fully staffed with permanent, well-trained staff and well-trained ICU beds and an increased care unit, to expand PATAGNE’s infrastructure with an increase in state funding, to create new ICU beds and, finally, to requisition the private ICUs of Crete so as not to degrade the SICs in order to ensure additional intensive treatment unit beds? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Synthraki, in July 2019 the Intensive Treatment Unit of Heraklion University Hospital of Crete operated the twelve out of the sixteen beds for the hospital of patients. Today, it is fully developed and functioning, having the potential to hospitalize sixteen patients. Similarly, the Cardiopath Intensive Monitoring Unit was received with the potential to treat seven cardiopathic patients and is fully developed today, with the possibility of hospitalisation of nine cardiopathic patients. For the full development and operation of these ICU beds and Cardiopath Intensive Monitoring Unit, of course, medical, nursing and other personnel are required. In the intensive care unit in particular, there are sixteen intensive doctors, fifteen of whom are permanent and one of them trained, sixty-six nurses, of whom thirty-six are permanent, eighteen subsidiary and the other twelve specialists. In order to address the pandemic and especially to meet the needs of patients who needed intensive therapy, Coronovir patients, we proceeded based on a specific plan to the necessary temporary operation of both the ICU and the Cardiopath Intensive Monitoring Unit. In particular, the sixteen beds in the ICU were reserved for the exclusive hospitalisation of Coronovirus patients and at the same time the four of the nine intensified heart disease monitoring beds were available for coronary-free patients who had intensive treatment. At this point, I would like to make it clear that these temporary operating changes have been made by complying with all the standards for patient safety and, in any case, with the scientific guidance of the medical staff responsible. At the same time, in order to ensure the coverage of patients with heart disease and in consultation with physicians cardiologists of the CVMP, the hospital administration proceeded to the temporary development of four intensified heart disease monitoring beds in a specially designed space against the haemodynamic section. I stress that this solution is temporary, but necessary, until the completion of the work of building thirteen intensified single beds and two single beds of increased care, of donation to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which will be given for use at the end of February. For these new intensive care beds and increased care, we have announced ten intensive medical posts, five of which have been covered by the doctors, and five have been considered barren and will be reopened in the next few days. At the end of the month, we are also waiting for the appointment of twenty permanent TE category nurses through the ASP procedure and in particular the 2K notice, which we have succeeded and pulled together successful successors of this notice and we will have them at our disposal in other hospitals in the country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Therefore, all the actions we are implementing have one single purpose, the upgrading of the services provided by hospitals and health centres to all citizens. A critical factor in this effort is the adequacy of human resources, which manages the country's health structures and staff, preferably permanent. That's what we want. We've said it before, we'll say it and we'll keep saying it. Permanent solutions want the system. Whatever we do, needs and shortcomings are important, so that we can find solutions like subsidiary staff. They are measures which give a solution to our issues, even in the short term. More than seven thousand five hundred supplementary doctors, nurses and other staff and a thousand four hundred twenty permanent ERC doctors' posts have been implemented over the last 12 months. We will continue with targeted recruitments where the system needs them. We have said that over the next few days there will be a notice of much more than five hundred permanent medical staff. Of course Crete - we have said so - needs in intensive treatment beds. Of course the Cardiopaths Intensive Monitoring Unit at Heraklion University Hospital needs to be upgraded. It must be provided with the necessary personnel, the necessary infrastructure and medical equipment. That is what we are doing and we will continue to do, at an even more intensive rate. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u23	Minister, I'm not a doctor, but science itself says coexistence of serious cardiological and surgical incidents with patients intact requiring intensive treatment is the least incompatibilities. It's dangerous. The hospital commander, trying to counter the responses of cardiological clinic officials, says they don't have such objections and reactions a real basis. I have measured at least four times the phrase 'provisional function'. Neither does the commander say so, nor does the 7th RU officially say so and unofficially. You say it today. We keep this on the issue of the temporary operation of the "non-COVID" beds. In any case, however, you must bear in mind that in these circumstances the risk is too high and I will bring you some examples. The wound stayed for hours in PAGNE's recovery after an emergency surgery. Another patient was intubated into neurologic and continued hospitalisation in a simple clinic. Serious cardiovascular events, in need of intensive monitoring, are treated in common cardiological beds, while delaying over 10 neurosurgeries. So you realise that these conditions are insecure to treat patients in critical condition and put at risk health and their own lives. All these original decisions by the administration have the government bola in the name of the health crisis, but also the 7th HR, at the expense of patients before all, but also of workers. I will tell you something because you mentioned some numbers and said that 'we will hire so many, we will hire them, yes, there must be permanent staff'. The point is that steps are being taken backwards. If, in a pandemic situation, the permanent staff are not recruited to cope with these difficult circumstances, let us imagine - the patients, the people, the workers - what will happen in normal conditions. Full deportation! The lack of nursing staff is too great. It is indicative that on shifts there are three contracted nurses and one specializing in ten patients with severe cardiologics. There are nurses who for two weeks have been working on a day off or doing three in the morning - night. One newspaper doctor should be if needed - which takes too many times - to be in two places at the same time and to provide his services. The original management decision predicted a shrinkage of nine LIC beds in five. Under the outcry, it was forced to proceed with a medium-sized solution, i.e. coexistence of three specialties in an area where the proximity of beds is contrary to the normal operating and safety conditions of an ICU and an MCC. From the hospital's previous board of directors the site of the implant unit was classified as a warehouse. And now you're housing the ITH non-COVIDs. On many shifts personnel are common. I mean, cardiological clinic, ICU, surgical clinic, and so on. It's common to staff. We're reporting cabin assistants, nurses, transporters. I mean, three in one. While the cardiological clinic becomes inseparable under the responsibility of the administration, it itself arbitrarily, recently, without any updates to the directors of the cardiological clinic and cardio-thoracic, licensed a chamber with two beds with oxygen supplies, in which people were hospitalized, to turn it into a doctor’s office. Find out which doctor. I say that to be very specific. In addition, Minister, there is a fear regime. There is a bulging of workers who dare to denounce the arbitrary practices of PAGNE commander. Do you remember the threats to ban the club president from talking about the hospital's shortcomings? Very well, I think you should remember. Are you aware of the recent intense mental oppression, which has been accepted by a high executive of PANGNE from the hospital administration, so that it can be introduced into the coronary unit for hospitality? So these problems reflect the failure of the government's plans and disprove your allegations of armoring the public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u24	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u25	I conclude by saying that you mentioned the donations of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the extension of the ITH to spaces that were seconded by the psychiatric and other departments of the hospital. The question is what staff these beds will be assigned. Have new posts of permanent nurses been announced? It's good to say we're making new ITH beds. What are these staffed by them? Or do we do patches, closing clinics and taking staff from other clinics and putting them in an intensive care unit? In any case, you should see these immediately. The third wave is ahead, with all the consequences it can have for the health and safety of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would ask you to keep the time, because there is a very large number of questions today. This also applies to the main ministers. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Synthyaki, you referred to original decisions, but let me tell you that in such periods of pandemic, not only in the National Health System in our country, but also in other health systems, emergency measures have been taken. We all see what has happened in other countries. I said some arrangements are temporary. Yes, they are temporary in order to deal with this pandemic in order to meet the needs of all our fellow citizens, so that the National Health System also meets the needs of our fellow citizens who do not suffer from coronary diseases. It's not a system that only deals with the coronary. We need to meet everyone's needs. Of course, our decisions are in no way original. It happens all over the world. We are developing new intensive treatment facilities and with the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, and that is why there are specific arrangements, which of course have anticipated the positions of the medical, nursing and other staff needed, so that these units, as soon as they are ready, will immediately be made available for use. You referred to delays in surgery, tests, interventions in anticipation. I should like to stress once again that all urgent and urgent incidents are made at the National Health System as a priority. The National Health System covers all the needs of our fellow citizens. The National Health System prioritises the actual emergency and emergency situations. To any of our fellow citizens who need immediate hospitality or service they have not refused him this provision. In any case, I think that these unprecedented conditions for the treatment of pandemic give us the possibility, in a possible third wave - since we now have more knowledge, more experience, as we have seen what has happened in the first and second waves not only in our country but also internationally - to be able and prepare properly - if that comes, which we are absent - and to respond once again to the increased needs of patients. I would like to stress again that our objective is the infrastructure, which we have developed in a short time in the National Health System, in order to tackle this pandemic and which has created a large reserve to remain in the National Health System, to strengthen and maintain them. Our aim is to fill all the gaps that exist with permanent solutions in order to deal with any possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too, Minister. The first question will be discussed with number 297/15-1-2021 in the second cycle of MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Balafa, Minister for Health, on the subject: “Protecting people with diabetes mellitus”. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Kontozamanis. Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the current question we are debating today concerns the taking of strong protective measures for workers suffering from diabetes mellitus, especially at the COVID -19 pandemic. These protective measures are absolutely necessary. Without a sign of exaggeration, I would say that it is a matter of life and death for all our fellow people who suffer from diabetes mellitus, particularly - I repeat - in the pandemic phase. According to scientific data, the risk to these people for illness and death is three times greater than people with normal health status. The Athens Diabetic Association and the Panhellenic Federation of people suffering from diabetes mellitus have formulated the request to your Ministry documented and repeatedly documented. The point is, you're not answering. They characterize your attitude as a fish silence. I would like to point out that the sufferers are approaching one million. It's about 10% of the population. What are the protection measures and the institutional changes required? We believe that it is necessary to apply to workers suffering from diabetes as a whole, without exceptions, the protective measures included in the legislative act of 22 August 2020 to address the risks from COVID -19. In particular, the main thing is the possibility of distance work and as an alternative the issue of special leave. To apply these, however, individuals must belong to those identified as vulnerable or high-risk groups. There is also the Joint Ministerial Decision of 18 September 2020. There are two problems here, Minister. The first is that it has been arbitrarily introduced - I do not accidentally use the expression - without scientific documentation the term'regulated and regulated diabetes mellitus'. There is nowhere in international literature and this is what the Hellenic Diabetic Society and the World Organisation for Diabetes IDF, which classifies all individuals suffering from diabetes mellitus in vulnerable groups. The second important problem is that for a person suffering from diabetes mellitus - even unregulated on your part, arbitraryly - this is not enough to be able to join vulnerable groups, but it should be either more than sixty-five years old or have another very serious disease. So, where do we end up? We end up with the very limited number of our fellow people, who are part of the vulnerable groups, the high-risk groups and are therefore not entitled to protection and protection measures for their work in conditions of COVID -19. So you ask yourself, Minister, and there is a request for a specific answer, so that we too can inform the interested parties, who have told you how they have been approached: Questions are clear. First, do you intend finally to modify the Journal of the Government, the 4011/18-9-20, to include all diabetic sufferers in vulnerable groups, high risk groups? Question two. In this way, these workers can be subject to the legislative act of 22 August 2020, this particularly dangerous phase of the COVID pandemic -19. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. Let me remind you that the time of the question is two minutes, with the relative tolerance always. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Balafas, citizens who are diabetics really represent a sensitive group of the population. Our aim is to protect all sensitive groups now with the coronary pandemic, which is an additional threat to these people. It is logical that these sensitive groups of the population are particularly concerned. We are of course concerned with this fact and it has also been put at the meetings of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health, which has both the competence and the scientific documentation at its disposal to decide on such matters. It is the Commission's decision to set the criteria for vulnerable groups, and in particular to determine which groups are at increased risk for serious infection by COVID-19. These Committee's recommendations have also been based on the CVT, to which you refer, which has been published and determines these criteria. There is indeed the term 'different diabetes' and the age criterion over the age of sixty-five years, as illustrated in the CVT by the recommendation - a decision of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health. We cannot, as political leadership, intervene in such procedures and instruments. We understand how sensitive these vulnerable groups are, particularly people with diabetes mellitus. The first reason, in any case, is the scientists who are recommended in the context of science with these issues. We are, of course, open to debate this issue and, if there is a need for an amendment to that effect, for us to do so. I'll look into it in the context of your question. The removal of the unjust, as you call it, the term "regulated diabetes" can be done upon the recommendation of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health, and in no case arbitrarily on the initiative of the State itself. I would like to point out at this point the relevant opinion of the Central Board of Health, which states: 'Music diabetes is a very common disease and is often mild or well-regulated...'. Perhaps that's where the unpaid term you say “digestion regulator” comes from. I continue: "They are not part of the high-risk groups for COVID -19 all the sufferers, but only those with disease complications and associated illnesses. There are European directives by the European Agency for the Prevention of Diseases and, according to them, patients with diabetes mellitus with co-diseases and over sixty-five years of age can be included.’ These are the directives and practices of other European countries, such as France. I believe that in the context of the relevant opinion of the Central Board of Health, the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health has also been launched and has thus been published in the FEC. In any case, this National Commission is doing its job well, it is sure of the scientific documentation at its disposal and has the knowledge, in order to address all the issues in this regard. In any case, I repeat that we are here to listen very carefully to the bodies and their requests, as in this case the Associations and the Federation of People with Sugar Diabetes and through the relevant recommendations and opinions of the scientific bodies, such as the Central Board of Health and the National Committee for Public Health to raise these issues and find a solution. Finally, in cases where patients with diabetes are not part of the high-risk groups, the vulnerable groups as defined in the relevant Ministerial Decision, but consider that they should join a high-risk group prior to assessing the severity of the disease by relevant committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u32	Me, too. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. I am sorry to say that, Minister, but the answer is general. We're talking about a million people, we're not talking about five or ten. 10% of the population in one way or another suffers from diabetes mellitus. I didn't know. You are therefore referring to the National Committee for Public Health. He's got an opinion. But this is not the committee, which could - I speak very well - call on the bodies, discuss with them, say their opinion, consult the International Diabetes Commission, IDF. I do not want to point out what you should do, but I think that the problem needs to be addressed, that is the issue. You know what? We cannot go behind the Committee on Public Health. Politics in the end is the decision. Let me say one more thing. I do not believe that anyone refuses that these people are a little - very much in God's mercy when there is so much chance of illness and death in this category of our fellow humans. Let me add one more thing. Is there a matter of costs? No, of course not. There is a need for a mandate to the Heads of State or Government, which says: Do not put this man on the front line of work, give him a special leave, and the same applies to employers in the private sector. People are not saying that people should not work, but work in ways and protective measures for their health, which is particularly vulnerable in circumstances of COVID -19. Finish the COVID -19 and see what we're going to do. I am not a doctor - I do not know you - and in particular I am not a diabetic, but the International Commission, IDF, says that there is no separation of'regulated' and'regulated'. From what I read - several things I assure you - it is your invention of'regulated','regulated', it is always Greek government at this stage. There's nowhere from IDF such a division. In any case, I think you should finally discuss these people. I'd say, finishing up, these people shouldn't be invisible. They can continue to work on distance work, under special conditions, with a special purpose licence, in some way. You cannot, however, have in hospitals in emergencies diabetic patients at this stage and in general in the health care or telephones - these are their own words, they are not mine - in hospital centers. Why can't some of them or most of them work remotely? By the way, it is one of those groups that should, while not yet defined, be vaccinated as a priority. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u34	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Balafa, under no circumstances do I think that - from your own words and from my own words - no one has said that these people do not want to work. For God's sake! We simply need to ensure conditions, so that those who are at the workplace are able to work safely and in compliance with all the hygiene rules and those who are out of work again, by teleworking in particular, to be able to offer their services. In any case, the aim of the state is to protect all citizens belonging to a sensitive population group. We take political decisions upon suggestions. I told you that these were the recommendations from the committee responsible. As to whether the term is a cadet or not, let's consider it. Of course, we are open to see if, in fact, these scientific data and the evidence have been changed so that these people too can join this category in order to benefit from the provisions on special leave. I told you that we will look into it, we will be in contact and contact with the bodies and associations, in order to see their demands. In any case, however, we should have the necessary scientific evidence and expert suggestion to make the relevant decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too, Minister. Let's go to the last question of the cycle the Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Kontozamanis will answer. It is the third timely question under number 321/18-1-2021 in the second cycle of F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The restoration of the operation of the General Hospital of Larissa (GNS)". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you said, in the context of dealing with the second wave of pandemic, the General Hospital of Larissa was completely converted into a hospital of a disease, after stopping any other operation: Surgeries, external medical services, researching other diseases, monitoring chronic patients, etc., depriving and excluding hundreds of patients from the possibility of health services in the hospital. Since the situation was normalized after the celebrations on the case of CIVID in the hospital, there was a public commitment by the administration of the General Hospital and the Government to reopen the hospital, which, as the workers have said, proved to be misleading and false. In fact, the design after two to three days of public commitment, as I said before, concerned, as announced by the hospital administrations and the 5th Health Region, the reconversion of more than 50% of the hospital's power into beds of a disease, while it remained unclear whether parts of the surgical sector will be transferred to the University Hospital in Larissa, in other words, in order to make use of these clinics for COVID. According to the workers, doctors, nurses, these methods - perhaps - contribute to further degradation and planned change of character of the hospital, making use of pandemic as an instrument and an opportunity, of course, while no mention is made of staffing with all the necessary staff of all the specialities, in front of, of course, the possibility of the third wave of the pandemic. At the same time, with the authoritarian and unscientific political decisions which have affected and influenced the health of our people in Larissa, the governors refuse to take the legal responsibility of their choices. In other words, after planning and instructing the so-called "medical war", medical and nursing, i.e. care by untrained and unrelated health professionals, lack of suitable infrastructure and procedures for caring for patients with COVID -19 and especially non-COVID patients, they do not assume the criminal and civil responsibility of those with their own mandate. All of this concerns decisions taken and continues to be taken by a provocatively incomplete board of the Larissa General Hospital, since elected members, doctors and other staff, elected in the summer, still await the publication of the FEK. We ask the Minister what action he will take to restore the immediate reopening of the Larissa General Hospital, make all necessary massive recruitment of permanent staff of all specialities, both in the hospital and in the city's primary care, by extension in the county, and prepare the infrastructure for the immunisation of the vaccination centres and, respectively, the recruitment of the staff. We are also asking whether you will proceed with the construction of private structures in the area for recovery in the case of the third wave, as we have said, the pandemic and, at the same time, the permanentisation of all staff of all the specialities that are with the delayed working contracts, ancillary staff and going on to say. Of course, we are asking whether you will proceed to a direct criminal and civil health protection regulation for the entire period, which has been exercised and exercised by what we have said, medical emergency. At the same time, one of the permanent health demands is to integrate them into heavy and unhealthy professions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lambroulis, I would like to thank you for the question, because you are giving us the opportunity to emphasise once again that Larissa has two public hospitals and will continue to have them. In no case shall the nature of these hospitals change due to the exceptional measures taken because of the coronary. There is therefore no question at all about the functioning of the Larissa General Hospital. Our purpose is to upgrade the hospital services and not to suspend its operation. You refer to your question that the General Hospital of Larissa has been completely converted to a hospital in COVID -19. Let me tell you that this is not accurate. Clinically relevant and confirmed coronary cases have indeed been established exclusively for the hospitalisation of suspected and confirmed cases of coronary disease from the already existing clinical trials. All surgical operations, which would not have endangered the lives of patients, were transferred over time and could therefore take place at a later time. Today we are talking about, these surgery and the hospital have begun throughout the pandemic, they continued to keep on guarding according to the region's on-call program. The oncology clinic continued to serve its patients and their scheduled treatments. The artificial kidney unit didn't stop working one day. So is the Mediterranean Anemia Unit. Our aim is, of course, to protect citizens during the pandemic, and that responsibility is greater. Only, of course, that the pandemic space the coronary continues to threaten us with its transmissibility to the community and with the completion of vaccination in the population we believe that the National Health System will return to its normality. Until then we must be particularly careful and our hospitals in full vigilance and preparedness. There is a concrete plan for the region of Larissa and the wider region of Thessaly in order, if we have a third wave - which we are all absent - to be able to respond with sufficient success, as has been done so far. There is another element, which shows that our intentions are broadly opposite to what you have said. We are seeking, in other words, to strengthen and upgrade the Larissa General Hospital and I am referring to the recruitment of the permanent and subsidiary staff. I repeat that we need permanent solutions in the system and we have made both the proclamation of permanent posts of medical staff and other staff and subsidiary. In particular, we have declared eight posts of permanent doctors who will strengthen the operation of hospital clinics and departments with their services. Doctors have already undertaken a service for a position of neurology, a pathology, two anesthetics of physiology. A Director of Radiology and a curator of Surgery expect their FEK appointment, as well as two more doctors in urology and gastroenterology specialities. They're thirteen auxiliary doctors' posts. As far as the other staff are concerned since the 2K APA notice, we have the recruitment of permanent TE category nurses and we have the 6K notice in progress that we expect to cover additional posts of other staff of different specialties. Ninety - one persons of other staff of various specialties have undertaken service in the previous period, currently serving in the hospital. Thirty-six people in Nursing, seven people in the hospital, four in the Cabinet, six in the Medical Labs, thirteen in the Transporters, one in the Auxiliary of Cleanliness, twenty - one in the Auxiliary Room, one in the Cooks and two in the compulsory instruction of bankers. We have said so and we will say it again: we are strengthening - and we will continue to do so in any way - the staff of the National Health System. We want permanent recruitment, and that is why we are moving on to them. However, since there are time-consuming procedures, we are making use of the possibility of recruiting subsidiary staff, which is gradually being permanently carried out - it is a government commitment, particularly as regards nursing staff - mainly through the proclamation of permanent posts, which is done in the case of the General Hospital of Larissa. In conclusion, I should like to respond to two other issues that you have raised to me. With regard to the inclusion of health in the system of heavy and unhealthy health - we are all aware of this - we have said so, moreover, in other responses to parliamentary scrutiny - we are waiting for the relevant Commission's suggestion, which will recommend to the Minister for Labour that jobs be included in heavy and unhealthy work. As the Ministry of Health we have said that the integration of health into this regime finds us in agreement. Finally, with regard to the regulation on criminal and civil health liability for the entire period in which medicine has been exercised and exercise, let me say this: there is an institutional framework covering such cases, but, of course, we are considering, with various initiatives - and, in future, legislation, this framework in order to modernise it and develop it even more, taking into account the rights of patients. Let me not say more at the moment and commit that in future we will take concrete initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u41	Let me say this, Madam President. A virtual reality is presented, all good and well. That's what governors do in Larissa. We know, we say it, and we have denounced it as a party. Minister, I was at the General Hospital for a month during the second wave, and you know it very well. Of course the Artificial Nebru Unit was working. If nothing else had to work and with the thousands of people who had to keep it there to work. Because when they appeared in the IOO, in the private center, in the unit, i.e. an artificial kidney of the IOO, cases of CIVID nephropaths who were bleeding, they were transferred to the General Hospital, to the public unit. If that tells you something, the respective conclusions come out, because we don't have time to open this conversation. As far as the emergency was concerned, all the incidents will of course work on all the incidents. Where, though, was the hospitalization of those who were judged to be hospitalized? Larissa General Hospital? Of course not. They were torn apart wherever the land was. So where? Or, if necessary, at the University Hospital where there was the possibility of non-COVID hospitalisation, non-COVID patients, or in the private sector, with what this entails. So don't say it was fully operational. The question is precisely this objective, to highlight the issues and to listen to the relevant solutions, the proposals and the plans, if you wish, in terms of reopening in front of the third wave of pandemic, where the general - and indeed all hospitals - will receive, hospitalise COVID incidents, but will not neglect hospitalisation and treatment of non-COVID incidents. In fact, Minister, I will present to you the relevant document - in front of the plan that I have said, where the health region returns to a planning logic on the basis of how the General Hospital operated in the second wave of pandemic, there are concrete proposals - in front of the third wave - on the basis of scientific and objective criteria, that is to say, of safety, the proportion of beds, available doctors and nurses, respectively of auxiliary staff and by saying, but also, of course, on the basis of experience and lessons from the second wave. This document mentions how many beds should be provided by the Hospital for the hospital treatment of CVID incidents - forty-seven specific - but also that beds of the CVIDs, on the basis of the safety and staffing criteria, may not exceed sixteen beds. Some of these beds, of course, are clean, namely, for hospitality of the so-called non-COVID diseases. Accordingly, the restoration of the functioning of the surgical clinic, which did not work, of the non-functional pediatric surgery, of the urethological, which did not work, because the beds of these clinical beds were turned into CIVID, and much more so since urea was converted into an intensive treatment unit, increasing the ITH and MAF beds from sixteen that the hospital had in thirty-one of what this implies for the hospitalization of the patients, Minister, and the conditions of hospitalization. And you know that. That's why we said from the first moment, if you want, at the beginning of the second wave of the pandemic, that the government is forcibly forcibly forcibly forcibly and forensicly, since it has not exploited all the previous period between the first and second waves of the pandemic to serve the hospitals with staff, but also to strengthen infrastructure, medical equipment and say. Accordingly, the restoration of the hospital's surgical work - a proposal, that is, for the parallel operation in view of the third wave on the basis of the extraordinary forecasts for the pandemic period - with the surgical treatment of cancer patients who were waiting to operate in the second wave and, of course, for the parallel operation of surgical institutions to carry out surgery. Do we not need at least one - one of the directors of medical fields is proposed here, which is a unanimous decision and is unanimously designed in front of the possible third wave of how the hospital can function - a surgical room for a CIVID disease that, if necessary, needs to be operated by an emergency incident? There is no need for the immediate establishment of the necessary infrastructure for the hospitalization of patients from COVID, oxygen supplies, high flow, so-called high flow, negative pressure chambers. Does he have the General Hospital of Negative Pressure, or negative pressure chambers? Personal protective measures? Not to describe the situation, we do not have time for what my fellow doctors, nurses, etc. As well as the necessary medical equipment, which is missing, while it is necessary and necessary because the conditions of hospitality, but also the functioning of doctors and nurses in CIVID chambers, are very dangerous. And the results based on the illness of health, doctors and nurses, you know them very well, everyone knows them. I'm closing with this, Madam President, and I'm sorry because I'm abusing myself the time. But look, you're talking about recruitment, you've said numbers. It is a drop in the ocean in front of the huge needs and the General Hospital of Larissa. See, five pathologists and twenty qualified pathology are forced all this time to hospitalize in precarious conditions a hundred and twenty - five severely ill patients. And you know what it means to heavy patients with COVID, what it takes not only from circumstances, but also from staff. Six permanent intensifiers and three were taking them - to say this - let me say the word, from the TLPs, where they were their organic position, to assist the work for the thirty-one beds responsible for the six intensifiers at the Larissa Hospital and not just for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u43	I'll be done. So, not to say, for the nursing staff, who was recruited under specific contracts, that is to say, with late contracts, which these children were asked to treat patients in ICU conditions, without even having passed the basic training required for a semester, and you know that very well. There are too many examples. But from now on we are focusing on our questions and our debate on the question: The reopening of the hospital, which in no way, as the doctors and nurses point out, will not allow it to become a hospital of a disease again. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u44	Thank you too, Mr. Lambroulis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lambroulis, I will say this once again: in exceptional circumstances you are taking emergency measures. The design in each area, but also in general throughout the territory, takes into account the specificities of the region, and how one region can help another region. We said Larissa General Hospital played a specific role in the management of the pandemic and when we come back to normality, it will return to normal function. In any case, however, there is a design in order to deal with a possible third wave and, of course, all the necessary measures are taken so that we can further strengthen this period by staff and by recruitment, whether permanent or subsidiary, but also by upgrading equipment, in order to deal with the possibility of a third wave. All of this creates a reserve for the Larissa General Hospital, which will be exploited when we have exceeded this pandemic. I repeat that in any case, Larissa General Hospital will continue to offer its services, as it has always done. It is important that such a hospital is part of the planning of the state in order to deal with this pandemic. Therefore, at this particular point in time, there is a specific plan for the Larissa Hospital and in synergy with the University Hospital the needs of all our fellow citizens in the region are covered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the following questions will not be discussed in consultation: The number 292/13-1-2021 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To immediately withdraw the unacceptable sudden cut in the funds of the Green Fund by 85%, intended for deprivation in the Megalopolis area". The second question by number 299/15-1-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New environmental injustice in Schisto Perama, Keratini - Drapetsonas. In the midst of the pandemic, with an anti-constitutional legislative initiative of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, an Attica Transhipment Station has been authorised, while a decision by the Regional Authority of Attica is being made to set up a waste treatment plant, although the Regional Waste Management Plan (PESDA) is pending at Attica, as well as the new law on recycling.’ The 1432/340/4-11-2020 question and application for the submission of documents by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "It remains pending the identification of the source of dysosmia in the Volos Urban Group". The 2800/17-12/2020 question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "It is proposed that the Government give an extension for the completion of the applications of small and medium-sized producers of renewable energy (SME) and energy communities". The 2824/417-18-12-20 question and application for the filing of documents by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Why do not the legislative and compulsory incentives for recycling and the cyclical economy and the anti-moving of waste?' Also, the question under number 312/18-1-2021 of a second question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Annulment of the redundancies of workers from the Agricultural Foetal Cooperative of Ioannina “INDOS”, will not be discussed at the end of the day, due to the intervention of the MP. Now we are going to the second with number 315/18-1-2021, a topical question from the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: “North Plan” and snow management. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we were almost a year ago, here in this Chamber - February 4, 2020 - when the Civil Protection Bill was being discussed in plenary. The first thing we were talking about was that the burden that fell on the shoulders of the then Secretary-General was excessive, and that is why the Government was, even late, doing so - and you deserve it - to a State Secretary for Civil Protection. We pointed out at the same time, however, that the whole system, as it is planned, is a stiff system. This seems to be proven, because we are already a year after the vote on the then bill, various natural disasters have occurred and while you should have drawn up plans to address these disasters with specific instructions to the regions and municipalities, because that is where the executive is located, we see you sending just two months ago, on 26 November, the first edition of the General Plan "Borea" to address exceptional needs and snow management, to give the local authorities less than two months to send you their answers, to prepare their own plans and send them on 18 December, with a deadline of less than one month to complete it, your model you have drawn up. We would therefore like to know which municipalities have drawn up plans and which regional coordinators you have appointed in the regions of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when I was informed by my colleagues that there is a timely question on civil protection on your part, I was surprised to see the subject of the topical question, because - if anything - a timely question is made so that it can be checked within the framework of parliamentary control by a Ministry, a State Ministry, a public administration for things that either have not gone, or has not been done, or has not been properly evaluated. I am here today, as you say, a year after the resolution of No4662, with which for the first time a national crisis management mechanism is being set up in that country. It is a programme, a plan, which I think is not a discomfort, but a huge step towards data for decades for our country at the level of Civil Protection. I have heard today in your prototype, and I have indeed been concerned, because one year later we have not gone through the general projects that they need. Mr Kamin, my dear self-government escort, everything we did not have as mayors in office to work within a year on the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, the newly established State Secretary for Civil Protection in the midst of a pandemic, so other challenges, proceeded rapidly and remains to present this to you and prove it to you. On 6 December, we proceeded with the fourth edition of the general plan for the response of exceptional forest fires, 'Iolaos' general plan. I'll give it to you. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Previous edition in 2013. The country, that is, for seven years, has been facing fires with an uninformed general plan. On December 6, the same day, we are moving forward and presenting the first general plan to address emergencies and immediate short-term management of the consequences of the flooding phenomena, "DARDANO". The country has been in decades. - he didn't have a general plan to deal with the floods. We'll testify to you. On 18 December, a few days after the tragic shipwreck outside Parga - and I remind you - which cost you the lives of many seafarers of migrants, refugees and arrhythmias, which we saw at the time of the management, that is, in times of management, we presented and proceeded, and we have updated and published the Special Plan for Human Losses. It's macabre, it's important when we have to deal with losses. On 30 January the country was first acquired - for the first time! - for decades now, as we issue it, the General Plan for the Management of Extraordinary Needs and Immediate Event Management by Earthquakes Event, the project "EKELADOS". We'll testify to you. On 6 February the country was facing a taboo for the first time. We publish the General Plan to Combat Extraordinary Needs and Immediate Events Management from the Volcanic Activity Event at the Volcanic Syndrome Santorini under the code name ‘TAILOS’. In fact, there was a more general debate: what do you know and tell us nothing? Nothing at all knows. The country must be ready, fortified. Citizens must be prepared to face any danger. We are moving on February 6 and we present and present the third edition of the General Plan for the Management of Large Territorial Technological Accidents, the General Plan "SATME" under the code name "HARAKLIOS". The country had been operating for two and a half years without an up-to-date plan. We'll testify to you. On June 30th, the country acquires for the first time a General Plan to address Emergency Needs due to accidents on the Road and Rail Transport of Dangerous Goods, in accordance with ADR and RID regulations. We'll testify to you. On November 26th, the country first acquires a General Plan for the Response of Emergency and Direct Event Management from the Snow and Ice Efficiency Event under the code name ‘Borea’. We'll testify to you. At the same time, the address - why do we not give all of this to studies outside, in-house working on an excellent team of scientists in the Directorate of Planning and Management of Extensive Needs - goes ahead with the adoption of four pilot projects. For the first time in the country this is happening. There are specific models for addressing exceptional needs for forest fires, for earthquakes, for floods and most important for the consequences of snowfall and ice. That is, instead of the municipalities running to various scholars on the right and left, and wasting money from their koruna, money that they do not have, the General Secretariat for Civil Protection takes over the extradition of pilot projects, and all it asks the municipalities to do is adjust their own data on the standards specific projects. We'll testify to you. At the same time, we are completing the mapping of demolition plans for winter road maintenance entities, including high-speed patrol parking points, which are currently on the Civil Protection site and are at the disposal of the thirteen regions and three hundred twenty-five municipalities, so that they can complete their strategic planning at any time. We'll testify to that, too. At the same time - you will allow me with the tolerance of the Bureau and the permission of the Secretariat of Parliament - I have brought five USBs to enable all five parliamentary groups through electronic processing procedures to see all these plans and the work done within a year, in relation to everything that has not taken place in decades for our country. [[At this point, the State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, electronically submits the above USBs, which were delivered to the Special Secretariat of the President of Parliament.]] So, Mr. Kamin, with great appreciation and infinite respect for your face, it is wrong for us all to do so. It is inappropriate for the Civil Protection to think that we did not do everything we should. We have done more than has been done for decades, in the middle of a pandemic and, at the same time, we have faced snowfall. I want something to be clear here. The issue of snow management is not a matter of Civil Protection. The work of Civil Protection begins as long as there is plagiarism or is at risk of human life. However, our responsibility with regard to the real data and the involvement of those bodies, which the Civil Protection coordinates, have given us, if you wish, the incentive to move forward and, at the same time, to draw up guidelines for the planning of the treatment, but also guidelines for something that you mentioned, the need to carry out civil protection exercises on all these issues. We're giving you that as well. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, one year later, Civil Protection has completed all the decades that have shaken our country and has provided operational tools in the regions, municipalities and all stakeholders, so that nobody is hiding, not justifiable, not to make discounts on a huge issue called the safety of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you have financed a mayor, and I have also financed him, and we know how many studies and plans a mayor would find in his drawers when he took over and how many he delivered. At the moment, you have given us a couple of tens - fifteen draft files, while the question I asked you was very specific and specific. The country doesn't suffer from plans. The country suffers from execution. For all these projects you have shown us, how many and what municipalities have come and specialise them in specific action plans and which regions, we want names and addresses. Everything else is paper! The first is that. Secondly, you have now - according to the law - as the country's backbone on civil protection the coordinators in the region. I have sat and looked and the conclusion is that at the moment five of the thirteen regions have no coordinator. They don't have a coordinator! That is what we see in publicity. Let me tell you something else. Life doesn't start since you passed this law. You were the Secretary General for Civil Protection before, in a government that's been in power for a year and a half. Don't tell us within a year what plans you have drawn up. Come and tell us what specific you have done in a country that has come to know the crisis in the climate in Carditsa, the Ionian Islands, in Crete, in Samos. What do the municipalities have in their hands at the moment to deal with snowfall? What have they done? Not what general guidelines they have from you, but what they have produced in particular. If you cannot list them - not too many - please tell us in writing and tell us why the backbone of the system - which you are supposed to have drawn up - regional coordinators currently do not exist in specific regions of the country and indeed some of those that are suffering strong snowfall. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Comrade, let me remind you that you must wear your mask when you speak from a seat. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u53	I have great respect for the report that the country does not suffer from projects. You and we have dealt with situations without plans, without operational tools and with overlaps from the various services. The country was suffering from operational plans and general plans and the country has fortified itself in this part. Obviously, municipalities which have not been at the centre of a pandemic in the last two months to update the specific plans concerning their administrative regions are much more than the municipalities, which have been ahead of them and, obviously, the municipalities are at the heart of a pandemic that they have to deal with - with a number of problems, and with a number of shortcomings both in human resources and in instruments - and they need more time, so that they too can obtain specific projects. The important thing, however, is that a big step has been taken. In consultation with the CEDEFOP and the Ministry of Interior there is a debate that will evolve in the next few days. For the first time, municipalities have standard plans, which all - if you like - are'swiping' are compatible with a general plan, what the country needs to have. As regards the issue of coordinators, the coordinators are indicated by the regional directors in our agreement with their own operational experience. Three of the thirteen regions have not designated. In the next few days, this process will be completed. In any case, however, it does not mean that, because there is no coordinator, it is not complete the management we are doing at all, and this has proved to be the case. It proved to be all that you were right to say and which concerned, not only the snowfall - which we have faced and snowfall and I think the work that has been done has shown that, when there is cooperation, understanding and plan, we can deal with various situations - but we have faced floods, we have faced earthquakes, we have faced extreme situations. Those eighteen months we faced everything. The state, however, demonstrated that it was there and was on the side of both the mayors and the regions and the citizens, who, once again, especially in some regions, saw the same scene repeated. I would like to assure you that we are working hard in Civil Protection, so that we can, everything we have planned, everything that the Greek people have trusted us with, and everything that you at times and you, with your own contributions and the labels, help us to complete and become better. We're moving fast. I would like to invite you to come to Civil Protection, in our new structures, to see how we build a step by step through the National Civil Protection Plan 2020-2023, the "SAPIDA", all the national mechanism, which is the ultimate reserve for the next generations and our homeland. I want to close, saying this. With regard to the issue of civil protection, the need for the citizens of this country to be safe, fortified, prepared to face any danger, I would like you to believe that those of us working in civil protection do not treat it in the light or as a bet of government or party duty. We face it as a great patriotic challenge and in this challenge no one is left behind. We call on all of you, Mr Kamine, who are experienced by all the parties, to work together, because being able to leave our children and our country with a system with which the Greeks will be safe is a reserve and a bet that affects all together and each one separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too, Minister. We move to the ninth with number 311/18-1-2021, a topical question from the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance of Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: “The need to strengthen the ELTAs in Corinthia”. No closure of a shop, ensuring their uninterrupted operation and fulfilling their social role." The Deputy Minister of Digital Governance will answer Mr. George Stylos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. I wish everyone a good year, with health and power! Minister, ELTA is a public service with huge history and a crucial social role for both cities and remote areas. The ELTA stores in Corinthia, which is the second in a prefecture in the Peloponnese, with a large population growth in the summer months, are constantly deported and in the middle of a pandemic, so that they cannot respond to their multiple responsibilities and quite a step from the closure. I would point out specifically that there are fifty employees in twelve shops for a hundred forty-seven thousand inhabitants. You understand he's very underneath the needs. I specialize in: The Corinth Shop, which covers the area of Stymfalia, with five employees, the Loutraki Shop, with a huge increase in the summer, with two internal agents and two distributors, the Woodcastro Shop, with three internal agents and just two distributors, one of them possibly retiring, the Nemea Shop with one internal employee and three distributors, of which we learn we will go to the one distributor, the St. Theodoros Shop with a banking service with one internal and one distributor, which reaches the Kinetta, the Brahatio Shop respectively. Of course, the Guras Shop, in the most remote area of the prefecture, has remained with an internal employee and a distributor whose departure will very soon raise an issue of operation. The same is happening in the Corinth transit station, in Sofia, Chilean, Derveny, and in all areas that currently have a major problem. These developments, therefore, give rise to justified concern and insecurity to workers, local communities and municipalities in the prefecture, since the continued and clearest deterioration of the ELTAs creates problems both in their daily service and clear suspicions of closing stores and privatising the network, as sought by your Government in 2013-2014, with a direct consequence increasing costs and deterioration of services and ending universal coverage mainly in remote areas. In this context, you ask, Minister, how you intend to intervene in order to ensure that the branch offices of the ELTA in the county can fulfil their many different and multi-level responsibilities, but also to fulfil their role and what immediate measures will you take in order not to continue the depreciation and degradation of the stores, to avoid closure and to strengthen and upgrade the service provided, based on the competence and experience of the employees and on the quality of the infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u56	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President, as I thank Mr SYRIZA, Mr Psychoyoyo, for his question. I would like to tell you that I am here in a good mood and in a spirit of cooperation to answer your questions. Before entering, let me set the frame. We are at a new age for the services of postal services throughout Europe and not just in our country. Developments in communication, changes in habits and competition put new data, which we cannot ignore. We are therefore in a transitional period in which radical changes are needed. So we cannot approach the problem in terms of yesterday, if we really want to provide solutions and serve the citizens. At the moment, there is a restructuring and transformation plan for the company, on the basis of which we will move to overcome the problems of ELTAs throughout the territory. I would remind you that this draft has been approved by the European Commission and recently, a month ago, it has been voted by the Greek Parliament at the end of November, at the beginning of December. In your question you referred to the ELTAs of Corinth, which are devalued daily. You mentioned - it is true - that we have 12 post offices and six post offices which operate, that have a fully automated operating system and that there is the Corinth transit station. This network of stores serves and operates with fifty overall employees. This is the picture of Corinth. I mentioned the overall data. A given that none of us can ignore is the large drop in the volume of mail, in the letter post, as well as the change in the regulatory procedure in our country, the so-called "h+3" for the urban centres, which has been approved and made following a recommendation from the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts. So we understand that we have new data and with this new data we are called upon to operate. The direction in which we are to operate is that of the service of the citizen, the support of the company and the continuation of its operation. So all the decisions taken so far by the government are in progress and the restructuring plan we all hope will be successful. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would also like to give you a lead here. It was only last week that the collective agreement between company and employees was signed, which for a very long time - for many years - had not been signed. With a goodwill act and on the part of the workers we have had a reduction in their wages and now we have a collective agreement on the basis of which they operate and we also have a voluntary exit plan, which will then come to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are also a MP province and you know the issues that concern the ELTAs and the importance of their role. Indeed, it is a universal service provider - as you know - and on the basis of the law that has to be maintained. Unfortunately, however, the latest legislation and the elements I have mentioned do not show that. They must cover mail, bills, other postal services, banking and financial services, ergonomics, transfers, electricity contracts, professional training, retail network and much more, along with its historical archive. Instead of having strong support in the midst of a pandemic, which the state should show the way to the suffering citizens and clear support for social services, we come and have no staff recruitment. On the contrary, we have a solution to contracts and redundancies of temporary staff. This is the picture that the workers are carrying us. We have vacancies from retirement, which are not filled - and there are many of them - and, in fact, with the towels of the ones - that was the last agreement - and with wage cuts, with a high-age, old-age, fifty-six-six-year-old potential, that is the average - cancellation of the alternative term, which has been granted for those who have been exempted. Of course, there is an image which daily shows the enormous effort of employees, but which can no longer meet the needs, travels, distractions and cover huge areas without necessary capacity. This, unfortunately, composes the grim picture of a historical and neuroalgic organism, enshrined in the conscience of the citizens. Here we come to say what can be done. Because that is the meaning of the question and the meaning of the interventions. We, Minister, may not, during our term of office, have arrived where we wanted, with permanent recruitment, with 100% operation of shops according to needs. But we hired fixed-term contractors. You don't even do that. I told you about the alternative service programme, which complemented staff, better computerisation and linkage of stores and other interventions. We maintained the public character and the collection of significant amounts of the outstanding universal service and all other public debts towards ELTAs until mid- 2019. On the contrary, the recent rescue plan you mentioned is proof of a rapid dismantling plan, unfortunately, of the ELTA, with a levelling-up of labour rights. It includes a reduction in wages, again with redundancy of workers, a reduction in the reduction in extortion and departures of permanent staff, a decisive decline in the operation of the services, for the benefit of individuals in the sector. The increase is obvious, but the increase in the need for services also wants to increase staff, not to reduce it. So we want to ask, in this speech - and I want you to understand that - that? You, I repeat, are in a government, which, of course, does not work in this line, but you are a man who knows the data of local societies, the remote, the difficult and the social role of ELTAs and their everyday life. We therefore call for immediate and substantial strengthening of shops and therefore local societies, which are experiencing a health, social and economic crisis. The state should be at the forefront, and it should also be for one more reason to strengthen these social services, not to depreciate them and support the needs of the majority. The picture we have is that we need - at the moment we are talking about - 15 employees at least so that the basic needs of our regions, which in the summer months are increased, can be met. It is the second county of the Peloponnese and covers both parts of Argolida and reaches the border of Attica and Achaia. We will not allow any shops to be closed, but to strengthen and meet the needs of the services. So we are asking you again what specific actions and interventions you will take to counter this depreciation, the cursor and the shrinking of the ELTA services, which has a universal service and an obligation to do so, and that is our European obligation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u61	Madam President, Mr Colleague, criticism is to be founded on evidence. So I told you that the company's transformation plan, the restructuring plan and it has been passed by the Greek Parliament, but it has also been approved by the European Commission. You and I, too, know that it has been through exhaustive dialogue in this House, but it has also been passed by technical control to be approved by the European Commission. So we're talking about a project that has worked quite hard and has been exhausted by specialists and scientists. So in order to be able to provide the services, the company should be able, sustainable and that is what is going on. I would also like to say to you: as you are a Member of the province of Greece, I am myself, but the entire government is interested in and supports Greece as a whole and the urban centres and the region, up to the most remote corner of the country. We therefore want the universal service, which is our European obligation, to cover both island and continental Greece and the most remote parts of the country by 2028. That is why money and funding are being given and is allowed by the European Union and by the country. So neither you are the good guys, nor we are the bad guys, nor the backward. We are here to find solutions to the problems that exist and these problems cannot be done either at the expense of the ELTA company or at the expense of the Greek taxpayers. So what do we want? We want to have a company that is stable, sustainable, profitable. You mentioned for yourself, for the previous SYRIZA government, and I would like to remind you - it is good to know them, it has also been parliamentary control by the responsible division of SYRIZA, the Minister for Digital Governance has answered what has happened with the company. I would remind you, therefore, that since 2016 the ELTAs have been in the Supreme Court, a result of the well-known seventeen-hour negotiation. The company in 2014 had profits before taxes of EUR 15 million. You managed in 2019 the debts, the damages to exceed EUR 30 million. In 2014, the company’s capital exceeded EUR 38 million accumulated profits, contrary to 2019 when accumulated losses - negative and own funds - reached EUR 115 million. In 2015-2019, the group lost a value exceeding EUR 150 million. All this is at the expense of the company, at the expense of the workers and at the expense of Greek citizens and Greek taxpayers. The move in the company fell by 25%, from EUR 400 million to EUR 300 million. That's the big deal for the company. We had a reduction of 100m euros. Expenditure decreased only 12%. We had a 25% reduction in the turnover and 12% reduction in expenditure. So something was wrong. Something had to change. What had to be changed was find an object, find a job for this company to be profitable. The worker wants to offer, wants to work. He doesn't want to take money without working it. That was until then. This is what we are trying to overturn with the plan, which has been approved and approved, as I said, by Parliament and the European Commission. So we're going to a new era. We have new data. They change the data in the industry and the market. The couriers and the package have entered our lives. There is a need to cover the package in both urban and regional areas. Let me remind you that on SYRIZA a huge problem had arisen with PPC's accounts. The citizen paid to the ELTA store, the ELTA did not pay the money to PPC and we had a power cut. I don't want to ever go back to these times. That's what we're saying we want to change. To change, the plan that I told you before is being implemented. So what does the plan include in its next phase? He's got a voluntary way out. You said too that the average age is fifty-six years. This voluntary exit will enable this average working time of the workers to descend downwards. An increase of EUR 100 million has already been made in the company’s share capital. It's a successful capital increase. A total of 180 million have been given to support this voluntary exit. We call on the workers to respond. The ELTA workers, by signing the collective labour agreement, show that they are aware of the weakness that currently exists in the company and in no way want and do not want to function in the philosophy of 'give us money', as happened in SYRIZA. That money's lost and they don't get any place. The money will be given to develop the company to operate, cover wage costs, but also to invest and obtain work. So the first steps have been taken. We then have the next steps. The company, I remind you again, belongs to the Supreme Court with the law of 2016 and from 1-1-2018 literally belongs to the Supreme Court and works in there. So we expect the rest of the stages of the transformation plan to proceed. In no case - I close this - there will be no region in our country - or Corinth, your region, your county - which is not covered, not supported by post office, by post office, not to provide the services that citizens need. We simply want to give more attention to them to returning the company to profitability. There have already been correct steps and we are waiting for the rest. Here we are for more answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. The sixth question will be discussed under No. 298/15-1-2021 in the second question of Parliament's B2' Western Sector of Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "It is unjustified to move the General Secretariat of Gender Equality to the Ministry of Labour and the deterioration of its role". The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Maria Syregella, will answer. My colleague, you've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me begin by mentioning yesterday's unexpected loss of Shefi Valyrakis, a man - symbol, a symbol of struggle, a symbol of resistance against Judas, a man - symbol of his offer to democracy. I'd like to express my warmest condolences to his family, to his wife Mina, to his two children. We'll remember him forever. First of all, Madam President, I wish you ironheads and a good job in your work. Today we are discussing the question of the continuation of unjustified movements - transfer of responsibilities of the General Secretariat of Gender Equality, first of all, from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Labour, as was done a few months ago, when the government took over. Now, with the new remodeling, you guys took care of it. It is under the responsibility of the Undersecretary for demographic policy and family. All this, Minister, takes place not in vain, but within a very specific environment, in a particular social environment, in the middle of complaints by Mrs. Sofia Bekafouros about sexual abuse, complaints that have shocked all of us, have shocked public opinion and brought this abscession that existed in the field of sport and society in general. Mrs. Sofia Bekaterou, by breaking her silence, actually gave strength to other girls, to other women who are experiencing similar situations, to find the courage, to come out and say it, to solve the silence, to break the abscess. The abuse - and we must all speak of it, Minister - is not just physical violence against a woman. It is the use of manipulation methods, the use of power that the perpetrator often has against his victim. You can understand, Madam President, that developments such as the transfer of competence now and the rename of the General Secretariat of Equality to the Secretariat-General of Demographic, Family and Equality give rise to reasonable questions and concerns and not just to us as a Change Movement or to me personally. You are aware of the texts of all the previous Secretarys-General - as you were a while ago of equality - of all women's organisations, of the Gender Equality Network at the Gender Association, and of the EEIG itself. I would like it to be understood - Madam President - why is it that the Greek citizens who are listening to us can say 'and what exactly does the transfer of competence from one ministry to another'? Why is this a deterioration?’ I will answer you very clearly because it is a deterioration and because it has failed. First of all, because it only links women to the family and perpetuates conservative, absolutely conservative stereotypes for the role of women. Also, because after eighteen months after its establishment, the association of family policy and gender equality did not acquire any specific competence consistent with family policy. There has also been no progress in some kind of policy on gender equality at work. You know much better than I and everyone, because you served in the position of General Secretariat of Equality, that gender equality is about all areas of our lives. It is not just the family - which is, of course, not just the work - which is, of course, not just the gender balance in family and working life, but also violence against women and you know very well how much of the racial violence has been, particularly in the middle of the quarantine. It's too many more problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, you must conclude the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u65	I'm hanging up. I ask, Minister, what do you intend to do to enhance the role, effectiveness and policies of the General Secretariat of Gender Equality, rather than give the impression that exactly with these moves you are undermining and undermining its role? Do you intend to restore its original name and return with the Ministry of Interior in order to develop horizontal policies and not just policies related to the family or to demographics alone? Of course it is also very important that the third question I ask you is whether you intend to integrate equality into the Recovery Fund for pandemic and to reserve funds in the budgets of all the Ministries for the necessary expenditure on equality policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u66	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Minister, you will also allow me to express my warmest condolences to the wife of Sfi Valyrakis - whom I personally knew - and his relatives. Come on, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u67	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Giannakopoulou, because for the first time I am here to answer the questions, but also to talk about the new role that exists at the moment and which, in our opinion, is not only falling but is evenly upgraded. And I'll explain the reason right away. Equality is not a report of ideas. In any case, in order for there to be substantial equality there should also be specific acts which we will see in the daily lives of women. And in the past, she was a State Secretary for Equality from a previous government, which in her portfolio had both the Urban and Municipal State at the Ministry of Interior. In fact, I wonder how equality can not be interconnected with demographic and family policy, but to be interconnected with a ministry's urban and municipal situation. We shall now proceed to the policies that will be followed. First of all, there is a prioritization for us both for gender equality policies and for tackling the demographic problem and strengthening the family. After all, they were the main policies of the New Democracy government programme when we voted. With the interconnection of these policies, not only do these conservative stereotypes perpetuate the roles of the two sexes, but also encourage a balanced distribution of daily obligations both in the raising of children and in the care of dependent members, which we all know is the great problem of women in our country. In any case, no woman in the country should be confronted with whether to make a career or a family. So we need specific acts and specific actions to support women so that they can participate in the labour market and in the administration and decision-making centres. Let me tell you that no woman will be able to take responsibility either in her work or in the political life of the place if, firstly, she has no job, she is unemployed - we know that in our country we have a large proportion of women who are unemployed - and secondly, if there is no equalization of professional and family life. We faced this before, when in July 2019, equality left the Ministry of Interior. There was, then, a concern from the Workers' Association that the programmes will not continue and that we are losing horizontal policies. Firstly, all our actions and the National Action Plan on Equality which we will be announcing in the next few years, let me speak,'swipe' on the European Action Plan as presented by the European Commission: Eliminate and combat violence against women. Throughout this eighteenth century there has been too much. For the first time, we received an extension, in cooperation with the Ministry of Development, in particular the Secretary-General of the ESDP, six months before the end of the programme, for the operation of the network structures. In other words, the forty-two consultancy centers, the twenty hostel houses, line 15900. We also came in collaboration with the private sector - the Greek Hotel Chamber of Greece provided us with exceptional accommodation - and at the same time with the "Smile of the Child" for children of the abused women and the Greek Medical Association. We made sure that any woman who wants to call and get a phone call from her cell phone on line 15900 or a bourgeois charge from a company, one of the three mobile phones, or the other companies are completely free of charge. In cooperation with the Civil Protection Policy, we contacted and specific assurances were made during the curfew, and there are still women victims of violence. There are many other things I can send you in writing and they are at your disposal at any time. Second objective of the European Strategic Plan on Gender Equality: Harmonization of family and working life. We have already submitted and the study proceeds in the next few days for the 'Dadads of the neighborhood'. Also, paternity leave. The next working draft will include the harmonisation of national legislation with the European Parliament directive on the work-life balance for parents and caregivers and the paternity leave will be introduced for the first time. The legislative framework of parental leave and other facilities for parents and caregivers, as well as the protection against dismissal of both parents, and not only of women, who will make use of permits and facilities for bringing up their children, will be complemented. It was said that no programmes were carried out in connection with the strengthening of women's work. The first took place within our own home in collaboration with OAED. The figures from both the line and the advisory centres show that a large proportion of women addressing the support structures are higher and higher education and, at the same time, unemployed or inactive. We joined the OAED, with its board of directors and Governor Protossaltis, these women in the improved second business opportunity programme for the unemployed who have ceased their business and of course want to set up a new business. At the same time, for the first time, it was decided to integrate unemployed women from racial and domestic violence into the employment programme of vulnerable social groups, and through this programme these women will be subsidised from twelve to twenty-four months with 90% of the total cost of wage and non-wage labour, up to 800 euros per month for full-time jobs and up to 400 euros per month for part-time jobs. Equality mark: Project for the implementation of a ‘equity scheme’ is implemented in enterprises implementing equal treatment policies and equal opportunities policies to their executives regardless of sex. The Recovery Fund: We have already completed a training programme for both private and public workers for seminars on diversity, training and education, which is not only the Secretariat-General for Demographic Policy and Gender Equality. We will have the coordinating role, as has been shown by Law 4604 and Law 4531, which is about the Council of Europe Convention against Violence against Women and is in cooperation with other General Secretariats. DESCRIPTION: We left the Ministry of Interior and some said that there would be an end to the Municipal Equality Committees and Regional Equality Committees. Already we have set up two hundred fifty-seven Electoral Committees, while we are in the process of setting up the whole PPC and PPC throughout the country. Media, culture and sport: In collaboration a few days ago with the Deputy Minister of Sports and the Olympic Association, we are launching information and awareness-raising actions in society on issues of racial violence. At the same time, twice our country in 2020 received congratulations from the European Institute of Equality for two legislation, which went on. One was for the quota to sports clubs, and the second was for the quota to the boards of directors from the Securities and Exchange Commission, from Mrs Lazarakos, to the listed companies on the Athens Stock Exchange. Clearly, with transport, not only has the horizontal implementation of equality policies been made difficult, not only have the role not only played down, but in practice it has actually been upgraded. The priorities of this government are the issues of equality to be high, and here we want the cooperation of all, women and men. It's not women's issues, it's a matter of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too, Minister. I'm not fighting you today, because it's your first day. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u69	Madam Minister, the issue of gender equality is an issue in which the political system has to find wider consensus. In no case is it an issue on which anyone can say what they want or does not try to find consent. It is a yes, no doubt, a basic human right guaranteed by constitutional law. We as a Change Movement, so we understand our role, and that is why in a fertile way, with responsible and structured proposals, we have been in dialogue with you. In particular, on the issues of domestic violence, our President himself has put forward concrete proposals. The Change Movement coordinatedly set back and confessedly was a serious task on your part during the previous period in dealing with domestic violence. But I must say that on this particular issue, which we are discussing here today, I am not convinced, Minister, and I am afraid. I fear very much that the risk of the consequences of this transfer of powers - and it is not a press, it is a fact - will soon appear. It must be understood by all of us - you yourself said - that equality policies must be horizontal policies, which will go,'swipe', as you said, in the policies of all the ministries. So we believe that only the Ministry of Interior, and through central and wider structures, could do so. Madam Minister, Mrs Syrégla, gender equality cannot be merged or broken or entered as a perfection between demographic and family, as it has now entered. That's our fear, and that's exactly what we're coming and we're telling you right now. We cannot limit the role of women today, in 2021, simply in its reproductive role - as far as demographic is concerned - or in the care of the family. You give that feeling. So we deny this unique role. You know very well that on the basis of research, Greece is last in terms of steps and equality policies. We are last in ranking the gender equality index. I am presenting for the Minutes, for the sake of the truth. I'll ask you a simple question. You know very well that, too, our country is in the ninety-nineth world ranking, at a rate of 21.7%, in terms of women's participation in national parliaments. Ninety-nine! So as the Equality Secretariat is now in place, how exactly will it deal with this matter? Is that a demographic issue? Is this a family matter? It's so simple the question I'm asking you. Do you understand how much it restricts the essential concept of real equality that you have decided on? Not you, the Prime Minister and the government, as it works. Because, therefore, it is not a matter of formalism, but of substance, we are calling for the institution of the General Secretariat to be immediately restored to a separate, distinct state structure, with necessary funds for the effective functioning and supervision of the ERM. We also call for the General Secretariat to be restored to the Ministry of the Interior - not just for this reason - with an upgraded role to integrate equality policies into all aspects of everyday life and all policies of all ministries, so that we can deal with domestic violence, so that we can break the abscession of sexual abuse, so that we can shield women from all areas and not just in demographic and family. We therefore ask you to commit to real policies, to achieving effective and real equality, as needed and appropriate for our country, for women, for men, for our children, for all Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. You have already spoken about the evidence that we are last, according to the European Institute for Gender Equality. And indeed, we are last with 2018 figures, which Equality was in the Ministry of Interior. I have already said in my first speech that we have taken twice from the EIG for this year congratulations on two legislation that has been passed by the country. Clearly, I do not claim that we have become Sweden within eighteen months. But, in any case, things have been done and will continue to happen afterward. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] As to how equality will be within the new establishment plan of the Ministry, it will be distinct, it will be enlarged and, clearly, horizontal policies will continue, as has been the last eighteen months.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. We're moving on to the next question. The tenth Question No 302/18-1-2021 will be discussed in the top tenth cycle of the Member of the Boeotian Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Measures for effective protection of workers in the Regional Unit of Boeotia". The Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Tsakloglu, will answer. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u73	Minister, the question is with a specific content in relation to a very serious situation concerning the Regional Unity of Boeotia, which has been in red since 12 January. It is for three weeks on a continuous lockdown, which even started quite unexpectedly, in the sense that any measurements and any information there were did not give its signal to such a great deal of concern about the situation. That is why there have also been strong protests and questions from self-government as a whole. Unfortunately, however, there was no information, there was no information of any kind about the situation. You know, therefore, because of this reality that there is an insecurity, not only for the citizens, but especially for the workers who are employed in an atypical industrial area, in the Oinofytas, who is a receptor of too many activities. There the workers are not only Boeotians, they are workers from other regional units and from Evia and, of course, from Attica. What about these people? Protected and how are they protected? Indeed, Mr Minister, as regards the current week of the Lockdown declaration, there was information from the relevant Ministry that it was not only because of the proportion of cases, which were indeed low, but also because of the strong mobility of citizens. This question of intense mobility has also given the logic of any communication, transition, return to the workplaces of workers and especially to the area of Oinophilus. This is a very serious issue, which is very worrying given that there is no information, as I have said from the outset. From that point on, what are the issues coming up? Is there protection and what kind of protection is given to workers in these areas, who are actually moving? What other measures does the government intend to take, Minister, in addition to monitoring the necessary mechanisms, so that this phenomenon can be investigated, monitored continuously and, of course, in any other way we can help to prevent adverse consequences and developments? Of course, can there be any planning in the government, as we say in our question, for free provision of protection measures and continuous mass tests to be carried out in all companies in this region? If so, is there a timetable or what else is there from the government? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, thank you really for your question. The government, but also myself, from this step forward - I think it was also your question - has repeatedly stressed the importance of the fundamental right to safety and health at work. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has an institutional obligation to protect these rights and that is exactly what it does. Our duty and duty, particularly in this difficult period, are becoming even greater, as our country - like the whole world - has experienced the worst health crisis in the past 100 years. In addition to supporting businesses and safeguarding jobs, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has set as a priority the protection of workers from the coronary and the safeguarding of health and safety conditions at the workplace. For this purpose, regular and extraordinary checks are carried out to ensure compliance with the measures for the protection of public health, coordinated by the inspectors of the Labour Inspectorate, the APRC, the Health Services Agency of the municipalities and the regions, the Hellenic Police, the port authorities and the National Transparency Authority. Specifically for workplaces, the APR has as its primary responsibility the observance of hygiene and safety measures as a whole, and especially with regard to coronary contamination. Checks on compliance with the measures shall be carried out within the framework of general or even targeted controls throughout the territory and shall focus on the application of the exceptional secondary legislation concerned solely with compliance with the measures and protocols for the protection of virus in the workplace throughout the territory. At the same time, as well as checking that measures against coronary dispersion are respected, the SEA cooperates with the National Public Health Agency and the management of suspected cases at workplaces and, in particular, the carrying out of tests, which you have also referred to, in the isolation of positive cases, in the traceability of their contacts, in the removal from the workplace of workers belonging to vulnerable groups. Mr Mulkiotis, especially for the Regional Unity of Boeotia - because it was also your question - according to the latest available data, safety and health inspectors carried out between 11 May 2020 and 18 January 2021 - a week ago - a total of three hundred and forty-five checks on companies and facilities to implement the protection measures against the dispersion of the krone. Of all three hundred forty-five checks throughout the region of Boeotia, the two hundred eighty-eight checks were carried out in the Municipality of Tanagra, i.e. basically in the industrial area of Oinofyta, to which you referred in your question. And the thirty-five of the above checks, of which 15 in the Municipality of Tanagra, were carried out in the period from 30 September 2020, that is, we had a tension in the most recent period. This illustrates the importance attached to both the regional section of Boeotia, which is concerned with your question and the specific areas where there is a strong industrial activity. At a global level, the Safety and Health Inspectors of the OSH had checked preventively during the time I mentioned earlier, that is from 11 May to 30 November 2020, a total of six thousand two hundred and fifty-nine businesses and holdings. Following the audits, 50 administrative sanctions - i.e. fines - were imposed and a 15-day suspension of an operation for alleged infringements. In particular, for one case where the maximum proportion of persons per square metre of interior space is not complied with, two cases of non-compliance with the safety distance between individuals, four cases of non-applicability of the dating procedure when serving customers and forty-four cases - i.e. the majority - do not use workers' masks. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the relevant health and safety legislation is based primarily on the legal principle of the responsibility of the employer, who is obliged to ensure the health and safety of workers, who are concerned, in all aspects of work. Without depriving the state of responsibility for the protection of public health, we should understand as a society as a whole that no control mechanism can cover all businesses. In the unprecedented circumstances facing the country and the whole of the planet, it would be wrong to ignore the most important role of individual responsibility, which, of course, is not recorded in the provisions of labour law, but reflects the spirit of both the ordinary and the constitutional legislature in the midst of pandemic, occupying all citizens, employers and all workers. By protecting ourselves, we protect each other. Quite simply, it's impossible to have an APRC inspector in every operation. For this reason, and especially because we are now - as we hope - in the phase of declining the second wave and the gradual opening up of the market, I would like to call, on the occasion of your question, on employers and workers to comply with the measures and protocols provided for, so that no new, horizontal measures, whether local or national, are needed. The audits of the security and health inspectors of the work of the APRC, sometimes carried out with the assistance of the Greek Police and the auditors of the National Transparency Authority, focus on the application of the relevant international or local ministerial decisions to take measures to limit the spread of the coronary, such as the conditions of operation of the undertakings, the rules of social distance and the use of the protective mask, as well as on more general organisational and environmental protection measures as provided for in labour legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u76	Mr Mulkiotis has the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that Oinofytas is indeed an area in which thousands of people go daily, is one of the largest industrial zones in the country, not to mention the largest one. Of course you have referred to audits from the APRC. Unfortunately, however, this government - you did not participate, when it started - since the first day, with the good day of the OSCE, no matter how much it wants to say that controls are being carried out. Officials aren't responsible. Officials shall endeavour to meet their obligations. However, there is such a deterioration in the RDP and in human resources - fully subordinated - that it is impossible - with these conditions being able to meet their basic obligations. I repeat, it's not the officials and the staff. Subscribed and left the APR on his luck. It is not by chance that the APRC will be transferred to the already subordinated OMD. That is an issue, which I mentioned from the outset. The second is that this pandemic of the general nature that exists has highlighted the need to strengthen health and safety at the workplace and, of course, the recognition of COVID 19 as an occupational disease. We have also mentioned this in a previous question and there has been a relevant debate and a relative view of the government. But in the last ten months, which is being tested in total by Greek society, workers have been affected more than ever in this matter, by the consequences of COVID as a whole and the consequences that this pandemic is causing. However, it is well known that workers are still working hard to maintain critical services, but also to satisfy vital needs of society. To date, unfortunately, the government is dealing with COVID -19 only as a risk to public health and not, of course, as a risk factor, because of which they have lost their lives, both workers and workers. I will say, Minister, and I say this very clearly, that the pandemic has worked, so that there is also a violation - yes, a violation of labour rights. In this regard, the question was very specific and concerned with what the Government intends to do and what the Government intends to do in relation to Boeotia, which, as we have said, is in the third week of the universal lockdown and in relation to industrial activity and workers, particularly in the Oinophilus industrial area, where all Attica and other regional units such as Evia are coming. Does the government intend, in addition to direct and ongoing controls, to provide free protection and continuous checks and tests for all regional authorities? Is there a design in this direction, and if there is what timetable? Finally, Minister, we want you to tell us, in addition to what you have said in general, concrete measures for this region, given the constant lockdown. I am not saying that there is an exception, but because of the constant lockdown and red, for three weeks that have been going on, which means that there has been a reason for mobility. Other measures in particular for this region, and for these workers does the government intend to take, plan, plan, plan? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u79	First of all, I would like to refer to three points which Mr Mulkiotis referred to in his second language. The role of RCF is really key. Contrary to what you have claimed, Mr Mulkiotis, the government supports both materially and morally the often superhuman efforts of its officials and we will continue to support them. The second thing I want to say about the support that the government has given to the economy, businesses and workers, is that it was very important throughout the pandemic and as many international comparisons as we have, they show that it was quite a success. On the third point, which you asked me in relation to Boeotia, we are not going to do anything different in Boeotia, in relation to what we are doing all over the State. Of course, as you have seen from the figures I gave you before, the actions in Boeotia were more than they were all over the rest of the country and, above all, in the area of Oinophils and Tanagra, to which you have referred. This, however, is precisely because of the conditions prevailing in this region. In other words, I think that in my prology I have covered the questions raised by your question and what you said in your dentistry and therefore, I would like to stop here and avoid unnecessary stress on the matter. In other words, what I said in my protology applies in full and in secondary terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. The third question under number 2822/416/18-12-2020 will now be discussed and a request for the submission of documents of petitions by the Member of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Extended applications for retirement of Crete". The Secretary of State, Mr Tsakloglu, will answer that question as well. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your placement, and then I'll put the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, a report on Sage Valyrakis. PASOK and Changing Movement with painful pains say goodbye to Sfi Valyrakis, the brave fighter of the anti-ditectoral struggle, the cohesive democrat, the whole man, the dear companion and friend. In his long-standing policy, he honoured Crete. He served the country and the PASOK as a parliamentarian for thirty years as well as as a minister, developing important parliamentary and governmental work. He was the top executive of PAK and the resistance to the dictatorship, next to Andreas Papandreou. He was wanted by the regime on 21 April for three years. Arrested in 1971. He was guarded and tortured at the EBA. He managed to escape, but was arrested again and was taken to Corfu prisons, from which he escaped again swimming in Albania. He was arrested by Albanian authorities as a spy, but was released following international intervention and initiative by Andreas Papandreou. The sea, which he loved and then led him to freedom, today to lead him to his last, the longest journey. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I warmly congratulate him on his report. Our prolongation, the political world in general, Crete and homeland became poorer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u82	Condolences and your resignation, Mr. Kegeroglu. I would now ask you to develop the timely question I read, under number 2822/416/18-12-2020, and on the subject: "Extended applications for retirement Crete". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. It's an unanswered question. It is about the outstanding pensions for Crete, but the problem is more general, since in March 2019 we had a hundred thirteen thousand outstanding basic pensions, and this has evolved gradually and in March 2020 we had sixty-one thousand in September 2020, seventy-three thousand and a similar number there is at this time. These are the main outstanding pensions, not the ones due, of course, except for subsidiary and one-off pensions. It should be noted that of these hundreds of thousands of outstanding basic pensions, today only about forty thousand are receiving a temporary pension, so that there is a strong social problem and, of course, a state's obligation, that is to say, to carry out the process in a short period of time, to draw on it for many years. I have typical examples in both the OGA, which seems to have the least problem, both to the EFCA and to other funds. Yesterday he called me a doctor and waits six years from CSAY, six years whole. In fact, it was said that the mathematical formula for calculating the pension has not yet come out. So what we are asking the Minister - we were asking him in his written question - is how many outstanding pensions are in Crete, in particular, the principal subsidiary and one-off, if there is a specific timetable for the issue of pensions and when he will be able to tell us. Of course, the statements made by Mr Hatzidakis, the new Minister, and the Prime Minister, on the previous visit to the Ministry, have come and we would like to know in detail what is going to happen with this problem, which has now increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, I really thank you for giving me the opportunity to address myself on a really topical subject, because by your question, on the one hand, I would like to describe the fundamental dimensions of an important issue that concerns the Greek society and, on the other, to analyse the actions of the Government to resolve it. The problem of outstanding pensions is not something that has emerged in recent months, not even in recent years. It has been a matter that has been in existence for nearly a decade. Its solution concerns everyone, government and pensioners, since no one is happy with the existence of the problem. The Government received in July 2019 a situation characterised by a growing trend in the outstandings. According to the data from the EBRD, this trend has already begun with the establishment of the EBRD and the organic association of several different funds. It began to gradually deviate in October 2019, approximately until early 2020, but increased significantly during the first pandemic period. However, as early as August 2020, a trend has been reflected in the reduction of outstandings. Despite the difficulties created by pandemic and unprecedented pressures on the entire range of state apparatus, we should not forget that the state's obligation is to provide EKA with the necessary resources for its smooth operation, part of which is, of course, also the adoption of pension decisions. Under these difficult circumstances, a comprehensive plan has been drawn up by the Government and the relevant legislative arrangements have been submitted so that the ECA can further and more rapidly reduce the number of outstanding items. This, of course, until full digitisation of pension award systems, which will be achieved with the full production function of the 'ATLAS' system, and we hope that this serious problem will be resolved. The plan for the current and the next period includes: Firstly, the possibility of temporary staffing the services of the EPC with former retired fund officials who are experienced in the issue of the award of pensions. Secondly, the creation of step-by-step workers by providing additional fees based on the achievement of specific objectives. Third, secondments from other public bodies to EVKA for a period of six months. Fourthly, the temporary disposal of staff by scientific chambers in the ECA. Fifthly, the recruitment of new employees to the ECA to liberate executives with experience in the awarding of pensions now employed in other activities. Sixth, the purchase of laptops, so that ECAA staff can carry out their tasks uninterruptedly. In addition, the Government is considering the recruitment of a private sector manager project, aimed solely at speeding up the award of outstanding pensions. At the same time, the existing legislative framework is codified in order to process as many pension requests as possible from the existing integrated pension award system. The relevant branches shall be strengthened by appropriate logistical infrastructure and the planning of ECAA staff training activities shall be strengthened. As far as the statistics on outstanding pensions are concerned, I would first like to refer to the figures as a whole. On the basis of these figures in 2020, sixty-one thousand seventy-sevenths of a pension claim, which means that it was thirty-eight thousand four hundred forty-seven more requests, compared with 2019 and despite the consequences of our pandemic at the same time. In fact, on the basis of the same data and the monthly breakdown, as I mentioned earlier, the paces of handling these requests were increasingly higher after the end of the first wave of the pandemic. In the total outstandings, which you also referred to, for the main pension at the end of 2020, the remaining applications were a hundred and fifty-four thousand and most of them, about forty-five thousand, concern IKA, thirty-one thousand of the OGA, twenty-eight of the OAU, the former OAU, and about twenty-two thousand of the public. Now specifically for Crete, to which your question, according to EKKA's figures, total outstanding pension applications amount to seven thousand three hundred forty-seven. The three thousand four hundred seventy five relate to the former IKA in the branches of Chania and Heraklion, the thousands of three hundred twelve concern the former OSCE and the two thousand five hundred sixty concern the former OGA. For supplementary pensions, the administration of EVA has informed us that the requests are submitted centrally and therefore there is no geographical distribution of them. The total of outstanding supplementary pensions is less than a hundred twenty thousand, of which fifty - five are overdue. The geographical breakdown also cannot be made for the main pension applications from the former EDF, the NAT, the EFF - SMEs and so on. And finally, the number of single applications is six thousand eight hundred twenty-two, three thousand two forty-two of them. These are the figures for the entire territory. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the government obviously cannot be proud of progress in the field of outstanding pensions. At best, you're in the same mess as SYRIZA's previous government. This is due, despite the fact that many years have passed, the fact that both the Katorugalou and the following have shown that the Ministry of Labour does not understand the way in which the funds should be integrated and the transition from one system to another. I am referring to the fact that there was only substantial consolidation of the administrations initially and the operating systems remained different and that funds with different insurance regulations, but also benefits. We have also discussed in this House the different rules that apply to each former fund and today to the provision by the ECA. What I can see is that what we said a year and a half ago to the government, concrete proposals for pensioners, the use of retired IKA and EKA officials more generally, and the regulation came about a month ago, this proposal has been made a year and a half ago in particular. Then the Minister told us: 'Oh, you know it can't be done'. At the same time we said to keep the contract staff, through the public works and the OAED programme that have already been put at a pace and can help. If the government had kept this world and had a year and a half ago, it was making use of the retired experienced officials, it could now have different results. Unfortunately, he didn't do it but only five. Today what do we see? That you are challenging the very ability of government officials to either be in the ministry or be in the ECA. What will be the manager's institutional position? What we can see is that while there are managers both to the ECA and to the Ministry and to the advisers that each minister has and everything else there is no, Minister, project. The project is missing, not the manager. You've got a lot of managers, but you don't have a plan. You need to let us know whether what the trade unions say and not just that a valuable time has been lost at least six months to gather the pending files from all over Greece, so that everyone can be transferred to a private company here in Attica in order to be digitised, namely that no digitisation is taking place within the ECA and within the services, but it is done in a private place. We want to know if there is privacy in private company management in the area of the private sector that is being done and how many employees from the FBI are following this process in the field at the premises of the private company. This is an issue that has arisen from the latest reports and complaints. In conclusion, we would like to know in particular, based on the government's assessment - why do I not see a plan - the following - when will the outstanding pensions be concerned only in the last quarter? Will you cover it within one year, within a period of one and a half months, or within six months? Please tell us specifically that in six months from now, in one year from now, we will only have the applications made in the last quarter. This concerns the main pensions, so that we do not go any further than the others. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to reiterate that the issue of outstanding pensions is indeed an issue that needs to be addressed immediately. I would also like to point out the Prime Minister's commitment - I reply to your question - to as much as possible to award all outstanding pensions by the end of 2021. I can assure you that the government supports the FBI in its work so that the loose ends will be eliminated within the year. The write-down plan, which I referred briefly to in my prototype, we consider that it gives the right tools to the EVC to carry out this difficult task. But, as I have already pointed out, the ECJ is in the midst of a very important reform, which is its gradual digital transformation. Since July 2020, digital pensions have been awarded starting from widow's pensions and OGA pensions without successive insurance. This process is characterised by very important steps, such as the digitisation of all the pension rules, but mainly by a reduction in the bureaucracy and suffering of citizens. We believe that through this difficult route in the medium term we will lead to a new situation where citizens will enjoy high quality services from the ECA. The specific project with additional measures and the development of modern technologies, drawn up in cooperation with the ECA, is mainly concerned with the most delayed pensions. Until now, a very important effort has been made in a difficult field, contributing to digital transformation, but the effort, for obvious reasons, must be speeded up and there, I will actually agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. We are now entering the fifth under number 2576/11-12-2020 of the questions raised by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct actions to introduce the loaders into the beneficiaries of the special-purpose compensation". And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Before I come to the question, you didn't specify to us, Minister, whether this manager will be inside the FBI, whether he will be under the responsibility of the administration of the FBI, or whether he'll be in the ministry. If you want, tell us. Now, the question concerning the loaders is about those registered in the Ministry of Labour's 2nd Register, where of course, along with the loaders are port operators. For freighters, there has been an aid in the first phase of the pandemic, and what they are calling for is in this second phase and the ongoing crisis which affects them too, that there should be a second form of aid with special compensation. The second answer I would like you to answer, which has come up with - if you know, otherwise see it at the Ministry - is the fact that at the same time, a programme for the training of the loaders has been launched at the same time. The programme was structured, as I was informed by the Ministry's services, so that only freighters can participate in this training programme. However, the same register includes the operators of the loading and unloading equipment in the ports, who also request that they be included in the programme. So either this programme can be supplemented immediately and they too have to be in or a new programme has to be made. However, the main question remains the reinforcement of all freighters by special charges, which they request, whether they are loaders by hand or by machinery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, once again, Mr Kegeroglou, because you are indeed giving me the opportunity to respond to an important and very critical issue, not only on the issue of freighters, obviously, but also on the question of the support of workers and businesses, which are affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Mr Kegeroglu, since the beginning of the pandemic, namely as of 14 April 2019, when the first payments of the special-purpose allowances were made by the end of December of last year, according to the data of the relevant services of the Ministry of Labour, a total of EUR 3.4 billion has been paid from the regular budget for payments of special-purpose allowances, as well as for insurance contributions to e-ECA. In particular, budget transfers to the ECA amounted to 942.5 million euros at the same time. The question you have raised and concerns the actions which the Government will take on financial support and the loaders I can inform you that due to the country's current epidemiological burden and the emergency protective measures to limit the dispersion of COVID -19 the competent agency of the Ministry of Labour promotes a joint ministerial decision to grant special purpose compensation, which will cover, as has been the case since the pandemic principle and the specific categories of workers who are seriously affected, including the cargo industry. The compensation shall be EUR 534 per month. Beneficiaries of the special-purpose compensation will be able to submit a unilaterally responsible declaration to the online platform of the special support mechanism for workers without a declaration by the employer. Therefore, Mr Kegeroglu and the landers - since your question refers to them - will be able to receive the special-purpose compensation, which has already received hundreds of thousands of workers since the beginning of the pandemic. Now, as far as the training programme you asked me was not in your question, I do not know. If you ask another question, I'll be happy to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u94	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u95	I have tabled a written question, Mr Minister, and I hope it will be answered. What, on the basis of what you said, I would like to say, secondly, is the need to have a horizontal support measure for all workers and the self-employed, who are not supported by any other programme and I refer to those who are registered as unemployed in the OAS. Those who are registered as unemployed in the OAS had work, which they lost because of the pandemic last year. It is neither in the form of support for the 'Cooperatives' programme nor in the suspension, nor in the form of unemployment benefits. I'm telling you, it's a lot of hundreds. It must be about three hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens. They are, in principle, seasonal workers in tourism, who did not complete the fifty trademarks. They are the seasonal workers in tourism that filled the fifty marks, they took the three months, but then they are not entitled to any more. They are the workers who were in the Unemployment Fund last year and took an extension for March - April. If you remember, there was an extension for two months. However, they are not entitled to the prior extension announced by the Prime Minister, as the previous one, under the conditions, because they received the extension of March and April. Well, in March and April, they just pulled it out. Now? So what we have also proposed to the previous Minister is a horizontal measure which says unemployed, registered in the OAED registers or self-employed persons who are not supported by any other programme to have two, three months' support on the basis of the unemployment benefit and this benefit, which I think is what they are entitled to, since they have, of course, fallen in the event of unemployment. So I think it is good that, for professionals and special categories of self-employed people, such as freighters, there will be a decision to join support through special-purpose compensation. However, I would again raise the issue of examining the proposal of the Change Movement for a horizontal measure, which will support people who are not receiving financial support from any other programme or measure to survive. The months are many. Families, other than the worker and the unemployed, have other members and cannot survive and go through very difficult. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Kegergulou. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. The pandemic affecting the world is truly unprecedented. We haven't seen anything like this in about a hundred years now. Its consequences on the global economy, but also on the Greek economy, were enormous. Despite high debt and consequent budgetary constraints, the government has not since the first time hesitated to support the affected industries with measures for both businesses and households. As Prime Minister Mitsotakis said a few days ago, the level of support measures last year in our country reached EUR 24 billion, i.e. about 15% of gross domestic product. Comparative studies by international organisations show that our policies were effective, which resulted in an increase in unemployment in our country being much, much less than that recorded in almost all the countries of the European Union. Now, with the development and manufacture of vaccines at high intervals and the vaccination of the vast majority of the population, we hope that, both in our country and in the rest of the world, we will soon be able to leave the pandemic behind. Staying irresistibly on the road to structural reforms, but also with the help of the very important resources available in our country, we believe that this year our country will achieve a high rate of economic growth and will be able to maintain this momentum over the next few years. This is the estimate, not only of the Greek Government, but also of most international organisations and international houses. The benefits of the recovery will be tasted primarily by the branches that have been deeply affected by the pandemic and the workers to them, including the loaders, mentioned in Mr Kegeroglou's question. However, I would also like to say that we hope that this will also lead to a reduction in unemployment, to which Members of Parliament have also referred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too, Minister. We will now proceed to the four questions by Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25. All four questions will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras. It is initially the fourth under number 304/18-1-2021 of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Direct action to prevent the disappearance of the planks in the country. Hazard mark from Peloponnese, Continent and Centrale". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Amyras, good luck in your new duties. I hope you manage to serve the public interest from your new position. It is a very important matter. The plank is, if you like, the biggest and most important tree, is the king of the Greek flora. It is symbolic for Greece, for so many villages founded with the first plantation of a plank. Yet, for almost twenty years now, an epidemic has been developing aggressively, which threatens the planets to exist. All the planets in the country are at risk of being destroyed. It is a matter that I followed in 2010 and 2011 by the European Parliament with relevant questions. After my pressure, the services were mobilized and a circular came out to the operators and construction for the measures to be taken. It is important to say that although this disease, the fungus, has come from abroad, probably from America through France, it is spreading to Greece through man through the branches of the municipalities, the TEDO, as has been documented and scientifically documented, so that electricity and transmission cables are not disturbed, but also through construction works, as is the case with Kalama. In fact, too many of the ecosystems - victims - are in your constituency, for example, Aos and my region, which attract my origin from Zagorochoria. Also, Voidomatis, who has not only been affected but recently recurred to the already contaminated plants, spreading the epidemic further. I'm asking for something clear. It's no longer enough insinuation. We need horizontal bans. The pruning must be banned in general. Where absolutely necessary, however, they should always be done in the presence of workers of the forest service, and only then, and respectively, of the other public works. We are currently living in a dystopia, where scientists consider the planes of Epirus forgotten the planes of the Peloponnese and, respectively, Central. In other words, we must reverse this dystopia, and most of all, we must prevent the phenomenon from spreading to the rest of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Mr Amyras, congratulations on taking up your duties and a good strength in your work. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis, for your wishes and we very clearly have a very wide scope of cooperation in front of us, we do so anyway or we did so in the Committee on the Environment of Parliament. Here, now that we will be able to work together effectively. The issue of metachromatic ulcers, the disease of this platinum, is something that has been particularly concerned with me for too many years. I will also make a small regression, because on the basis of your question, you would also like me to give you a picture of the evolution of this disease. As you know, the problem begins in 2003, it appears in the Peloponnese, and within a decade it spreads almost throughout the Peloponnese and in much of Western Greece and not just Western Greece. In 2011 this fungus was found in Thessaly, in 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively in Ietolokarnania, Fokida, Evrytania, Evia and Fthiotida, while in 2019 in East Attica - last year - in Larissa and Pieria. It is a serious matter, we are very concerned about it. All the services of the Ministry of Rural Development have been mobilised and, of course, the forest services of the Ministry of the Environment have been first made, as you say, the recommendations. In 2019 the Institute for Mediterranean Eco-systems, which is part of the "ELGO - DIMITRA", issued directives, which were shared everywhere, in forestry services, in farmers, in towns, in farmers, in construction companies that had the declarant - to say so - about what they should do and what they should not do, in order not to extend this fungus to other healthy people, to other healthy trees. Unfortunately, this disease is deadly for the platinum. If a plank is offended by this fungus, it is certain that this plank will die. So what do we do? Each year the Ministry of Rural Development makes surveys. As basic instructions and commands we have given it is to quarantine the area that has even appeared a plank sick. What does that quarantine mean? First of all, it's ripe. There is a hard quarantine of fifty meters around the affected tree and a safety belt of one kilometre, as appropriate, and one and a half kilometres, around the spot where this sick platan was found. In these cases, therefore, because you are asking for specific information, I will tell you this: in 2020, last year, by making surveys in collaboration with the Ministry of Rural Development to see where the problem is spreading, we have checked four hundred eighty positions for the presence of this fungus. Two hundred and seventy - three samples were taken for laboratory examination and, unfortunately, sixty - six were found positive in the fungus. In total, its presence in 2020 was found in forty-eight new posts. That's the picture. We have clearly informed, informed and contacted all the forest services, with all the decentralised administrations. We ask them to intensify controls, and where there is, of course, a suspicion or indication of an insulted plank to discontinue all the work within this area, be it pruning or other work. Therefore, in answer to your first question - why are you asking me and whether damages will be claimed from construction companies for the projects to which the disease is spread - I will tell you this: we have asked forest services to collect strong proof of the violation of the measures of ministerial decisions. To add something: The first ministerial decision to address the issue of the presence of this fungus in the Greek forests was in 2004, just one year after this disease occurred. There was no literature on how to deal with the problem and the quarantine was not then placed within measures. That's what's changed. We have drawn up new decisions and we ask for the forest services, the regions and the municipalities, when they have strong evidence for those responsible for the dissemination of fungus, to have the sanctions set out in Article 6 of this ministerial decision, which I mentioned to you, namely the revised one. In fact, as soon as yesterday, I was informed of a violation of the authority of the Corinth Forestry, where he has been appointed to trial. These, as far as the first part of your question is concerned. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is clear that we really have a very powerful tool that is the Institute for Mediterranean Forestry and Mr Chopelas and his colleagues are very well aware of this. Although we have this powerful tool, the situation has not stopped evolving. The epidemic has not stopped spreading. With Mr. Chopela, we worked together in 2010 and 2011, when we started and said the same things we now say about the quarantines and measures taken. It needs a horizontal ban that's clear. You said that you requested and requested the Ministry of Forestry with strong proof. Firstly, I do not know what it means to prove possible and secondly, you know very well that it is completely subordinated at the moment for forest and forestry to be able to carry out a control task and, indeed, not after consultation, as I ask, but for self-control anywhere in a plank that is branched or which we see has happened, that the fungus has been transmitted. So since your government does not decide to substantially strengthen the forests, we really need to go to an explicit ban on pruning. This would reach the ears of the municipalities of the TED. You know that at the moment a big problem is the lack of information, even though I have seen the little spot that has come out of the Ministry, even though some efforts have been made. When I announced the question from my social media, I received messages from all over Greece that they had never heard of this issue. Municipal services had never heard of this matter. This is very important, because we are going to pruning, without the people who deal with pruning, knowing about this problem. However, they must know that they must take protective measures, which are what they are and take them. Despite any information, the TEDO workshops are not taking any action. Mr Tsopelas - he has said so publicly - in the Committee on the Environment of the Parliament in 2018 that strangely, the planks are dying on power lines in the electricity grid. This is because very simply the TEDO crews do not disinfect their tools and infect any plank they trim. This situation must be brought to an end in a clear way. I would like to invite you, in addition to the measures that have been taken in the past, to tell us now that all these measures have not taken a place how you are escalating your own actions in order to stop them. Will you proceed to fines? We know cases where large road-built companies pollute Kalama, for example, in your own area. Are we going to penalise us right now? Are we going to have clear sentences to anyone who goes uncontrollably to the plaques before the end of this kind, the king of Greek fauna? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the plank is the king of the Greek flora and not of the fauna. But that doesn't matter that much. It is important that the plank for us is a social symbol, it is a symbol of the blooming of ecosystems and of course, of protecting the biodiversity of the Greek landscapes and ecosystems. It's something we haven't taken the heart lightly. It is barely something that we are very concerned about. I answer your individual questions. First of all, you talked about the undersubmitment of forest services. That's true. They're subordinated. But we are now preparing an opening in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior to strengthen and recruit seven hundred people who will serve forest services. That's the one I have to tell you in relation to subscribing. Second one. You talked about bans. Whenever a ban is needed and of course universal in an area of course it will be taken. But you know, prevention is important. The prevention includes not only the services of the Ministry of the Environment or forest services. The regions, the municipalities, the forest cooperatives, must be involved, but I will also tell you that every individual citizen in the country is doing agricultural or livestock work. No matter how much eyes you have, as many employees as you have, it's impossible to be next to every one who can go to the yard, not to have disinfected the tools properly, and to pass this disease on to a platform of his land or the next court. So we say that prevention is the important one. That is where we are building and there we will continue to increase the intensity of information and pressure on all those who can be involved in the arrest of this disease. I must also tell you that a sub-measure, which exists under number 8.3, is part of the 2014-2020 Programme of Rural Development, where 8 million euros have already been envisaged for prevention, so that we can finance the actions that we need. These are communication actions as you have said and compensation from the disease and this pathogen that has indeed caused great damage to our forests. I want to be a little more specific about what you asked me about the bans. If the presence - or is seen today, tomorrow or in ten days - of this pathogen-like fungus, immediately the forestry services, I would say automatically, will prohibit logging, platinum plants in the area and any action of this category will only be done with the presence of forest employees. I don't know if you asked me anything else. I guess that's it, I wrote it all down, and I answered it all. Therefore, since you mention the continent many times, my region, my homeland, I also know about Voidomatis, I also know about Aos, I know about the Kalamama river, and I know about the Luro river, I know about the problems that exist. In cooperation with the region of Epirus, with the decentralised administration and with the individual municipalities - such as the Municipality of Zitsas, which is the second largest municipality in Ioannina and has Kalamama river, there is my village, Ecclesochori - with all of them together in the body, we will build an operational plan in the field. There are already these plans, but we will look at the implementation and implementation of either the continent or the Peloponnese, where this problem also exists with the deadly, unfortunately, platinum disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Minister. The fourth timely question with number 305/18-1-2021 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Protection of Lake Koumoundouros', will be discussed. Mr. Amyras will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, now we are going to my constituency, to a diamond of the urban environment, of Attica as a whole, to Lake Koumoundourou. From an archaeological point of view, it was an integral part of the Holy Street and the procession that was made there, dedicated to Persephone. The other twin lake, dedicated to Demetra, was set up to become a refinery. Lake Kumunduro is what we have left. Although we don't have exactly because it's part of a camp, a fuel unit, and there's frequent leaks from there, with an oil spill that seems to have a large extent and affect Lake Kumundur. Also, the same lake is contaminated by the Gender CYTA which, unfortunately, your government insists on continuing to operate. The big question here is that there has been a decision since 1999 to establish and join - we were talking to your predecessor, Mr Economou, that you would proceed in this direction and I would also like your commitment to this - the Regional Park of Poikilo Mounts. It is a very important project for western Athens, for the quality of life of this degraded region's industrial activities. So in the context of this declaration of the regional park, we can really move on to the protection of Lake Koumoundouros, in the first zone of this park, as a protection zone and being detached from the camp. Here I want a second commitment from you that you will recommend to the Minister of National Defence for the release of the lake from the camp. It is important, because even a volunteer of ornithology who went to photograph the ornithonide, in this important wetland that is the lake of Koumoundouros, was found to be arrested and driven into the department. So this Xiroyannis camp thing has to end sometime. In any case, citizens should be allowed to observe birds, with appropriate platforms and equipment. It also includes the lake in the special programme as the first priority within the regulatory plan for the restoration, promotion, management and protection of the wetland. These commitments I ask of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Minister, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u109	Dear Mr Arsenis, of course, it is the lake of Koumoundourou that comes from the past and it is like listening to the voice of the procession of the ancients that followed the known procession of the Athenians. But who said we won't protect Lake Kumundur? On the contrary! You refer to your question if we are going to characterise Lake Koumoundourou as an area of absolute protection of nature. In simple terms, I'll tell you: Yes. Of course, there is no such condition as you call for, there is a different one, but I would say that they have the same practical effect. With the latest environmental law 4685 and Article 46 of this law, areas of biodiversity and of particular ecological importance are divided into two areas. One is the Special Protection Zone, and the second is the Special Zone of Conservation. To incorporate Lake Koumoundourou or another point, another habitat, another ecosystem in one of these two zones that give absolute protection, as you say, namely in the Special Protection Zone, must have preceded a town plan. The area belongs to the Municipality of Aspropyrgos. The Municipality of Aspropyrgos, therefore, amended and reached the end of the year, because we contacted the Mayor of Aspropyrgos, Mr. Melletou, and confirmed that FEK is expected for the general urban plan of his area. In this respect, therefore, the general urban planning plan of its region comes to'swipe' the strategic environmental impact study through the Attica Region. What, then, does this study provide for? It provides that the historic site of Lake Koumoundourou is a special protection area. Special protection areas are those which have considerable physical characteristics and must at all costs be projected, protected and raised, because, apart from the natural element that fascinates, there is a cultural element. In this lake they are interconnected with both. This study clearly stipulates that Lake Koumoundouros is an important site of historical importance, a place of particular natural beauty and an important aquatic habitat for Attica. It is therefore described as a priority wetland which will be included in a special protection programme. So, when this happens - we are very close to doing it, because, as I have told you, I have contacted the Mayor of the Egyptian-Cypriot and they are waiting for FEK so that all of the things that I have said before you can get flesh and bone and move on with your actions and speeches - we will be very close to the absolute protection of the lake. Some actions will, of course, be allowed. Who will they be? It will be hiking and hiking, it will be very clear to watch ornithology, and of course, we will make sure that the henithological guilds are entered in collaboration with the Municipality, the Hellenic Ornithological Society and in collaboration with the Camp and the General Staff of the Army. Beyond the other topics, which we know about ornithorism - and perhaps you do not know - we know that the world's anthonymity brings much more tourist revenue from golf, which is an occupation for rich people, but even from recreational tourism, namely sun and sea. If we ask a citizen out on the road what is the tourist activity that brings most money worldwide, everyone will say: 'The islands', not just Greece, but everywhere. And yet, ornithoral surveillance brings most of the revenues, per capita, tourists. That's what I had to tell you. Regarding the second part of your question, I will stop here to answer you later on for the camp.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much. Minister, you have not answered whether you continue and if you are committed, as your predecessor has said, to the introduction of the Poikilo Mountain Regional Park, which is very important to the inhabitants of western Athens, but also to the inhabitants of Western Attica. So I am pleased that you will assist the municipality's actions, but it is important at a central level to implement what has been decided. I will also await your statements on the camp. Here we have two legs: everything you described cannot be implemented in practice as long as it is part of the camp. As long as it is part of the camp, Lake Kumunduru is impossible to implement. On the other hand, we need the protection of the lake, so that it does not become a place where the ball goes, hence the request for its effective and absolute protection in whatever context the government chooses, but certainly in the context of the regional park. These two are very important in order to be able to become the cultural and environmental resource we need. The West Attica doesn't have many such other wetlands. This means that there are no more migratory birds on their journey to continue to exist, which are very - very important and that is why Lake Koumoundouros is so important, despite at least the terrible pollution of at least periodically. It is also a very important task in the context of what I have asked for and Mrs Mendoni of the Great Cultural Archaeological Walk of Attica, which cannot be from the Holy Street, from the narrows of the Daphne. Starting from the garden of Diomedes opposite the Bloc 15 we continue with the pieces of the Holy Road in front of the Centre of the Feast of the Municipality of Heidari we continue for the Monastery of Dafni, where was the temple of Apollo, opposite the temple of Aphrodite and up to the lake of Koumoundouros and what remained from the ancient Reites. So really, it's multiple important this protection and I invite you to take immediate action in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u112	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, although we are also acquainted with each other, if we met a few years earlier I would invite you - and you would, I am sure - to one of the many cyclists that I had organized together with MONUMENTA. You know MONUMENTA, I imagine. It is an organization for the promotion of the architects, buildings with history and various localities of the city. We ran the Holy Street by bicycle, arrived at the Monastery of Daphne and ended up in Lake Koumoundouros. So I want to tell you that I have an experiential relationship with these landscapes, with these points of cultural and green interest. You are asking me whether I undertake to follow the commitment - which I do not know, I am sorry, I will be informed - of Mr Economou's establishment of the Poikilo Mountain Regional Park. I'll see and answer. Don't ask for any rough answers from me. I'll study and of course let you know. Consider the following: Poikilo or Aegeolo Mount is part of our design within the actions that we will begin next year on the basis of the national reafforestation plan. So we will see all of this in total. We will have a holistic approach to both the Koumoundour Lake and the Poikilo Mounts and the other terms and mountains of the lecanopod. It's all an interconnected ecosystem and that's exactly how we'll see it. In relation to the Camp, there was an correspondence with the Army General Staff and the Ministry of the Environment for two years not now. So the camp, or if you want the GPA, at the request of the Municipality of Aspropyrgos, responded positively that it granted six acres first to serve the Observatory for Ornithony, etc., but under certain conditions. These conditions are good for you too, because it has the right of the GSP to set certain conditions by examining its operational data. Firstly, access to the site should be made through an independent road, which will not involve the existing road network that joins the Athens-Korinthos National Road with the main gate of the camp. Accepted, we understand that. Secondly, in order not to create routes linking the lake and its wider area with the camp site. I agree with that, too. However, there is an interesting revulsion in the correspondence with the Army General Staff. It states that in case of a request for future release of an extra area from the "Xyrogiannis Andreas" Camp this, of course, will be considered. I cannot tell you that we will call for the entire camp 'with good morning' and the military General Staff will consent. We must look at these again, as I have told you, in the light of a holistic, more general and deeper way of dealing with the ecosystems and habitats of Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u114	We enter the eighth time question under number 306/18-1-2021 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Sector Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Environment, on the subject: "Achelou Committee: The Prime Minister announces the violation of the decisions of the Council of State". The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Skreka, I have a shocking statement from the Prime Minister, followed by a shocking statement by the current Minister for the Environment, Mr Skreka, that the government is considering a partial diversion of Acheloos towards the Thessaly. I read the Prime Minister's statements: "It is incomprehensible that more than seven hundred million euros have been wasted by the Greek State for the dams of Sykia and Messochora and that they are seated. At least, in Messochora, which is ready to operate hydroelectric power, there is an unacceptable delay." In fact, it is incomprehensible that this money has been spent, but the incomprehensible is because they have been spent from the beginning, not because the project has stopped. The project has been stopped because the European Directive prohibits water transport in another water region. It's forbidden to take the water and travel where you wish, because it suits you. There is one framework, and that is the framework directive on water. So it causes the public feeling and the concept of law in the country when we have 2020, now to come out of a decision by the Council of State that stops, does not approve, environmental conditions for the medium-sized project and the Prime Minister will come out and say that "I will go ahead, because it is a shame". A similar decision has, of course, also been made by the Court of Justice of the European Union. So I want you to make it clear to us if it is foreseen that the government will respect the decisions of the Council of State or violate them. It is a reasonable question, it comes from statements by both the Prime Minister and the new Minister for the Environment. Also, what are your plans as a whole for diversion and dams? Of course, the big question is: If the problem is water shortages in Thessaly, why do you not implement the plans signed by each of the Environment Ministers to deal with waste reduction measures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u116	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. On a point of order, because both of you have asked them now, I respond to both of us, and we will not have a second language, Mr President. How do we do it? Because the timely question has been structured in two parts, but my dear colleague has tabled both questions now in his prototype. I'll answer both now and then we won't have any dentistry? Mr. Arseni, do you want me to answer everything in total? The President will tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u118	Now answer the basic question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u119	I am sorry, but I will be - in in introductory terms - quite a firm thing to do with you on this issue, Mr Arseni, in relation to the procedure, namely. You're asking me if the government will respect the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. Of course, he'll respect her. It's self-evident. The administration clearly has to follow and apply the judgments of the courts, but rather the Supreme Administrative Court of the country and the requirements arising from national law and Union law. So your first question has already been answered, and I think the answer is self-evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u120	After all, Mr Arsenis, this is what the Constitution imposes. The Constitution clearly states that the government must apply judicial decisions. At least the Prime Minister, on these issues, because he is also a characterised institution, always respects the rulings of the courts. In any case, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u121	Yes, of course. The law requiring the State to apply the judgments of courts is missing. It is an issue that we have discussed many times and have also asked environmental organisations to change. First of all, Mr Amyras, the parliamentary procedure for the topical and urgent debate is that you answer both questions. They are not distinguished on one side and on the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u122	No, no relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u123	It's protology and dentistry. I could have asked you a question. We wouldn't stop having secondary. I just wanted to let you know about the procedure, because I have about three topical questions a week. There's a friction with a huge number of questions in this year and a half. Now, on whether you will respect the decision of the Council of State, I am glad you have said so. So, obviously, it was wrong, and the Prime Minister's statement and your Minister's statement, which I understand you are destroying with this statement. Because I will once again mention to you here that the decision of the Council of State was to cancel the environmental conditions for the Mediterranean hydroelectric power plant. What the Prime Minister said was that: 'at least as far as the Mediterranean is concerned, it is unacceptable to delay its operation'. So we see an obvious intention of the Prime Minister and were the statements made by the then Minister for Rural Development and the current Minister for the Environment concerning the violation of the decisions of the Council of State. I am pleased, however, that you are rejecting these two statements and that is an important news. But let's go on to the point here. Why do you create social automation about or spatial automation between Thessaly and Itelokarnania or Western Greece, when the problem of the lack of water in Thessaly is very specific? There are plans signed by the ministers on how his rehabilitation will proceed and when they do not go any further. Why in Crete, where I had exercised and continued to practice agriculture, are there also stalks in Thessaly? Why have they not gone to the self-evident measures to save water? Accordingly, why are there mappings and drilling control in other parts of Greece and in Thessaly? Why don't we go to self-evident measures? Why are you leaving Thessaly in water shortages - there is also a matter of cultivation, of course - and at the same time you are asking to do multi-finance projects - are 770 million that have been spent, spend more to go on - which are called on to fill a hole bucket? Because the irrigation system right now in Thessaly is a hole bucket. Close the holes! Do not steal water from other regions, which have an environmental need for this water, they also need if you want a future of climate change, which comes and threatens water supply, particularly in western Greece, which, as you should know from Ioannina, is one of the most precipitated areas and all kinds of waterfall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u125	Mr Arseni, in the few years I have been a Member - seven - I have tabled and have supported dozens of topical questions. The parliamentary procedure is simple. We follow the structure of the timely question tabled, and we do not always talk about it. I mean, now I can't answer you for Crete. So let's stay on the Acheloos issue. The key to viewing the issue is the River Laser Management Plans, the so-called LAPDs. These include and provide for the basic measures for the implementation of legislation such as the European Union, through Directive 60/2000, which has given the tebo, so that the waters can be properly protected and managed. So here we have Article 4(7) of this directive. What does this directive and this article say? It says that under conditions any of the planned projects can and will lead to modifications to the physical characteristics of an aqueous system, without being in breach of the Directive. Let's keep this, it's important. In 2014, such a RBR, a plan, i.e. the Management of River Lefkos for Western Central Greece, was developed, including the implementation of the Mezzogiorno and Sykia dams. So this plan, which is being revised now and we in the Ministry of the Environment, are running for this review, given that it has been behind for several years now, what does it say, what is the substance? That the Messochrome dam is not linked to any project - as we called it - a diversion of Acheloos, but is intended to function as hydroelectric and disintegrated from the diversion. Let's hear some figures on the field. So according to the Management Plan, as has already been revised once and, as I have said, we are now heading to the second review, Acheloos at the bottom of the section is completely regulated. In other words, a system which cannot be influenced by the rejection of two hundred and fifty million cubic winters of that above. This amount of two hundred and fifty million cubic cubics, they account for - at the height of the Sykia dam at 17% of the average annual absorption volume, at Stratos, downstream, whose position is the vast majority of consumer uses, at 6.5% of the average annual absorption volume and at the estuary of 6% of the average annual absorption volume. To conclude, therefore, the procedures for implementing the second revision, as I have told you, of the river basin management plans for the aqueous part of the country - all of them - and the competitions for the relevant studies will be launched immediately so that we know how we manage in a revised way, in a sustainable way, and the last drop in our lakes and rivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u126	We now move on to the thirteenth third, with number 310/18-1-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Motocross Reports on Motor Sport in Dangerous and Protected Areas'. And in this timely question will the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras, answer. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr Amyras, as far as the previous ones are concerned, you want to say that it is legal with the European framework directive, when we are convicted of the European Court of Justice, when they do not give us money from the European Union to finance this project. Just because it's illegal and so on. And you want to tell us that there will be no diversion, but the Messochora dam that uses the diversion water will be used. The conclusions are to the citizens. Now, apart from saying about Acheloos' diversion, the Prime Minister did something else. He had visited Parnitha on November 29 with his wife and we saw his wife's videos also doing motocross. The Prime Minister apologized for this paradox, but he never told us where it was and where environmental legislation was violated, which stipulates that the use of motor vehicles in forests and national parks such as Parnitha is prohibited. The important thing, however, is that it has also given an example as Prime Minister of this country - it has given a signal - that it is legal to make motocross everywhere. At the moment I have complaints from Mount Aigaleo, the Poikilo of my region, that citizens who go to walk and the moment they live locked in their homes and need their family to have this way out, breath, contact with nature, are flooded by motocross, enduro and so on. Corresponding to Parnitha, in Penteli, respectively the Cesarean Forest, and so on. So the question is clear: How many infringements of the law on the exercise of motor sports on forest or protected areas have been recorded since 29 November, that is, since the day the Prime Minister's wife did so? Also, who are those responsible for controlling these infringements? What number are they on the basis of their establishment plan and what fines have they been recorded over time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Arseni, as I said before, our paths meet in the areas of ecology, environmental organisations, in an attempt to build a wall against climate change, whatever it may be. We could and can discuss both of us and listen to your proposals on how to protect our natural areas and sensitive ecosystems. We could easily discuss, for example, blackbirds in the forest of Dadia, who are currently nesting in pine trees and are a population which is constantly falling and heading for extinction. We could even talk about the net ghosts that exist at the bottom of Gyro and pose a danger - death for small seals, which have been involved in these abandoned nets for years on the bottoms and are dying of suffocation. There is a lot we can talk about, and I hoped you'd like to talk about the substance. I do not hide from you that I am a little disappointed by this parapolitical, micropolitical spirit of your question, but here I live, and we will see it all. So what do we say? First of all, how are they protected, as you write in your timely question, by the national parks of Parnitha, ropes, Kessarian and Varicil terms and by how many employees? You're asking me what means. So to understand, how this issue can be handled and dealt with, let's see a little bit what the situation has been for the New Democracy Government in the summer of 2019. In 2019, therefore, there were twenty-eight eight eight eight institutions of management of protected areas. Why am I saying twenty-eight-eight-eight? Because the eight of the thirty-six management bodies had only boards, they didn't even have offices, they had neither one worker nor one guard on the ground. We are talking about many regions, about Crete, about the Cyclades, about a thousand two. Also terrible, terrible shortages in staff by management bodies, which led to too many delays in making decisions and moving things forward. And also, pluralism and confusion. I would point out to you, therefore, that the management body of Parnitha employs seven forest protection officials from the graduates of IEK, while the respective body of the National Park of Spines, Marathon, Hymettus and Northeast Attica has five guards, which is what many of the areas from the guards are. There is also the other, the guardians of this second park I told you, the management body of this protected area, are using one of the two cut-off service vehicles because of the legislation. That is what we are changing radically. We're changing this regime. We have organised, founded, set up the OPFYPEKA, the Natural Environment and Climate Change Agency, which the world will start to hear often now. How's Ofplaka doing? It is an umbrella that takes care of all protected areas with scientific evidence, centrally designed, but locally managed. I therefore hope that you will support us when we bring in a provision which enables management bodies or, if you like, the new terminology, management units. So we will be able to hire people. I would like to ask you, too, and answer your dentistry: will you support the regulation by which we will provide for the possibility for the guards to carry out inquiries? In other words, testify to infringement and impose fines? Or are you going to go to the bars and say 'no police rule in the forests'? So I would like you to answer that in your second language. Are you going to support us or not? But most importantly, that's not it. This is of course also very important, but most importantly, we will mobilise and we are already mobilising all environmental organisations active in locally protected areas. We will act above all local communities. We will all commit ourselves so that the protected areas really leave the lethargy and come to life, for the benefit of all local societies and ecosystems and, secondly, in our fight to preserve biodiversity and, of course, to tackling climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u130	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Poikilo is not a national park, but it's okay, you can make it a regional park, and that's what we're asking. We agree on many, yes, but we disagree vertically on very central issues. We disagree on mining. We disagree on Acheloos' diversion, as we have just seen. Tell us about the Dadia, what about the wind parks that are designed right in the area. What about Andros with the spark, who has now come out of a decision by Mr. Diopoulos from the Ministry, who suddenly became the breeding period from February and then, can therefore continue work, despite all the scientific data we have from LIFE, by international programmes. Because we know that since January it's reproduction. And a lot, a lot more. Mining in the marine environment, for the seals mentioned, etc. So, if you want to agree, ideas must also have consequences in terms of production policy, decisions, what we are voting on and what we are implementing. There, I wish we could agree. You'll have to change radically as a government. Now, if we would support workers having a right to impose a fine, yes, we support it, of course. We would not support the creation of another body under the Greek Police to do so. We wouldn't support other policemen recruiting them. We would not support that. But to stay the management bodies and these three hundred forty-four workers, many of whom have been renewing their contracts for over fifteen years, being able to simulate themselves and have all the tools in their hands to make controls and protect the region, yes, we support this, of course. Not only do we support it, we invite you to do it. We call on you to move on to permanent recruitment of workers and to stop this intergovernmental hostage with one-year and a few-year-old contracts all over the years. We invite you to do it! We also call on you to strengthen the Forest Service, which currently has relevant powers to impose fines. We also invite you to take specific measures. I think the Prime Minister himself should do so, given his mistake - as he says or I do not know exactly how he describes it - a complaint against the motocross and say that this violation of environmental legislation is not acceptable. Because the message that exists in society right now is that, after the Mitsotakis family made a motocross, anyone can do it. This message I invite you to dismantle, because it is a message that has been sent, well or badly by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Arsenis, first of all, in order not to fail, I will give you the information you have asked for and then I will return to the second point. For violations of motocross in forest protected areas after 29 November 2020, as you ask me, according to the decentralised administrations, two instances of the execution of motocross by private individuals have been recorded: On 19 and 31 December 2020 within the area A3 of the National Park of Shinia, which includes the coastal pine forest of pineapple and pine trees, where according to the designation of land and marine areas of Schinia and the Marathon of Attica as a national park is a protection area of nature, in which the transit and parking of motor-vehicles is prohibited. We contacted the decentralised administrations and learned that in these two incidents, people who had contact with the machines - they obviously did not know, they did not have the labels - they were made recommendations and they left. That's it. I see, however, that you are insisting on the micropolitical aspect of your question. So let me tell you this. First of all, you should know, like all of us, that you and I and all of us, in addition to protecting the natural environment, must also protect the political environment. Because populism, mud and hollow words often lead to the wrong conclusions, if not always. On the substance. Whether there was a violation we're looking into it. Of course, whatever the law provides, this will be applied. There's no point in that. All citizens are equal before the law. It's over. Let's go down. I hope that your next question will not fish in blurred waters, because this small policy of yours - so I would say - inspiration somehow blurs the waters. The substance is one. How will we protect the areas of particularly good, of particular value to our ecosystems? In what way? I already told you two - three things. With the agency that coordinates all the bodies, former bodies, that is to say, management units of protected areas, with a sufficient number of personnel, administrative and management and scientific staff, with all the moves we need to make to bring the local society to an active partner in protecting these habitats, and clearly whatever moves we need to bring them. We're studying it all. I am in complete cooperation with the President of the Agency, of the OFPEKA, of Ms Papadopoulou and with the CEO, Mr Triantine, and we have put it all down, because we are following the Prime Minister's dogma. What is the doctrine of Prime Minister Mitsotakis? It is that all human actions and human activities are being expelled from the environment and end up in the environment. Therefore, the protection of the natural environment is our GPS and the new economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, too, Minister. I would also like to say that a great lawyer, who was involved in environmental law - perhaps Mr Tagaras knows - had said that the environment is nothing but an extension of ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u135	Oh, of course, clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u136	So we all have a duty to protect it. We are now entering the debate on the next question. It is the 11th Question No 308/18-1-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'NATURA 2000' wind parks. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, there is a continuation of this question on the substance of a debate we had with Mr Economou and the commitments he made in the Chamber. However, because the political leadership has changed beyond you, the aim of the question is to see if the commitments from the new political leadership apply. It concerns two issues: one is, if you like, something I had worked for both the European Parliament and the past and I too. It's an international initiative. At the moment we have succeeded, road-free areas being in protection status and there are corresponding research programmes in both the European Union and abroad and at UN level by mapping. We have a program, a study by the University of Ioannina, Professor Kathis and the research team of the University of Ioannina published in pepper - review magazine and document that Greece has six mountains of global importance for their proximity, six mountains that have remained without road network for over fifty square kilometres. It's really impressive, how much more when one is on an island in Samothraki. It's Samothraki's saos. The rest is from Taygeto, the White Mountains, Olympus, Typhus and Smolica. We were told by Mr Economou that you were committed - to see the study - and if scientific criteria are visible, to protect them. I want this commitment from you too. The second thing Mr Economou said, and I quote it, is that, with regard to the EIA applications in the NATURA area, the wind, mainly 'NATURA', is that 'the applications made or to be made in the future in these areas - 'NATURA 2000' - that is to say, the establishment of wind parks will be judged in the context of the findings of these studies, that is, specific environmental studies, for which we have been condemned by the Court of Justice. I want you to repeat this clear statement. Why is it so important? Because at the moment we have an area that is not only 'NATURA' but is being implemented and canceled with the installation of the wind a 'LIFE' programme in Andros for the Spinach. We have a wind park facility and we really see this phenomenon spread, even though we have been condemned for the non-protection of NATURA areas. So we want you to repeat Mr Economou's express commitments, the explicit commitments of the previous political leadership.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Minister, Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I am aware - because we have the pleasure and honour of communicating through questions together - the issues relating to environmental protection and I am aware of your sensitivity around this area, which I respect at the same time. My answer is, from the outset, this: Of course, it will be taken into account and evaluated by the study of the University of Ioannina and any specific study, which highlights the peculiarities we have in our nature, the environment, especially in such areas as those that you mentioned. It is one of the issues that will be assessed and in the light of the studies that are being carried out - you know - and the specific spatial study, which relates in substance to an amendment - of the old current in relation to renewable energy sources - that this revision is under way - and in relation to the specific environmental studies that are being carried out in the protected areas, where all the comments will be taken into account and assessed, and you will be sure to change things in relation to the current ones. You are also aware that the national energy and climate plan, in relation to the national climate change adaptation plan, makes an effort, which I consider to be organised and with funding that has never happened before, in terms of protecting and highlighting sensitive areas and, of course, biodiversity and the Recovery Fund, as well as the new NRP. My colleague and OPHYPEKA were also mentioned before, a symbolic, but also essential move, to coordinate, control forces, join forces and achieve better results, with better management capacity and capable of responding to this objective: Local town planning plans come to cover a timeless huge gap, involving land use and what is allowed and what is forbidden in each region, of course taking into account all the peculiarities, much more like those which you referred to at the start of our debate. In fact, I would like to say that, from the special spatial planning point of view, all these areas, that is to say in such areas, but also in the opening of roads - which is another major issue - in virgin areas, all of this will be assessed. Be sure that in the end, better results will come about, precisely because the same sensitivity you have, we have the same sensitivity, and it is our responsibility to do what is needed to protect the space. But since time is up, I will come back and continue in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I forgot to read Mr Economou's exact statement here, in this Chamber and from these positions. It refers to the road-free areas, the six mountains. It says: "I think this tool is extremely useful and we will also use it in the specific spatial frameworks, not only of the RES, but also of the rest". It does not say, we will look into it, but 'we will use it'. So I really want to. Let me know if you agree with the whole statement. He also told us - and it was very interesting - that the winds in Samothraki will not go ahead, that is, what is currently under way, which I also imagine you know from your responsibilities. It will be very interesting to repeat this statement, otherwise I will come back with a special timeline. So it is very important from your statements - because it listens to us a lot of people, it is an issue that is of great interest - to be clear what will be done for both NATURA and the six mountains without roads, to an extent of more than five square kilometres. Also, if you can tell us about Samothraki, about Mount Saos, about the winds there, as Mr Economou said respectively. It's just issues. We are simply asking for confirmation of what has already been said, with the clarity that will make the message possible, at least the good that has arisen from the timely questions of the past, to continue to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u142	The Minister has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, Mr Economou says that we will use what you have referred to and in the specific spatial frameworks for renewable energy sources. I repeat the same word: of course. And when I said 'will be evaluated', I did not say so to get past it, but all the studies are evaluated. Because all the effects on all the issues are multi-parametric, I have said that they will be assessed and taken into account. I did not say to go beyond the word of the usefulness of the university study, which the Ministry of the Environment has financed, and of course, the money we have given is for the results obtained and are important for sensitive areas and should not just be read and assessed, but should be taken seriously into account and finally help in the final decisions. With regard to the issue, therefore, where you referred, my answer is straight and identical to that which my colleague, Mr Dimitris Economou, had mentioned before. As far as the roads are concerned, everything takes into account and I am not talking about these areas where you have been referring. As to what we define with the verdict, environmental legislation provides for specific protection and characterisation regimes and forestry legislation and this is strict on such matters. We will examine everything, taking into account all the parameters. The parameter of protection is dominant. Fire protection is important. The question of access, where there is a need to take protective measures, will be taken into account, so like all that you have referred to. I would just like to say on the print, in terms of opening up forest roads and more of the dirt roads, as a print on mountains in particular, that the European sealing index, that is, those that are not lame in terms of the final product, is 0.96% of our country's territory, when the average is 1.48%. In conclusion and taking into account the particularities of the sensitive areas, which will be the first series of evaluation and the final results to be obtained, we want to protect the protected areas, not only for our children, but also for the future generations. This bet is our responsibility. I'd say it's the responsibility of all of us. That is why you will soon expect changes in the status of renewable energy sources, particularly in very sensitive environments and in very important NATURA areas, in priority habitats and in altitude issues as well as in other features. It is one of the issues where there will soon be developments and decisions, of course, in connection with the Special Environmental Study in each region, the local urban planning plans, the specific spatial frameworks. All this should be directed towards, interact, so that we can finally make legislation which in practice protects what we all have a responsibility to protect, what we all have to deliver to the next generations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now entering the last, twelfth, with number 309/18-1-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of MP B2' West Athens Department of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Thessaloniki: PTH as Greek. From Metropolitan Park to Metropolitan Earth Winning." The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all, for our viewers, to say that the reason why these questions are so crowded is because there was a request from the Ministry for them to be transferred for this week is why they accumulated. It's not normal. Very quickly, I just want to say one thing from the previous question, because by mentioning, you compared us with the streets we have in Greece in relation to abroad. The European South is an ark of biodiversity and Greece, especially because of the history of glaciers and so on. We don't have to go into details. We also have mountainous tumors - which often do not have - and have too many plains. So this comparison may be non-productive in terms of the protected object. As far as Thessaloniki is concerned, we have a bad tradition in Thessaloniki. They change decisions concerning the present and the future of the city with a statement by the Prime Minister. Thus the overthrow of maintenance by country of antiquities in Venizelos began and now we have the overthrow of the transfer, announced in 1999, of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition outside the city and the conversion of its space into a Metropolitan Park. This case is particularly important because the plan of the Emrar, designed by the 2017 fire, the construction plan of Thessaloniki, both 1965 and 1985, was reversed by the General Urban Plan of Thessaloniki. All urban planning on the basis of studies is reversed, with a statement by the Prime Minister. This, you know, has inside and the nature of the challenge, the levelling-up of urban and spatial science, but also a heavy impact on the quality of life. You see, on Karamanlis, the historic center of the city was built. What stayed like a breath is this zone, which is the Exhibition, the University Town and the Park in Old Beach and Nea Beach - the park basically in Nea Beach - which provide a way out from the city to Chortiatis and nature and the environment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They also provide the opportunity to unify the Old Beach and Nea Beach through the Exhibition and the University Town to Shahik Sou, the creation of a zone of a regional park. This is what you annul with this decision, and I would therefore like you to commit that these will be respected, that is, our laws, through spatial and town plans, that they will not be overthrown, and that the area of the Exhibition will be parked, that will become part of the puzzle of the fight against the climate crisis and opportunity for the Thessalonians to have a green lung in practice within the historic center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, we are debating another major issue concerning northern Greece and, in particular, Thessaloniki. Although we're talking about the city, the work we're talking about is beyond. It does not concern northern Greece, but also the Balkans in general, because the role of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki is multifaceted, it also has symbolism, it also has substance, but it also has multiplier effects. It is true, as you have said, that the years 1965-1985 were different designs with various proposals. There's been a lot of conversations with everyone. You know, in Greece, we're too late to plan. But, and when we plan, we are too late to perform and in the end, there is no work. As far as this is concerned, I know that there have been detailed discussions with all the institutions. There were various suggestions and opinions, there were parties that expressed their position in relation to the refreshment in this position or the transfer to the west side of the city and ended up refreshing the place where the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki exists. You know, right now that we are debating and because I said that there is agreement from the overwhelming majority, I would like to say that I am referring to primary self-government and secondary selfgovernment and the Mayor of Thessaloniki and the Director of Central Macedonia and to institutions that have developed their positions. In fact, yesterday in the press of Thessaloniki, there was reference to the particular subject you raised, but also to reflection. I respect everyone's views and certainly in every decision there are positive but also negative ones. It's not about stealing into the same city, in the same area, one side of the other's development. The point is that all the regions and the whole region, the whole of Thessaloniki, northern Greece, should develop even further forwards and play the role that we can do in the future as well as we want to play in the future. With these remarks, therefore, I would like to say that as far as the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki is concerned, in addition to the proposals made by the mayors in the area, there are other complementary ones. It is not only the IDU, but there are other development projects, such as the Camp "Pavlou Mela", the Camp "Kotra", the coastal front and other development opportunities, which can upgrade the entire city on all sides, in the center, east and west. However, it is a pity to return when we have reached a point of implementation of the project with significant funding and to redesign from the outset. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] But since time is over, I will complete my position in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, they say that we are not planning in Greece and yet, Thessaloniki is an exception. It is an exception because of Venizelos, who had been transferred to the city at the time with the events with the King and the participation in Adad, who brought Emperor and designed the city from the beginning after the 1917 fire, we then have this first spatial study, the Thessaloniki Spatial Study, in 1965 and in 1985 with Tritsi's policy and the following ones. Thessaloniki is planning and we have entered the process of implementation. What we are experiencing is the overthrow of an undisturbed scientific design and result, which, as many times as studied, came to the same conclusion. And there comes a Prime Minister, who is not even a scientist in the sector, but is it not the competent institution to decide to overthrow urban and spatial planning? What country are we? As in the case of Venizelos, it is not a question of whether a political or social body disagrees or agrees. The question is what science predicts on this issue. If you want to go to the objectors, I can read to you mayor's lists. Seven mayors disagree with the work, Mr. Kyrizoglou of the Vineyards - Meneme, Mr.Ioannides of Delta, Mandalianos Cordeliou - Evosmou, Danielides Sicily, Neapoli, Paul Mela, Chalcedon, Oreokastro. Is it important to go to such figures? Doesn't it matter whether we have the meaning of spatial planning, which you said he was suffering from in our country? Here, then, we had an example that didn't suffer. Why are we overthrowing it? As for planning and funding, it still makes me a little impression about what you're saying. Here we have a town with the lowest percentage of green per inhabitant in all of Europe! And in this town, what are you doing? Do you give PPP the site of the exhibition and will you increase the construction, the height of the buildings? Will you create other exhibition centers, hotels, restaurants and shopping spaces? You're going to set up a shopping mall next to the mall? Does this seem to you modern European exploitation, in response to unthinkable green conditions in Thessaloniki? Does it make sense to you? Tell me the obvious question: How is what you propose consistent with the adaptation and response of the environmental and climate crisis? In the city we've been referred to for air quality, you bring activities downtown. These questions, I hope, will be considered careless and I hope you will respond in the simple way, which is the reintroduction of scientific logic. What has been decided and planned for so long, exceptionally in Thessaloniki - because otherwise we do not have a plan - to implement the regional park and not this project that is a real estate project in the centre of the city. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr Arseni. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, indeed, the plan is important for anyone to know what they want to implement. However, when fifty and sixty years have passed since it was made, the data have changed. The design is meaningful when followed by its application, taking into account the data at the time of design and with a horizon ahead, so that it can meet the needs and objectives for which it is designed. But this is where we've been talking after sixty years. It is not the same topics and problems and the same conditions at the time with today. In any case, since '85 it's been about forty years. It's too many years from the design you've been doing until you implement it, because it's just, they've changed too much data. In any case, you should be able to do what you plan to do as a project. What can we do with the design when it's never implemented? It's because of something. What has been decided over the last ten years exceeds a government and a party, is horizontally acceptable by the large majority and by almost all institutional actors. Of course, have there been recently, but when have these different opinions been created? When the Special Urban Plan, which concerns the development and renewal of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, is it already on the Council of State for Edition, on the subject that we have been discussing and on what we have been agreed over the last 10 years, when there has been an international architectural competition at the moment when we are talking and developing and a hundred-sixteen proposals have been tabled by large architectural offices for the projects, the implementation and implementation of the project, are we now coming to the source, which we have made so far on implementation and on the project to reopen discussion from the outset? I want to tell you that this is not just about Thessaloniki. Unfortunately, it is all about Greece. It is dominating the implementation of the town plans and the spatial plans you have mentioned, because they have been delayed for up to eighty years. They have now lost their goal of serving. That is why, after we have got this far, I think we must quickly - that is what we are doing - move on to the implementation of the project. With regard to western Thessaloniki and eastern Greece, other projects are evolving. We are here to discuss with everyone, add other development actions that complement each other, so that all of Thessaloniki can grow and not try to steal growth from the other. So we can't go forward. Only by adding, supplementing and interconnecting the benefits of growth, all Greece and all citizens will go forward. With these remarks, I consider it crucial that what is our responsibility, go ahead with all the things that are evolving and in consultation and cooperation for any improvement. Because it's in the process of being completed. Until we end up with the design, we are here to discuss them with all the actors and finally to arrive at the best possible result, but not by making a delay, filling out what else is there, not every time we get to the source to drink water to come back. I would like to say to you - I know many cases throughout Greece - that many opportunities have been lost for that very reason. Let us sit down and do it and I am here, with all the parties concerned, respecting their anxiety, respecting the peculiarities. There are things that can unite us and complement the development that concerns the whole of Thessaloniki, the whole of northern Greece. These are the ways to fund, plan, but also execute, the projects that they need. With these remarks, I think it is crucial that the bet in 2026, a hundred years after the operation of the IGC, be able to see in practice what we are talking about at last. We are talking about bioliquid buildings, about a large park that is to be created, about integrated urban renewal that respects the environment and along with other activities that are being developed - because you have referred to small particles and the issue of the quality of the atmosphere - all of this in conjunction with developments in traffic issues and through the sustainable urban mobility plans and through the replications, which will be developed in the wider space and throughout the region, will slowly change the environmental footprint. The development must be of concern and it will be of concern to all of the regions of Thessaloniki. I'm a champion of this. I repeat that all that is judged is time, to move quickly to see in practice what Thessaloniki wants and all its aspects. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-25-S1-commons.u153	With the agreement of the House at 17.50 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 January 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
