tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0001par0001	I'm opening the 111th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda is İzmir MP Hasan Kalyoncu who wants to talk about Izmir's environmental problems. Here you go, Mr. Kalyoncu.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0002par0007	Mr. President, dear MPs, I've been promised off the agenda of my election district, Izmir's environmental issues, and I salute the General Assembly. Global warming and climate change have a negative effect on our cities as well as on every aspect of life. Among our cities is Izmir, the pearl of the Aegean. İzmir Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's statement is a 40-year-old Turkish home. He is struggling with many problems today. As I said earlier, all municipalities must prioritize their priorities to infrastructure and work to minimize climate change impacts. In this context, Izmir, the first thing that comes to mind is the contamination of the bay and the smell problem that is being discussed these days. As the weather heats up, the chemical reactions will accelerate, and the smell problems will continue to increase in areas where garbage and sewage systems pass. In particular, the smell problem around the decontamination plant will cause bigger problems. As in many counties, in Izmir, the sewer system and rainwater conduits have not been separated. For this reason, especially in the rainy weather, wastewater treatment facilities are not able to work due to overload, and wastewaters are left untreated. Due to the lack of effective work of treatment facilities, the decontamination of wastewater is not properly done, so the receiving environment is contaminated. This is one of the sources that contaminated the Gulf of Izmir. The other is the burden of pollution from surface resources and streams that enter the bay. In addition, water from agricultural areas, described as "released sources," especially in rainy times, causes pollution and increases organic cargo in the Gulf. As a result, the problem of smell from pollution is very disturbing to our people. If the situation continues, it should be expected to be seen in the Gulf of Izmir, as in the Sea of Marmara. The increase in sea lettuce in the Gulf of Izmir is also due to the lack of good treatment facilities. In the Gulf of Izmir, the ecosystem will be corrupted and become the source of many new problems. These days, the bottom mud in the Gulf of Izmir is planned to clean up, but there will be no solution without removing pollutant resources. From day to day, the pollution and problems caused by the Gulf of Izmir are increasing. Besides, wastewater treatment facilities in the Gediz basin must be built and activated immediately in the planned Little Menderes basin, in the Copperchay Basin. For example, the Bırçay (Bırçay) of the sewers of Kınik district must be terminated immediately. Since our existing streams are used in agricultural irrigation, pollution directly threatens human health. Members of parliament, the most important drinking water source in İzmir is the Boarded Dam, where the sewer entrances are known, and with extreme rains, this event is growing. These pollutants need to be contained immediately. Or in the near future, the Wooded Dam will be no more than a drinking water basin. Izmir's drinking water must be protected and given clean water to our citizens. In addition, according to the state of Izmir, there are 87 thousand septic bodies that are not connected to the sewers, and only 8.895 are not leaked, and there is no inventory of the situation of others, and it is not known whether these septices have impacts on agriculture, environment, and human health. Besides, there are big problems in the dumpsters. Lastly, according to media reports, the Fountain City is illegally storing garbage in the old dumpster, with a lot of problems in the Harmandaian dumpster. If the process continues, our beautiful Izmir... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0003par0015	I've moved the minutes.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0002par0016	Well, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0003par0017	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0002par0018	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0003par0020	We won't meet your demands for a minute today. Our assessment of the group's vice presidents yesterday came to this conclusion. The second word off the agenda is from Kütahya MP Ali Fazil Kırbaş, who wants to speak about the problems of physicians. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute the General Assembly. This is the final point in the twenty-year period of AK PARTY in health. A doctor friend, a colleague of mine, is tearing up his diploma in Urbana Viranşehir, and the last thing we've come to in health is dear friends. His mother has an explanation, I want to say it, I want to read it: I watched videos where I raised a baby hand, didn't flip, grew up and doctored my son, tried to be lynched by eight people today. I'm the mother of four doctors, my heart can't handle it, and who's going to pay for it? Our fellow physician tore his diploma, and the Minister of Health threw it away -- the health community already knows him as the minister of tweet -- and what happened in the end is what the Minister of Health said to our Sheikhmus brother: take the TUS exam, brother. Don't experts get beaten up, experts get beaten up, experts get stabbed, experts get killed? That's the last thing you've come to in health. So, how did we get here? Mr. EC PARTY Chairman Recep Tayyip Erdogan said: "If they leave, let them go. " The same Erdogan opened a hospital. Where? At the top of Somalia, at Mogadishu, for $50 million. Where did they open it? They opened it in Sudan.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0005par0026	They distributed farms in Sudan, farms.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0004par0027	So why don't you treat the same healthcare system -- the finance budget was discussed the previous day -- instead of foreign hospitals that cost a few hundred million dollars -- for $110 million, you're treating the 110 SMA-based child, do you have a conscience? You leave him to die knowingly, knowingly. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, how did you get here? Look, right now, all the doctors in Turkey, all the doctors without exception, get paid below the poverty line, but you have a different crew, you have people from different AK PARTY organizations, organizations, non-medicine staff, who get paid over $20,000. Look at it the same way, I've told you over and over again, the money paid by a fellow professor who works at a hospital a thousand meters from here is $12,800, that's his payroll. My fellow public defenders, family physicians, they have a thousand liras, $5,000 payroll, and I can give it to all of you, and May's payroll is $7,000. A doctor who does not work for a week, a doctor who takes a week off, a doctor who receives a week's report gets these salaries. You failed the dating system in the health system. In the healthcare system, you've given them a follow-up, 20, 30 lira MRIs, C.T.s, city hospitals that you've included in the system, you've priced them for 150, 200 lira, and you've put our people under five minutes of examination.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0006par0031	Wait a minute.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0004par0032	And right now none of us can make an appointment, including my congressman friends. You make phone calls, don't break them, make an appointment, and that system is over. Do you know where the health care system you're always bragging about in Turkey comes from, dear friends? Your healthcare system is where the economy is. The better our economy is, the better the health system is, and there's a unit that the Ministry of Health has opened for health tourism: a patient from abroad will come, a doctor from abroad will come. On the contrary, physicians are now moving abroad. The number of physicians who left this month has reached 250. There is no place in German courses at the moment. Hospitals are falling out, physicians are fleeing abroad, physicians are resigning. They may have sent you the number of resignations in your social media accounts yesterday, but you can't count them. If the physicians are beaten, the physicians are despised, and they go to the physicians, let them go. How long will you be able to sustain the health system in what they call an environment? In this year's last session of parliament, I would like to say that we are heading towards an unhealthy Turkey, and medical graduates, including all university students, are now going to German courses, English courses, not Tus. That's the last thing you do in health. Finally, I'd like to say that it's like a breath of health in a government jihad. As he says, it seems to me you've misunderstood him. The physicians are going abroad, thanks to you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So you're on your way to dealing with imported doctors now? Make a phone call today to prove the inability and unlawfulness of the dating system. Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0007par0039	They didn't put a cast on the health subcontractor. They've taken care of health, too.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0008par0040	The third word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Huseyin Yayman, the Hatay MP who asked for a statement about the republic's 100th year and the future of Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Sagittarius.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0009par0043	Mr. President, I respectfully salute our esteemed MPs, our Veterans Assembly, our very dear citizens who are watching us on the screen. It's Maritime and Kabotage Day. I congratulate you on our declaration of independence from Turkish sailors, the Festival of Kabotaj. Good luck to our entire naval community and to our beloved nation. We are already celebrating the feast of the sacrifice of our beloved nation. Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath today about the 100th year of our republic and the future of Turkey. One year before the 100th year of our Republic, we are all very excited and happy. We sincerely believe that our Republic is an orphan; a hundred years later, our republic is not only in our region, but in a model country in the world and in a truly global world, it continues its course as a model country. The year 2023 would be the beginning of the 100th year of our republic, but the beginning of a new Turkish story and the story of raising our country to the level of murky civilization. Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, as we all know, make great leaders of the great works, and once again we remember the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. His greatest work is our republic. So this great republic established by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, with the great works of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the last 20 years, in transportation, in health, in industry, in development, in the fight against terrorism, in the national defense, and in fact in the 2th century of our republic, he continues his journey as more confident, more comfortable, and more hopeful. The NATO summit in Madrid has once again demonstrated the geopolitical, geostrategic importance of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Turkey did not win the summit at Madrid. We take it as normal. Our nation knows very well that the state of the Republic of Turkey is working day and night to rise to the level of a troubled civilization. Hopefully, as our 21st-century President said, Turgut Ozal will be the age of Turkey and Turks as Turgut Ozal said. Turkey is at a better point than it was yesterday. Hopefully, he'll be in a much better place next semester. 2023 is a new beginning, a refresher, and a new beginning to the story that will raise our republic to the level of murky civilization. Mr. President, there are few developments that make us hopeful. First, the will and power of our beloved nation. The second is that it is Turkey's greatest hope that we will step out of the parliamentary system and come into the presidential system as a chain on our foot. On this occasion, I would like to say once again that the request for a new constitution is a need of civil, democratic, modern constitution, like bread, like water. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, I hereby congratulate you again on the 83rd anniversary of our Hatay's entry into the motherland. At first, Tayfur Sökmen, Abdurrahman Melek and Abdulgani Türkmen, I thank the great Kova people with mercy. Just as you and I don't exist yesterday; there are us, Hatay. If they say that the spirit has brought Hatay to the motherland, then today we say: Hatay is Turkish, he will remain Turkish.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0010par0052	You made Syria Hatay, Syria!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0009par0053	Once again, I salute you with love. Happy Eid.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0011par0055	The members of the group are not required to speak. Mr. Tenet, do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0012par0057	Yeah.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0011par0058	Yeah, I promise you for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0012par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate our July 1st Maritime and Kabotaj Day, which symbolizes our independence and sovereignty in our black waters and consolidates our rights to sovereignty in the blue land. I greet all our sailors who have contributed to the development of Turkish seamanship. I remember our martyrs who lost their lives in the sea with mercy and gratitude. After the first day of NATO's Summit of Leaders, Finnish President Sauli Niinistö said nothing has changed in his statement on the memorandum of understanding between Sweden, Turkey and Finland. That's exactly what we pointed out at our group meeting this week.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0013par0065	Pack it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0012par0066	As our President-General Coral Akşener put it, the agreement text was not defined as the YPG terrorist organization. Did Mr. Erdogan and his team not see this statement in the text, or did he skip it or did he accept it? All three are an unacceptable oasis for our foreign policy. If the terrorist organization is to be armed under the name of human aid and nothing has changed, then Mr. Erdoğan has been deceived again if the PKK continues to continue its terrorist propaganda in Finland. Clearly, the ruling party has lost its ability and driver's license to manage Turkey. Yes, our minimum wage citizens, which make up half the working population, expect the minimum wage to be announced today to be increased by at least six months of inflation. The minimum wage remains below the poverty limit in the face of the increasing cost of life and falling acquisition. What we expect from the government can meet the basic needs of our citizens and the limit of hunger...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0013par0069	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0014par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow, July 2nd, twenty-nine years before that, the fire at Sivas Madimak is still inside us. That fire goes on and that fire won't stop until it's dealt with the past, in our minds and in our hearts. The massacre is persistently wanted to be forgotten, but we can't forget this massacre. 33 lives have been lost, and our request to become the shame museum of Madimak Hotel has still not been accepted. Twenty-nine years later, it's still burning. On July 2nd, tomorrow, to remember 33 of our lives, to cry out the right demands, and one of our party's delegations will be in front of Madim, and we'll invite the public, and I'd like to share our lives with you, with respect, gratitude, and longing. Yes, at least a thousand years of Suryani graves were destroyed in Yemisli (Enhil) neighborhood of Mardinin Midyat district, where the bones of saints were thrown out of the graves.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0015par0074	Here, pack it up, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0014par0075	Indeed, the destruction of the tombs found in the Purple Peter and the Purple Paul Chapel is a terrible thing, and we condemn this attack. If there is no respect for the beliefs, a society collapses, and it is our duty to incorporate that consciousness into society. That's why I call on everyone to sensitivity. Finally, the fiction of the Kobane case, the trial of politicians, unfortunately, continues, and the witnesses who have been heard in court continue to refute themselves, so-called evidence collected. This fictitious trial, the trial ceremony, is being imposed and actually played with the fate of the peoples. There was a new development yesterday, and I'd like to share it. There are two secret witnesses, last heard, hidden witnesses named Atlas, and Hermes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0016par0080	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0014par0081	Yesterday, fellow lawyers identified the testimony of two confidential witnesses -- Mr. President and I want to tell the valued public -- the motamot is the same; sentences, commas, all statements are the same. Which revealed that it wasn't really an expression. Today, the case continues on the Sincan campus, and new witnesses who have been heard every day say that they are not complaining, that they have not made these statements, and that they do not know anyone, that they know anyone from the public. Who wrote and edited the testimony of hidden witnesses named Atlas (Atlas) and Hermes)? All of this will be revealed, and they will surely pay for this false fiction trial, and we will not leave them alone. Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0016par0083	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Interior Commission has had a request for the Turkish Grand National Assembly to be able to work during its holiday and recession. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Friday 1/7/2022 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. In the absence of 48 hours of the Law Proposal 346 rows distributed, the agenda will be placed in the 2nd place of "The Law Offers and Other Affairs From Commissions" and the order of other jobs in this section shall be determined according to this one. July 1st, 2022 (today) until the completion of the talks of Law Proposal No. 346; On Friday (July 1st 2022) it is Saturday (July 2nd 2022) at 14. The meeting at 00, and the continuing work of Law Proposal 346 to complete talks on the agenda of "The Law Offers and Other Affairs From Commissions" and the meeting of the Law Proposal 346. According to Articles 93 of the Constitution and 5 of the Constitution, 1 October 2022 Saturday (October 2022) the 14th of Turkey's Grand National Assembly in the event of the meeting of Law Proposal 346 on 1 July 2022. Taking a vacation to meet at 00, The Law Proposal 346 was proposed to be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections in the accompanying form. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss the issues of control, and we move on to other tasks from the Commission with the agenda's Law Proposals. We are starting talks with İzmir MP Hamza Mountain and 11 MPs in the 1st place, the Law Proposal for Changes in Electronic Trade, and the Industrial Trade Energy Information and Technology Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Talks have been completed on the first chapter of Law Proposal 345, which was considered to be the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code yesterday. Now, after I've processed the motions on the substance in chapter one, if there are any, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. There are two motions on the 6th article, which I will process in order of violation of the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the third joke under the rule of Article 6 of the Law Proposal on the Order of Electronic Trade in 345 rows. The electronic trade vehicle providing services and electronic trade services, which act in violation of the first joke of Article 2 (a) and (b)bents and Article 4 of this Law, is given a period of 60 days to remove the conflict by applying an administrative fine of ten million Turkish liras, which violates the fourth joke of Article 2 (c). Twenty million Turkish liras of administrative fines will be imposed if the breach is not eliminated during this period, and 30 days will be granted to eliminate the breach. An administrative fine of 40 million Turkish liras will be imposed if the breach is not eliminated during the deadline and will be granted 15 days to eliminate the breach. The statement for this deadline states that if the dispute is not eliminated within a 15-day period, the decision by the Criminal Court of Peace to remove the contents and/or block access may be made by the Ministry's Court of Peace on its application. From this report, only jobs and procedures related to past orders are conducted. If the breach is not eliminated during the deadline, the application by the Ministry of Peace Criminal Court can be decided by the Court of Peace to remove content and/or block access to relevant Internet addresses of the electronic trade service provider and/or electronic trade service provider. This decision will be sent to the Access Providers Association. The content sent by the Union with the content and the location providers and the access providers and/or the blocking of access are immediately fulfilled by the content and location providers, as required by the decision. The Court's decision to remove the content and/or block access can be contested according to Penal Code 5271, dated 4/12/2004. Tahsin Tarhan Çetin Osman Budak Okan Gaytancıoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0017par0131	Motive...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0016par0132	No one wants to talk about the motion. The decision on the access barrier, which is sanctioned by the proposal, is envisioned by the court of justice. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the form of the 345-lined Law Proposal of 345, (6) we propose that Article 6563 be replaced in the first sentence of Article 12 of Law (o), (p) and (sh) the financial threshold of the terms of the terms of the provisions of Article 2 (e.g., etc.) in the first sentence of the article of Article 2 (e., etc.) in the form of the provider of supplying and providing electronic trade services, (6) and we propose that the offer be replaced by the first sentence of the sub-billion Turkish lira (e.g. 2) in the first sentence of article. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Erkan Akçay Ahmet Özdemir Ilyas Candy Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION No one wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0018par0147	Mr. President, the reason is...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit01spe0016par0148	I'm having him read his motive: The motion envisions sanctions on the obligations of electronic trade service providers and changes that allow the financial threshold to be updated in (6) joke. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Subsequent 6 has been accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the 7th and 13th Articles. No one wants a word on chapter two. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. There is a motion on the 9th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to the 4th, 4th, seventh, and fourth, be replaced in the 6th article of Law Proposition 345, which is added to Article 6563, and added to Article 66563. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Erkan Akçay Ahmet Özdemir Ilyas Candy Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION No one wants to talk about the motion, so I'm having them read the alibi. The amendment to the upgrade of the monetary thresholds included in the 7th joke of the substance is being made. I submit the motion to your votes: those who do not accept... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the 9th article has been accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. There is one motion on the 12th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We also propose and propose that the first joke of Law Proposal 345 (a) of Article 12 (a) be replaced in the form of the volume of transactions. Mustafa Elitaş Erkan Akçay Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Mustafa Atash Semiha Ekinci Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION No one wants a word about the motion. It is intended to clarify the writing of the application clause in order to address any hesitations that may be faced with the motion. I submit the motion to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who do not accept... those who do not... are accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronics: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'm asking lawmakers who can't get into the system to ask the technical staff for help, but I'm asking the lawmakers who can't get into the system to deliver ballots to the presidency during the time of the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of İzmir MP Hamza Mountain and 11 MPs offering the Law to change the Order of Electronic Trade: The offer has been accepted, and it's legal, so best of luck. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0016par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 111th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin talks with Ankara MP Orhan Yegin and 53 MPs' Law of State Officers and with the Plan and Budget Commission Report (2/4527) on amendments to 375 Laws and 375 Laws. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 346 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this proposal will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on all of the proposal have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On top of the whole proposal, On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Iconian MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0019par0010	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the general proposal of the Law on State Officers' Law and Amendments to Article 375 of Law. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. The law proposal includes changes in many laws related to various issues, especially regarding additional indicators of public servants and their rights. The amendments to the 65-point law proposal sum up to this: improvements are being made in the service months of staff members of the Property Management Service class. In Articles 5434 of the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Chest Law, the rule of the multitask and the 70th Amendment, additional indicators on the level of compensation to reflect for the pension of those who are subject to the Law are being reorganised. The President is authorized to increase the compensation rates separately or together by up to threefold and change additional indicator groups. The Law of State Officers, Judges and Prosecutors' Law, Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act, Army Aid Foundation Law, Specialist Staffing Law, Special Police Law, Higher Education Staff Act, Law on the Bank of Provinces, and additional indicators of public officials involved in Article 375. According to this, the additional indicators of public officials have been increased by 600 points in general from January 15, 2023. The additional indicator is very important for public employees. The additional indicator, on the one hand, is an element of officer's salary, while on the other hand, directly affecting pensions and pensions. 3600 additional indicators are one of the first critical thresholds. The 3600 additional indicators are particularly reflected in the pension bonus and the significant amount for a pension. As the current additional indicators are increased by 600 points, some public officials who have been waiting for years will receive 3,600 additional indicators. In addition to our teachers who have recently earned 3600 additional indicators as a result of our recent arrangement, as well as public defenders, civil servants, expert officials, expert guards, graduates of healthcare, graduates of higher education, graduates of higher education in the class of religious services, assistant assistant to the district, assistant managers, bookkeeping experts, financial services experts, tax intelligence specialists, interior ministry planning experts, il Migration specialists, product inspectors, customs and trade inspectors, at least three years of higher education, assistant managers in the class of religious services, assistant managers of the district, assistant manager of the university, chief of the chief of the university, chief of the chief of staff of the university, professors of staff of the university, professors of staff of the United Affairs, professors of the United States, professors of the United States and professors of the United States of the United States, professors of the United States of the United States of the United States, professors of the United States of the United States, professors of the United States of the United States of the United States and the United States of the United States of the United States and the United States of the United States of the United States, the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States, the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States, the United States, the United of the United States, the United States of the United States, the United of the United States, the United States, the United States and the United States of the United States of the United States, the United States of the United States and the United States, the United States, the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United of the United of the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United of the United of the United of the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United of the United of the United States, the United of the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the In the prime minister's and ministry's departments, the title is 5. The director and a number of executive staff who have been tasted one by one under the heading of the Supreme Teaching Institutions and the Companies of the Judiciary Institutions. The head of the department, which is listed under the heading of the Local Administrations and is listed under the heading of the Institutions concerned, is a member of the municipality. Legal adviser, deputy mayor, Bosporus zoning director, county disaster and emergency manager, director of civil defence search and rescue unit and the head of the science and study board will be eligible for 3600 additional indicators from January 15, 2023. The increase in additional indicators will, of course, be reflected in the salaries of former retired public servants. In addition to the additional indicator arrangement, the commitments made by the National Movement Party have been fulfilled, with many public employees, especially public defenders, teachers, police, experts, police officers, specialists, guards, health care class workers, income experts, bookkeeping experts, branch managers and managers, receiving 3,600 additional indicators that many public employees have hoped for. The proposal envisions additional payments of £1,200 per month, including staff members of the National Intelligence Service and Security Services class and Turkish Armed Forces, the General Command of the Gendarme and Coast Guard Command, petty officer, expert police officers, and experts, additional indicators on the basis of the staff title of the station and neighborhood watchmen, which are below 3600 and do not deserve to be compensated by the authorities, along with their monthly salaries. As the National Movement Party, we have always had our support for improving the rights and working conditions for our security forces and our national intelligence members, who are in the defence of the nation and the nation, who are committed to a decisive and fearless fight against terrorism. They are the heroes of the Turkish nation who say, "If we die, heaven is ours. If we stay, it is ours." With the proposal of the law, we feel that additional indicators for the safety services class are not sufficient, that their positions and duties are not satisfied. It would be appropriate to review the current arrangement to improve additional indicators of our security forces, especially our municipal police chiefs. Precious lawmakers are essential to determining additional indicators that concern millions of public officials and pensioners closely by considering the hierarchy, status, duty, authority and responsibilities, service classes, student status and degrees. However, because there is status and employment turmoil in the staff regime and there is a large number of elements in the salary and pension account, each arrangement provides the need for staff and titles, while some may be victims. It would be appropriate to assess the situation of other public employees, including public chefs, programmers and analysts, high-school graduates, execution officers, police officers, customs guards, and other public employees, as well as increased compensation rates for pensions. In addition, an additional indicator of the municipal deputy mayors in the capital city, central, district mayors needs to be improved in order to compensate for the victims of university heads and assistant secretary general. It would be appropriate for some career professions to be removed from central-level division, which has been implemented by KHK No. 666, and to also benefit from additional indicators of legislators and stenographers in the Turkish National Assembly before the 666. In this regard, all matters detected during this period will be possible to be met with arrangements, considering that the additional indicator arrangement will take effect on January 15, 2023. In addition, changes that are deemed appropriate to the President will always be possible. The proposal organises issues related to financial provisions for senior public executives and other public executives who will benefit from the positions or positions they will be assigned to when they are relieved of duty or when their duties are completed. In addition, an arrangement is being made to provide trained experts to boost institutional capacity for the chairmanship of the Council of Research on Financial Crimes and the President of Strategy and Budget. In our country, with the approval of our nation, the presidential government system has been adopted and the most important management reform in our republic's history. The quality of the management system is as important as the quality of manpower that will operate the system. The need remains to establish a public personnel system that offers quality service to society, which is highly capable of adapting to changing conditions, which will provide public pay justice, to address status and employment confusion, to implement a staff regime that will be objective, on the basis of progress and increase. As highlighted in the 11th Development Plan, a staff regime should be built, with a thorough approach of driver's license and integrity, making it possible to effectively and efficiently exploit all the qualified human power of our country. The implementation of public contractual, temporary, proxy, honorary and paid personnel must be reviewed and limited to exceptional circumstances. Actual government services must be staffed. The class of auxiliary services must be removed and the staff in this class must be taken into general management and technical services classes at its institutions. As the National Movement Party, our proposals for the law on these matters are on the relevant commissions. Our Minister of Labour and Social Security has already announced that the first case they will discuss after 3600 additional indicators is a contracted public employee. The results of these vital works are expected with hope. Families are torn apart due to the lack of the right of contractual personnel to relocate by co-existence. One of the main tasks of the government is the protection of the family union. The practice of contract personnel in public is not homogeneous, but separate within itself. With an application originally 4+1, then updated as 3+1, those employed as contract staff will become members at the end of three years, while 4/B are under contract indefinitely and cannot become a member of the staff. Contracted personnel waiting to be recruited in public administrations expect at least the 3+1 system to be generalised. The minimum wage rating Commission is working on a minimum wage increase. The minimum fee set by the Minimum Price Tespit Commission has been published in today's Official Gazette, which regulates the introduction of the regulation fee from the date it was issued unless another date was specified. When the work is done, hopefully some good news will be heard. Inflation difference from pensioners and public employees, which will be finalised by the release of the inflation rate in June, will be implemented today. According to this, pensioners and public employees are expected to increase their monthly rate by about 40 per cent. The offer aims to increase the minimum monthly payment to our pensioners, pensioners, and rights holders, to $3,500 per month, which is estimated at $2,500 per file. Thus, the lowest pension is increased by $1,000. Twenty-five years of service and nine thousand bonus days, and our shopkeeper and farmer ask that no insurance premiums be taken from them until their pension is paid. It is also important to consider the situation and to address the inequality between pensions. Another issue that we, the National Movement Party, have constantly brought up is the issues of our mayor's rights. In particular, there are different applications for office, representation and duty compensations paid to our retired mayors. Many of our past mayors can't benefit from these compensations because they don't have a pension box. The arrangement with this law proposal allows all mayors who come with the election to benefit from the mayor's office, representation and duty compensation. Dear lawmakers, other regulations in the law proposal sum up the following issues: the adoption of bail bonds in the insurance sector can be adopted as collateral for the collection of amme recipients. The amount of funds to be transferred to loan guarantee institutions is increased from $50 billion to $100 billion. It thus opens the way for more loans to be used by providing bail support through a credit guarantee fund. This practice, which is important for the support and access to financing of the KOBI, will ensure that selectiveness and strict control will reach its goal. It is important to increase the transfer of information and technology between universities, research infrastructures and private sectors, and to increase RD and innovation outputs with the quality of research centres with the capacity of manpower. To this end, the introduction of qualified researchers to universities is organised, the implementation of post-doc research employment. In accordance with Article 2547, Ph.D., Ph.D. of Law No. 2547 is granted an opportunity to compensate for the lack of doctorates who have not been assigned to a university due to scientific work or lack of broadcasting due to the training and upgrade criteria provided by universities. Students who conduct intensive scientific research and technical activities in research infrastructures outside higher education institutions, institutes and R&D centres are also intended to make scientific research, broadcasting and project savings visible, associated with universities. The academics are also allowed to be assigned to research universities or regional development-oriented universities, which have been established by the NGO as part of their residency. Students who have been suspended while studying at higher education institutions and who have not been registered for various reasons are granted the right to attend higher education without a deadline for the past. For those who have graduated before 31/3/2024 to take the test for the nomination of a judge or the assistant judge or prosecutor's office or to start a notary training, it is decided that those who have passed the vertical transition exam and have completed their studies in addition will not be required to succeed in the Law Exam or the pre-Idamental Exam. The aim is to allow technical assessment of preliminary licensing applications based on these resources to ensure the efficient and efficient use of biomass and geothermal resources and prevent forward investments; to contribute commercially and encourage the installation of electrical energy storage facilities. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism is able to use return capital to rent services for services in the field when necessary. As a result of the cash capital increase, the right to tax reduction is being made to be used for five account periods. The dealers are allowed to file a lawsuit in 30 days instead of fifteen days, in case of a disaster or theft, such as a fire, flood, or a shakedown. Construction licenses have been issued until July 1, 2022, and are intended to reduce the use of illegals by means of temporary electricity and/or water subscriptions to structures -- which are not licensed to use or not allowed to use. It is required to be present at open execution institutions and to be willing to work at night in the workplaces of public institutions and institutions to work by these institutions and institutions, and to be paid daily to these prisoners, and to implement the bell, which is the 5th article of Law number 5510. In spite of the ads, the conditions for notarisation between the lower classes are set for the non-assignable notary. I wish that the bill that we support as the National Party of Action would bring blessings to our country and our nation. Next weekend, we'll get to know each other about Eid's Day. I pray to God that you, our beloved nation, and the Turkish-Islam world, are truly celebrating the blessed Eid of Sacrifice, the acceptance of our sacrifice.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0020par0035	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan has been taken into custody. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0021par0038	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. Dear friends, we have reached the end of another legislature, which is our fourth year. For four years, dear friends have not reformed or reformed, this Parliament has not. Dear friends, it's the job of the nation's representatives to solve the nation's problems. But, dear friends, the AKP-MHP government, unfortunately, is always turning around, like an elephant in an emporium, turning around. Every time he comes back, he breaks, he spills, unfortunately, dear friends. What do we say? Come, make structural measures. But it's always bags, always bags. And this bag of legislation, my dear friends, and the last bag of legislation, unfortunately, is not a living bag, but an election bag, friends, an election bag. That's why it involves palliative measures. The fundamental problems of society are not here, and those who can't get along have no problems, no worries of the hungry, no worries of the exposed. Dear citizens, your troubles are not here. What is it, dear friends? Unfortunately, there are palliative steps. For example, is there anyone who's old enough to retire? No, dear retirement seniors. Is there an arrangement to solve the problems of millions of young people in debt to the Credit House? No. Does this bag solve the problems of unsubstantiated teachers? Unfortunately, there's nothing in this bag that'll solve your problems. The minimum wage is being discussed in the palace today. Is this on the agenda of the People's Assembly? I'm afraid not. According to reports from the palace, the minimum wage will be between 5,000 liras and 6,000 liras. In this inflationist environment, they will present such a number as good news to our citizens. Yes, and do you remember when the President gave us good news for Christmas? For the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, a President has been released and has declared a minimum wage at the ceremony. Wow, what is it? We raised it from $2,825 to $4,250. He offered it as good news. And I said, "This good news will go before it's even in the employee's pocket." As a matter of fact, it did. As of January 1st, they began to rain a raise -- natural gas, electricity, needle to thread -- when the worker received $4,250 on 1 February, he looked at it, and it was worth less than $2,250 a month ago -- money was gone, and the inflation monster ate it, and finished it. Now, Mr. President, we're not going to crush inflation. For six months, our compatriot has been crushed by inflation. They're going to do it now, 20 to 30 percent, and they're not going to crush our citizens with inflation. What is it? They're going to say we raised the inflation rate, which is obvious. Inflation of TÜİK (TÜİK) is 73 per cent, inflation is 173 per cent, or even 200 per cent, they're giving rise according to TÜİK (TÜİK), they're not going to crush our citizens with inflation. Look, we, the HDP, recommend minimum wage be clear $10,000. Now you're going to say, "There are bosses here; we can't pay, we're going down, we're going down." What if the bosses have been profiting for months, so why don't they share their profits with the worker a little bit? And I'll tell you this: $10,000 today, Mr. Elitaş, money today; inflation in this inflationist environment is going to increase, you're going to continue to expand money; in a month, it's not going to be money. Ten thousand liras will melt in a month or two, just like the Christmas raise melts in a month, but our citizens will breathe for a month or two if they don't have one. Dear friends, there's no minimum wage, but there are pensions in this bag, dear pensioners, over 13 million of our citizens; look what the AKP and the MHP are doing to you. The minimum pension was $2,500, right? 2,500 liras, it's a shame; in these conditions, 2,500 liras; you've been crushed for months, waiting for bread lines. I apologize to you as a representative of this country, and we are in opposition, but I apologize, for not being able to change this situation, but these unconscionables have sentenced you to $2,500, waiting in the bread line. You know what they suggested? The bag's in the law. Sir, we've raised your minimum pension by 20 percent -- well, we've raised it to 3,000 liras. If a pensioner takes his children and grandchildren, if he goes to a restaurant -- not in the middle, not in a fancy restaurant -- let me feed you at the poor restaurant. If he says, "Let me give you a meal at the festival." If he says, he's a hostage, he's a hostage; he's a hostage, he's a hostage, he can't pay for a meal, he's a hostage. Now, you don't even get a meal for a meal, these unconscionables. We raised our objections in the Plan and Budget Commission, we raised our objections. We said, "That's unconscionable." Do you know what they did? They gave me another $500, $3,500, minimum pension. For those of you who claim this $3,500, I invite you to live on $3,500 a month. Come on, let's try it together, let's make a living of $3,500. I'm inviting everyone who's ever heard of it. That's what it's all about with a citizen. What did we offer? It's not enough, but let's say it's $66,000. We've submitted the minimum pension to the Plan Budget Commission for this. We said, let our pension take a breath of at least 6,000. We said, AKP and MHP rejected our offer of 6,000 lira. Now we're going to take down the same motion in the General Assembly, and we're going to say the minimum pension is 6,000 lira. Do you know what Mr. Nebati or Mr. Recep will say? He'll say, "Where's the source?" He'll say, "Where's the source?" Well, dear friends, let's take a look at these budget pens: palaces, wars, allies, interest dealers, interest-flowing resources, not all of them, not all of them, but we could easily make the lowest pensioner's six grand. But we'll see if these unconscionables do it, maybe they'll feel guilty and do it. If they don't, the pensioners will be on your ass all summer long. Dear friends, 3600 additional indicators are in this bag. Well, you know our citizens have been demanding 3600 for years. The AKP had promised in 2018, he broke his promise, the election came, we're on our way to the election. Now, he says I keep that promise. So? I'm taking the law out now, but I'll do it in January, he says. Why do you leave it on January once? Nebati Bey says, "Ya, my brother, my budget is overpaid." They say, "No, but we'll leave it on January." Second of all, my friends, they didn't leave ashes in the barbecue because of 3600, so I said, "What is this 3600?" The next thing I know, they're giving birth to a mouse and a mouse in a 3600 additional indicator. Yeah, he thinks public laborers are getting a lot of good news with 3,600. Dear friends, one time, half the public workers don't benefit from the 3600 additional indicators after 2008. I'll tell you how the rest of us benefit: an officer's pension is only going up $118, and an officer's salary is going up $50, 100 lira, or falling, friends! There's a down payment, too. Look, public workers will face a decline in salaries. Oh, what good news! You're lowering your salary, you're lowering public pensioners and public workers. Friends, I'll tell you the raise in pensions: 118 lira raise for a chef, 118 lira raise for an officer, sir, 118 lira raise for the head of an apartment, 118 lira raise for the engineer.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0022par0048	It'll be 40 percent.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0021par0049	Dear friends, these are low-income public workers. Look, that's the rise in their current pension. Do you know that hundreds of thousands of public workers were waiting for this 3600 indicator to retire? Let me tell you the number of good news, my friends: When an officer retires on pensions, his pension will increase to $4,000, and good news! Is this your good news? The pension will go from 17,000 liras to 201,000 liras. Have fear of God. When our elders retired, they'd get one apartment with a pension, zero apartments. You can't take the balcony of a flat today, let alone a flat with 201,000 lira! Is that your good news? Dear friends, and this is the most important thing: there is no justice here. Several officers were left under 3,600. You know what we proposed? For all public workers, let the indicator be 3600, so that no public workers be left below 3,600. Because when he's up to 3,600, he can breathe a little bit. But, my fellow laborers, small-time public workers, high-end public officials, governors, skims... in this bag, they've got 5,000 liras, 10,000 liras to pay. That's a shame! A worker's $50.100 salary either goes up or goes down, special favor for the governor, the creamer. That's not fair. That's not fair. In that respect, I'm afraid this arrangement does not justice, my dear friends. In that sense, all we have to do is reform a public staff and bring justice to the public. No public worker's salary should be below the poverty line, dear friends. The poverty limit of $20,818 should not be below $20,818, and no public worker's salary should be below the poverty limit. Dear friends, there's a student pardon in this bag. Election's coming up, student amnesty's coming up. And do you know how they get the student pardon? You know, these are the state of security, dear friends, let's not call them the security government, let's not call them the government. Look, education is a right, you know? According to the Constitution, education is also a right, just as health is a right. So when you give health care to a citizen, you're a prisoner. You can't discriminate because you're not. Education is also a right. Even if you're a prisoner in prison, you can study, take the university exam. But you know what the law says? Sir, if you're a member of the organization appointed by the National Security Council, if you have a member, is it enough, is it not enough -- if you have a contact -- if someone calls you a phone, you can't take advantage of this teaching pardon. He says they're unconscionable. You have no conscience, and you are acting against the Constitution. We don't accept it, and in response, dear friends, we call upon none of you to accept it. Education is a right, don't deny it. Dear friends, another matter is the zoning pardon. You know, there was a zoning pardon on the way to the 2018 election, and now there's a zoning pardon. Friends, the zoning pardon is this: If your structure is unlicensed, or you have not registered, or you do not have a residence, the law says that I will bind electricity and water to you from now on. You know, before that, either electricity, water, or construction water, power was connected to the construction site, and they were highly tariffed, and our citizens were facing even higher bills when they were already crushed under high bills. Now, electricity and water will be connected, connected as a circle, and connected at a low rate. We support this part of it, but why did the House pass this law? He took it out to deter, didn't he? So he took it out to deter illegal construction. You're now bringing amnesty to illegal structures. Okay, let me ask you this. Istanbul is waiting for an earthquake, sir, Van, Diyarbakır, many of our cities are waiting for an earthquake, Malatya, Elazığ. Millions of homes are rotten around here. You've given me a zoning pardon. Is that enough? It's not enough. Now you're bringing in water and electrical pardons, another zoning pardon. You're telling these citizens to go on living in taboo houses. Has anyone in these houses ever considered whether or not there will be earthquake assurances, any guarantees of that, any precautionary action? There's no need. What? If there's a choice, I'll take my citizens' vote in the election, but it's the plague, my friends. This arrangement... so electricity and water are right, of course it should be, but it's also a right for our citizens to live in earthquake-resistant homes. Housing is a right, and we need to consider measures. Dear friends, the Board of Higher Education, you know, was a custody board, and the AKP was supposed to be against the NGO. When I went to NGOs, many of my friends from the Happiness Party used to go to those protests with me, we'd eat baton together, we'd say no to NGO, why? Because the headdress had also brought custody, and the NGO was the product of the coup, which limited the freedoms. In order to become a free university, we did actions against the NGO, we did things together, but when the AKP took over the power, it took custody, and now there are regulations for the YOK. You know what he says? Sir, there's an arrangement with the investigators, but I'll tell you what's most interesting. If we get this law out, there'll be investigators from abroad, and they'll be internationally recognised. Oh, dear friends, don't be ridiculous. Many of our research officers are leaving the country, signing a peace declaration, and thousands of our citizens are currently doing research at universities abroad. How are you going to recruit a research officer in a country where you've finished freedoms? And there's something more tragic about it. They're going to pay these researchers $8,9,000, so they're going to pay $400,500. Investigators at internationally-recognised universities would be here for $400,500, which is tragic, and they're falling apart wherever you hold them, dear friends. Dear friends, at the last minute, Mr. Elitaş brought another item to the Plan Budget Commission at night, he said: "Turkey Auto Initiative Group is making cars." Isn't that right? TOGG, famous. Recep Tayyip Erdogan will present this before the election, won't he? He'll take it off, look, I've got it off, he'll say. They've done a check, and the TOGG is worth over $1 million. For God's sake! Now, if we go up to $1 million, we sell it. If we say, "You'll get it, but your followers will get it; the people won't have cars." So, what do we do? Let's lower the tax. They say it reduces the OTV to 10 percent in an instant. What's going to happen? The TOGG will go down to maybe 800,000 liras, maybe 900,000 liras. How many citizens can buy an 800,000-dollar car, and one percent of the population of Turkey, right? The rest of them look at luxury cars on the road now. If a government builds a car, it builds a public car, it builds a public car, it builds a public car, it builds a public car for the poorest. They love the rich, they built the richest car, and now their followers will take it. Now they're trying to lower the price a little; it's the market for shame, but there's going to be consequences. You know what? People's cars are being built in Europe, Europe's electric car technology is being built much further, so they're making cars that are much cheaper; when you drop the OTV at 10 per cent, they're going to come from Europe cheap, public cars, they're going to be infested with foreign cars, because we're going to have BMWssi, busu, Audi, Vkswageni, they're all going to stop building internally, gas, diesel cars in 2025. That's where we get our shoes. What's it gonna be? The market will be filled with foreign cars. But what? Recep Tayyip Erdogan will launch TOGG; such an arrangement is brought to the launch to explain the price of 800-900,000 instead of 1.5 million. I'd like you to call it a no, dear friends. I'll tell you one last thing. You know we're on the gray list in money laundering countries, right? We're on the gray list. So we're on the money laundering list, guys. Now, the finance bureaucracy is making a terrible effort to get off this list, isn't it? Look, the stuff's been brought in, we're assigning staffs to get off this list, we're making arrangements, we're looking into this bag. Okay, guys, I care about this effort, but I'm going to give you an example. Now, in this article, we make this arrangement to prevent corruption and corruption, and we cast these positions. Now, if you like God, last year, you know, a criminal organization leader came out and said, "Sorry, not before a criminal organization leader said, there was a claim that there was a politician who had taken $10,000 first; a politician under AKP's leadership, a politician who claimed to have taken $10,000 from the criminal ringleader. The leader of the criminal organization said, "What's with the suitcase? What's with the suitcase? $500,000, $1 million, whatever it was, I put money in it. He said. Now, to this end, Süleyman Soylu, who is still Minister of the Interior, said, "I will explain this." A year and a half ago. Where? He said, "I'll explain to the prosecutor." It's been a year and a half, dear friends, Süleyman has not been to the D.A.'s office, and there's been another video recently, claiming to be the AKP member of MKYK, his executive, Metin Ashkunk, from day one. Dear friends, you cannot remove Turkey from the gray list as long as you continue to hold a person who is alleged to have received dollars from the head of the criminal organization in your Central Executive Board. Do not delay the people's Parliament with these legal regulations, but first see the implementation. Let Süleyman Soylu go, and no one give this person to the prosecution; let him go, and let him answer in judgment; then come, and say: 'We will remove Turkey from the gray list. Otherwise don't bother with the nation. And finally, my dear Muslim brothers, my Muslim citizens, I complete my vows by congratulating you on your sacrificial feast. Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0023par0061	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0024par0064	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. There are 7-8 people in the Justice and Development Party Group; good, not bad; 8 people listen. My dear friends, this amendment to the Law of State Officers and the Amendment to Law 375 shall be made to 35 laws and 1 laws. Analyst, your officers are trying to regulate public staff pensions, which is the argument, which has been passed on as 3600 additional indicators, but there are also very important regulations and materials. My dear friends, when we say "police officers," we only mean the officers, in which there's a cure for the pension of the officers, and I'll tell you what that means later -- it's being edited, otherwise it's not about the SGC, BUG-KUR. Again, in this law, we're going to talk about minimum pensions, minimum pensions, and there's a sentence on that, and we're going to talk about it here. We know that there are serious problems in Turkey with this public staff regime and the pension system, and these problems have been going on for years. On the one hand, the SGK, the pension institution, the Social Security institution is going bankrupt, the black hole, what's this, it's said, it's unsustainable. On the other hand, it's said that the authorities can't get by, their pension is getting smaller and smaller. In this retirement system, the public staff regime has been changed over and over again, and every change has made things worse; it's complicated, complicated -- if it wasn't a mistake in design, there's a famous saying -- Arab hair -- which is not used as a separatist expression -- we can't get out of it. My dear friends, the premiums and pensions invested in a pension system -- these are the things that complement each other -- people want to get paid for what they invested in, but they want to get paid for it that day. There is no such thing in Turkey. Even though the state is investing money in pensioners for the officer he employs, there is a situation against the premiums, among those who were finally invested and those who were given. So the government is finally in debt to the officer they've been working for so many years, and yet the SAGK system is sinking, what is this, what is this, what is this, my dear friends? How does that work? This is a problem from our system. And now we're making a change in this -- we're going to discuss this in a moment -- and this system doesn't provide any significant solutions to eliminate these problems, dear friends. You'll see, after a little while, in this inflationist environment, we'll start to say, "What are we going to do? What are we going to do? What are we going to do? What are we going to do? What are we going to do? What are we going to do? My dear friends, in this poor system, in the regime, in the public staff regime, aside from the lack of months, for pensioners and employees, there's a huge imbalance between them, dear friends, there's a huge difference. On the one hand, there are actual wages on the edge of starvation, and on the other hand, there were talks about a person who received several salaries, 100,000s, 200,000s, even $380,000 at a time; there is such a situation. There's nothing in this proposal of the law that can make it go away, dear friends. It's such a strange system that the paramedics -- supposedly we've made a improvement of the last medics -- doctors say I can't get by, I'm working on the hunger line. Next thing you know, in the same system, the health manager gets a 40 grand salary, Dr. 78,000 lira, which is not acceptable, and there's nothing to fix, my dear friends. And there's something else, and now they say, "We give 600 points to everyone. There is no such thing. Do you know why you give 600 points to everyone, brother? It's for this bloody hierarchy because if the president promised and the opposition parties kept pushing it, but we didn't push it that way, we're going to do it with a different system. I'll give 3600 additional indicators to the four classes promised by the president. They looked at it, and they started taking as much as the police officer's chief of police, and they gave 600 points to everyone in case it had to be Hierarchy. Do you know how these 600 points reflect on everyone, my dear friends? The following is, let's say it reflects 112 lira as a price on a servant's pension, but to the one above, because the additional indicator will go up to 3,600, it's a limit at 3,600, which reflects about 1,500 liras. Look, there's a lot of imbalances, and with the changes we've made, there's no improvement in these imbalances. Oh, I'll tell you right away, one way or another, we support this arrangement, but we say it's incomplete, but we say it's wrong. We can't fix this public staff regime, we can't fix the pension system, we can't make a serious reform, my dear friends. Now, one of the important things here, my dear friends, is the burden that comes after this arrangement. So how will the burden be solved to the public, to the SGK? We will solve it this way. There are no serious proposals about this. I mean, where's the source, where's the source, where's the source? They always say: "Where is the source, where is the source? " The source, the mint, the source, the central bank printers, the money will be printed; there is nothing else to be done; money is being printed regularly recently. So it's not a raise, my dear friends, it'll come from one side, it'll go from the other, that's what's done. This requires serious public personnel and pension reform. You're going to simplify this, a thousand indicators, what it means, what it means, things that are never clear. You're going to make it very simple, you're going to maintain the hierarchy, but you're going to keep the hierarchy in order. Look, fellas, when you're working on salaries called the "hierarchy," you have to take into account the minimum person's salary; what does the bottom man get? Because the bottom man's money is about hunger, it's about livelihood, it's about the milk of his child, it's about his bread, dear friends. We're poor, we're poor, you've got five cars, you've got one left, but you've got five left, two gone, so the bottom one needs to be looked at, and this fucking hierarchy needs to look at the bottom one. Guys, this offer is going to be covered by inflation tax, but not only that, there's going to be an increase in bonuses, and I'll tell you where it's coming. In Article 2 of Article 2 of the article 2 of the article, the following and so much of the additional indicators are subject to pension and institutional compensation, and the President is authorized to increase the subject, reduce it, triple it. There are two serious problems here; one of the problems seems to be that the raises that come to pensioners will be raised by raising the employee's bonuses, and that's one problem that will be met. The second problem is that the Article 128 of the Constitution, my dear friends, says in Article 128, that all appointments, assignments, duties, rights, obligations, monthly and other equity matters are regulated by law concerning civil servants and other public servants and public institutional institutions and their senior members. You can't give the President such authority here, you can't feed him with authority, you've given him all the authority, and you've given him authority here. Why are they giving us the authority? If they don't vote in a few months, you'll see they'll raise the premiums, my dear friends. Look, one of the things to say about this law is that it reflects on the way you look at the world, the way you look at it, the way you look at running the state, the security policy. Look, I'm not criticizing the military, the police, the special sergeant, the ere raises, I'm criticizing the others, my dear friends. You're saying that if the cops aren't a college graduate, it's not going to be $1,200 -- and it's not going to be $1,200 -- and it's not going to be a year from now -- why didn't you put the coefficient on it, and that's why we're giving it away, and that's what they've brought in, and we've all objected, this time to the soldiers and the MPs and the members of the MIT, so why can't we get $3600? Because you're not a college graduate. There's one thing, my friends, the 1st article, the governors are getting big raises. Big things are being brought to the deputy governors, the senior officers. Why are they like this? Why not civilians, my dear friends? Why aren't there people working in the population? For example, you're very interested in giving 9000 to the President of the Religious Affairs, why not give it to the imams who didn't graduate from college? Why are you giving it to the soldiers? Because that's the way your head is. So you're building a state of emergency in this country, and you're doing things in parallel with it, my dear friends. Something else was brought in at the last moment, something was brought in about the deputy ministers. I mean, even if he did it for a year, two years, even if he didn't come from a civil service, he's gonna get all the other rights he's got. So he was a civil servant for 35 years, he's been in every office, and he's gonna take it all. Who are these deputy ministers, my dear friends? Political officer, all of this. In fact, how many years has he been a deputy minister, and how many people have retired, and you make such an arrangement? It's probably done by the person, and I even got a name, but, of course, we're not talking about the name. Dear friends, good news, do you know who the number one public official is from now on? The Undersecretary of the Prime Minister is gone, of course, he'll be in the parliamentary system when we get there. He's not the President of Presidential Affairs, he's the President of Religious Affairs. Yes, the Chief of the Religious Affairs and Chief of Staff -- two officers -- have 9000 additional indicators, and the President of Religious Affairs has gone up there, dear friends. Yeah, well, give it to the President of Religious Affairs, I mean, give it to him, take it out on the minors with a sword and all that? Is it better to be religious in this land? Is there more right, law, justice? Is there more to be seen in the face of theft, wickedness, and evil? I'm just passing through. There's one good, beautiful thing you've arranged for lawyers. The public can't find lawyers, my dear friends can't really find them; there's no lawyers in the public, there's very little money being paid. Now, they've been given 3600 and higher indicators, and more, because the public is losing all cases. When I say public, we friends, our money goes away, so we lose, our taxes go away. So, at least they'll get paid the same year as the judges, the prosecutors, so they can come and work in public, my dear friends. We talked about the deputy ministers, and now, my dear friends, I'm on my way to the lowest pension. The lowest pension was 1,500, you made 2,500, you came this time for 3,000, you made 3,500 when the objections rose. My dear friends, in this country, Turkish-BiH has only announced in the past few months, the hunger limit is $6,300. What's a hunger limit, guys? If it's not $6,300, it means he can't buy bread. Mr. President would do a bagel-tea account like this, and he can't even close it with a bagel-tchaser for $3,500. How many are there? Here, we don't know for sure, but I think more than 1,600-1 million, I think about 3 million, there are even widows and orphans who get pensions from the lowest border; they get a lot lower; you give $3,500, they split in half, they split in three, they get $1,000, 1,500. How can you do such a thing? At least $3,500. And now you're going to brag, and you know what he's saying, our friend who brought in the bill is in the Plan and Budget Commission? Look, we've increased 66%, we've done 100 percent, and now we've done 125 percent. Have fear of God. We have a motion, my dear friends, that should be minimum wage, your minimum pension. Friends, there are other items besides your salary. For example, there's one item, one very important thing, we're discussing SOC, aren't we, public-private cooperation? The National Lottery Administration was sold, friends, and after it was sold, the added value tax was removed. The religious ones didn't want to deal with the lottery business, they sold it, but they removed the VAT. Who did they sell it to? They sold it to the Cysal Luck Games in partnership with a lyrical plus Italian company. Do you guys know how he got the bid? When you're being tendered, it's said that there are nine billion returns this year, 20 percent of that next year plus inflation, and the year after that, plus inflation will go in the same way. But they've put a clause in there. We can't give more than 15 per cent if inflation exceeds 15 per cent. You know what, guys? The proceeds have fallen. Where do we learn that? We don't have transparency, so we're getting it from the records and reports of Sisal, which are quotas for the Italian Milan stock exchange. It says: "We have not fulfilled our commitment and the state of the Republic of Turkey - the Fund of Being - has not taken our thing." Why? It didn't happen for a reason. He's happy, we didn't get the money they promised Sisal and Demirören for a reason. We didn't get it, just as we postponed the rent of Istanbul Airlines, 1 billion, 50m euros, and deleted it. Why? The Agriculture Bank also depends on the Entity Fund, but does it erase the farmer's loan for a reason, erase its interest? It doesn't. So, the People's Bank, it's also owned by the Entity Fund; does the People's Bank delete it? Is he taking away the tradesman's debt, his credit, my dear brothers? It doesn't. This is all happening, and you're pointing your finger at it, and you're taking it down, guys. There's no motive for citizens, but there's for Demirören, there's for Sisal, there's for games of chance, there's for everything. Gambling is forbidden, isn't it? It hasn't changed, has it, Koran? But you keep moving. You don't deny it, you're guilty of moving it. If you'd denied it, you'd be... Highways, public-special highways... you know the highways, my dear friends. If there was a problem by mistake, they'd fold it up to four-to-one, then ten-to-one fines, and now they'd reduce four-to-one. And they're legitimizing it, my dear friends, and they're removing the terms of the notification, before you're notified, so that you don't get served. Yeah, what does that mean, guys? So, here's what we'll do without spending a penny. No, we'll pay for all this money, even our grandchildren, our children. And what we pay for, we spend the money of the world, and it's not enough, and we're forced into it. All the maps are always pushing us towards the money roads, and when there's a punishment there, they fold it up. Who's taking all this money? The one who runs the highway. How's that? What kind of ticket does the guy who runs the highway get? Is that the government, guys? And you, your friends -- I'm telling the Justice and Development Party and the mp -- you make laws in the name of those who run the highway, and you make laws in the name of the elders, but, friends, how do people make mistakes that big, how do they do crimes? I mean, I don't get it. How do you make sacrifices with such big nails for someone else? Yeah, well, you're still giving them what you're giving them. You're robbing people. What kind of government are you? What we call the state is a friend; it raises justice, justice, and, most importantly, the state protects the weak. You've become the state of the fittest. Yes, the state has shifted to the strong all the time, and so on, but no other delegation has come here, my dear friends, who are as strong as you are, who crush the weak and say, "There is no religion for you." [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the process is ending. At the end of this bill, there are a few articles, and you're going to laugh. This clause -- I'm going to give you good news -- is a provision that shows that the Justice and Development Party and the MHP partnership -- the Cumhur Alliance are leaving, dear friends. So it's an escape agent. Mr. Kilicdaroglu is always threatening bureaucrats with this clause. No one's promising a bureaucrat who's not committing a crime that we won't interfere with. They're bringing in special security to protect these bureaucrats. He's been through the Plan and Budget Commission again, and they've eliminated responsibility for TMSF trustees. Here are some of the names of lawmakers who have been mentioned in the vicinity of these executives in the AKP.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0025par0085	They're about to bring immunity.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0024par0086	Yeah, they brought immunity. Now they're bringing them to these bureaucrats, you know, where they're going to settle down when they're relieved. They're bringing something interesting for the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Secretary-General, assistants and presidents. They put special staff on these. Let's say the Secretary General is relieved of duty, they're putting in special staff: Chief of Staff. It's not enough, they're doing something else. If he wants to retire... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0026par0090	We don't promise, we don't promise.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0024par0091	If he wants to retire -- for the record -- they get 50 percent more pensions, they get 50 percent more pensions, friends.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0026par0092	Mr. İsmail Tatüoğlu will now speak on behalf of the PTA Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0027par0095	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Gazi Party Group on behalf of the Honourable MPs of our Veteran Assembly, the Act of State Officers, and the Order of the Code 3375, and the Proposal of the Law. I salute the General Assembly. At the beginning of my words, I wish God's mercy to Serkan Stonesman, who died in Operation Claw-lock territory, and my condolences to our beloved nation. Honourable lawmakers are, of course, the most efficient institution in democracy, and the quality of lawmaking and lawmaking is a fundamental process that demonstrates the effectiveness of legislation. In this context, the 66-point bag that we're dealing with today is the law, and this bag of laws that we've been living in, especially in the last four years, shows how we've been in a low profile on legislation, and how we've been avoiding solving society's problems. Again, as we come to the end of the year of life, we face a bag of laws that are not even close to each other, not even remotely interested in each other. Another situation is that the duration of their actual discussion is not usual. There is a law that is forced to discuss and discuss very broad issues in very short periods of time. We're talking about financial tax legislation, highway crossings from academy to academy, civil aviation headquarters from the National Lottery Administration to the Pharmaceuticals, notarized issues; some of which are technical, some of which are extensive changes in related areas. This suggests that we are facing an approach that exceeds the law of the bag, which is pushing the limits of legislation. Of course, if it were an extraordinary situation, we might be able to accept them, but the five years of the 27th Legislature, which we have witnessed and witnessed, have melted away in the same unaccounted-for conflict of the agenda. At the end of each year, the proposals that mattered and should have been made during limited time have been repeated, and the quality of our great House of Parliament has once again been struck. As today's political government has apparently lost its license to run the country, its quality of law enforcement, the ability to draft a law proposal, the ability to regulate legislatures, has, unfortunately, lost its driver's license. Dear lawmakers, 23 articles of the 66-point proposal contain regulations known publicly as ▪3600 additional indicators. Mr. President-in-Chief, we welcome, of course, the fact that this matter has been expressed over the years by the power and has been taken into consideration by the General Assembly, but as the promise of elections in the June 24, 2018 elections, the 3600 additional indicators you have committed to our nation four years later, as an election promotion, it is not a choice but a necessity, it is incomplete and unconclusive. As the content of this arrangement begins to be shared with the public, it is understood how much it does not meet expectations. The Justice and Development Party has broken the scales of justice in the matter of 3600 additional indicators, as has always been on the ground. Unfortunately, this good deed for the good of our nation has not been done properly. The law proposal, in its form, has a structure that will bring injustice to all public employees. Only half of our citizens, who expect to have 3,600 additional indicators, have earned what they deserve by offering this law. We see that our other citizens are subject to what we call an increase in what we call a display indicator. We call it showability, because it has not been possible for our under 3600 people to make a significant contribution in their jobs or pensions. If we are here as representatives of the Turkish nation, then we really must address the voice of our citizens from this stand. Our proposal is: We want to increase the rate set for additional indicators, less than 3,600, by the 2nd article of the proposal by 40 points. Let's raise it so that the real goal of this bill is to let our retired underinflation breathe in peace. Dear lawmakers, in the 27th term, we discussed 273 legal proposals, including international agreements. Among these proposals were disputed, ill-advised, or many misdeeds, but none of them brought so much demand and complaint to our party group from almost every part of society. Our police are complaining, our brothers and sisters with different squads between our cops are complaining, the police chiefs are complaining, unfortunately we should be aware that we're turning the order between the one who gives orders to our police departments. We don't see that you're aware that you've damaged the chain of command, that you've damaged his superior relationship. The staff in different positions of public institutions are dissipating, and the pension at the next table is increasing, and why is my pension not increasing? He really calls out and moans. And also, for example, our friends at our universities are in real trouble, and they're expressing their frustrations. They say that only university office heads remain among the public institutions who do not receive a severance package. We have to consider the right response and demands of our citizens, and we say, let's all end this injustice together. Not just our police, but our health workers' expectations have become disappointments. In the past few weeks, we will make up for the improvements in health care workers' rights by ▪3600 arrangements. Your word has failed. In fact, you don't have to go too far to see these injustices, it's enough to get out of the General Assembly and walk down the halls. We've all seen together how this proposal of the law is disbanded, including members of Parliament, and you need to see this. You have to realize that you have victimized everyone from your expert to your stenographer, saying, "It's separate from the one that entered before this date, it's after this date." We, as the Good Party, have a constructive view of opposition that does politics only in the interests of our nation, with criticisms in every area our citizens demand, and we will continue to express our solution proposals in a quiet way and continue to express them. We are not one of those who lie in wait, and we will not be one of those who lie in wait. We have never disdained nor will we benefit from the harm of the people. As our president-in-chief says, these suggestions are national property, open to use. In the nature of politics, not listening to the voice of the opposition is indeed a failure; it should be taken and perceived as a skill, not a weakness, but rather a skill and a skill. However, we are faced with a political structure that prefers to insist on wrongs rather than taking that line as a reference. For us, politics is only about being able to serve the nation, of course. So, let's correct these wrongs, meet the right expectations of our citizens, eliminate the injustices between the staff. Let's fix some of the work peace we've been wearing down for years. Dear lawmakers, another important issue is the state of our pensions and pensions. We have about 13 million pensioners, widows and orphans, 9 million of whom are retired directly. With this arrangement, we've raised your pension from $2,500 to $3,500, but with $3,500, we're dealing with a pensioner who can buy about 120 litres of diesel. And let him be far below the poverty line, far below the hunger limit. We're talking about a level of income that wouldn't make a living if two pensioners were together. Today, the Istanbul Chamber of Commerce announced the Financial Index; last year in Istanbul inflation -- let's say it's your word -- price increases are 94%; the account of independent academics is 160 per cent, and is based on 180 per cent on June figures that will be announced on Monday. There's an increase in housing prices, and there's an increase in prices in basic consumer products. Under the circumstances, how much is it possible for a family to get along without an elderly wife, a child, grandchildren? How possible is an honorable life? For him, the table of grandparents, grandmothers and mothers that we see on screens and social media is not really in tune with 2022 Turkey, and will always be in memory as a photograph of what political power today is doing. When it comes to everyone, everything, especially our pension pensioners, who don't have a problem paying for public dollars. Look, this year, the Osmangazi Bridge will be transferred from around $7.5 billion in treasure. I thought you said that no money would be transferred from the government when the bridge was promised or guaranteed? Look, where did your account come from? $7.5 billion is the money the treasure will pay to the business firm for the Osmangazi Bridge this year alone. However, this is supposed to be zero lira at the exact time of the transition. Here, all of your accounts are wrong and you're calling out to all of Turkey: go to Turkish lira, do it with Turkish lira. In fact, despite the recent BDK arrangement, an indirect transaction towards capital control, such as giving Turkish lira to people with over 15 million foreign currency, you're not taking a turn about the transactions you're tendering exchanges with companies that guarantee exchanges. Although we have repeatedly warned you, come, if you are making arrangements in Turkey, turn your foreign currency guaranteed tenders to these companies referred to as supporters into Turkish liras. But it's the opposite. What are you doing? You're trying to protect them for a period of time, including bureaucrats with procedures, when they're out of power, and you're demanding that they continue their income. This did not happen; this did not happen in Turkey or in any other country. It's a contract that was made after he started the job. It's not right; it's not legal, it's conscience, it's moral. When a person gets a job, you make a contract for a certain amount of time... For ten years, I make such a contract. You say, "You go in the sixth year, you pay for another four years." But as a sign of what you're really doing and what you're doing, it's just as a sign of what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing. Of course, it's not just a $7.5 billion Treasury payment; it's a total of $14 billion to an Ottomangazi Bridge that can be spent with services and care. With today's money, there's an excess of about $200 billion. In Turkey, where the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge costs $1 billion, does it not leave you with your conscience in your efforts to pay $14 billion to the Osmangazi Bridge by 2035? The only money we're paying is 25 billion liras, which is naked and visible. The tax pardons we've provided to some firms alone are $10 billion. When you add these together, maybe you won't need an additional budget, there'll be an additional revenue creation. There will surely be a reward for your generosity in passing on the protection of officers, workers, students to these supporters and supporters. Look, with respect to the KYK, with regard to universities; yes, we're there for that, but there is a tremendous need for an arrangement about these loans, about our students who have finished this university and are unemployed. It is extremely humiliating and overwhelming for our young people to live with 8 million people, 8 million of our students, in a Turkey that we have put at the university gates, and in Turkey, where we have not been able to get any distance from unemployment in the last ten years, to lend them to their state and to live as people who are drowning under that debt. In this framework, close to $70 billion in KCI payments in 2022, all of this is a landscape that shows that there really is no need for resources, no shortage of resources. Honourable MPs, in this framework, this understanding of Turkey, this policy understanding, this practice of execution and this way of ruling in Turkey, has brought Turkey into the deepest economic crisis in its history, and Turkey has pushed it to a very serious shift in international relations. It really hurts us that our President was wrapped up in what we called a murderer yesterday. (Applause from the party) Mr. President is the owner of the murder, and the opposition leader did not say and greet Mr. President. On the back of July 15th, that's what we call it, and unfortunately, it's throwing us away. For him, Turkey needs political climate change. We supported the relevant clauses of this law proposal -- particularly the indicator and the college pardon -- and we cared about them. At the last meeting of this year's legislature, I wish you all the best when the relevant proposal becomes law.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0028par0115	Thank you. The talks for the groups are complete. Ankara MP Orhan Yegin is the first person on behalf of the entire proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yegin.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0029par0120	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the general proposal of the State Officers' Law and the amendment to Article 375 of the Law. I salute our holy nation and the Veterans Assembly representing it. Dear lawmakers, who have touched every part of society, who have been concerned about their demands, their problems, who have been troubled, who have been concerned about their solution, who have taken the necessary steps to resolve the possibilities, and while doing so, all they care about is taking the blessing of their nation, and we are giving you today's appreciation for the general council, which is 65 plus one temporary, 66 of which we've matured with the very valuable contributions that we've made in the preparation and debates of the proposal. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, each and every one of us would certainly like to do the perfect work on behalf of the nation, to create complete satisfaction. We'd like to make sentences that everyone will accept with great pleasure, write texts, offer arrangements, of course, but as human beings, as possible, it can also be the limitations and framework of our resources. In every case, even though every detail is tried to come up with a solution, there are issues that are missing, and they can be, but I'd like to start by consulting with all of them, by trying to find the best, by trying to find the best, sometimes by pushing the most possible, and by thanking everyone who's done so much in the process. Mr. President, in the context of our proposal, we have taken the necessary steps in this direction, especially in the matter known as the 3600 additional indicators of our public opinion, concerning about about 4 million public employees and 2.5 million retired officers, and since some professions have to have their own personnel laws and have to be regulated separately in addition to the additional indicators. With a formula out of the four professional groups of teachers, police, nurses, and religious officials mentioned earlier, which will create a much wider framework, we provide an arrangement that will provide a 600-point increase in our officers' additional indicators, with as many exceptions as possible, by observing the hierarchical balance as possible. Other than that, we offer additional payments to those who have a high school and equal education from law enforcement personnel who have been paid for pension and disability by the safety services class on the basis of this proposal, and who have not earned the right to pay the state compensation with their pensions and their pensions, and who have been assigned to the Turkish Armed Forces Staff each month, and who have been assigned to the staff of the Turkish Armed Forces, and who have been appointed to the staff under the Law of Staff, and who have not been granted the full extent of the provision of this arrangement, and who have not been able to be paid by the scope of the 3600 months, including those who have been assigned to the members of the Turkish Armed Forces General Staff and Coast Guard. With the motion adopted in the commission, we provide additional indicators of staff and staff in the community-owned professions of public institutions and institutions who are employed in the country's sector, and an increase from the end of last year to the end of the year to an increase of 100 per cent from 2,500 euros to 3,000 euros in pensions, with the proposal given by our Commission for the lowest pension. In addition, we add some materials to our package in the field of higher education to meet some demands from both our students and our higher education institutions. In this regard, we give the most important substance to our students, who are incomplete in university education and who want to complete their higher education -- more than 4 million -- a new opportunity for our students -- and in this framework, we wish them all the best, and we add something extra to their higher education without limiting them for a period of time, even though they were cut off from studying at universities. The point he got when he earned the right to be a college student is that he can also enter another program at that time, equal to or above the last person's score, make a different choice between departments, and again be able to make a different choice between universities, and thus give students the right to quit school because they don't fit in, because they don't like the department, and that's when they get into college, if they're evened up, if they're compatible in that period, then they have the right to be able to move on and go on in another department. We're also setting up a provision that prevents those convicted of crimes such as terrorism, manslaughter, sexual assault, child sexual abuse, drug and stimulant drugs, and trafficking. With another item that we're offering, we're opening the way for bail bonds made by insurance companies to be accepted as collateral for both public purchases and property sales. Again, we are going to increase in sanctions in order to protect our consumer, protect them from the problems our consumer will face in the face of tomorrow's product, or to address the victims of seeking their rights in different stages, in order to reduce non-responsibility, in order to increase the deterrentity of certain special irregularities sentences, in order to avoid billing and receipts and receipts. With another very important arrangement, we will increase the funds from 50 billion to 100 billion, which will increase our COBI access to loans, production, exports, with an arrangement that will increase production, employment, and exports to loan guarantees that ensure new bail opportunities under the Credit Trust System. In other words, we are also making arrangements for the promotion of a career career from other institutions in order to increase the institutional capacity of the MASAK presidency and the chairmanship of Strategy and Budget. Despite a two-time notary ad in the Notary Act, we're putting together an arrangement that can't be appointed to a notary that can't be appointed, a sub-class, a list of volunteers, and a notary that can be notarized without committing to anything that will disrupt the seniority process, where there's no empty notaries left, reaching more notars, faster and faster, by losing less time to access these services than in closer places. Again, here, with an arrangement that we've made earlier, we're also eliminating a victimicity that can be made in universities, especially by the exception of those who have registered after 24 October 2024, with the exception of those who will graduate before 31 March 2024, after 24 October 2019, in order to take a judge's candidacy and assistant judge's and prosecutor's office exam or start a notary's internship. Well, there are a lot more important things in our proposal, but I'm out of time. Mr. President, I've told you in the Commission that the sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally, our nation...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0030par0136	Second speaker on behalf of him, Ankara MP Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0031par0139	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I give you all my compliments. I have taken a personal oath on the State Officers Act 346 and on the Proposal for Amendments to Law 375. I'd like to take this opportunity to present some matters to you. Dear friends, as I just said, this bag has the qualities that we've always criticised in the form of the law, and it's still in possession, and it's even worse. Other than that, there are major problems in context, significant problems in the State Staff Act, Code 375, by the Code of Law. Things are getting more complicated about these things, unfortunately, with these arrangements, we're improving the condition of certain segments, but we're making the system worse, by the way. Now, these have been told by our dear friends who have just spoken, our fourth year is nearly up, my fellow congressmen in Parliament. I'd like to make an assessment on this occasion, if I may. I see important, I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, where, as often as there are law proposals, as often as there are possible here in the General Assembly, you know about money issues that come into the Plan and Budget Commission. We're trying to explain our views on the economy as money comes to the attention of issues related to economics. We, of course, are opposition MPs, who are not listening, but my dear fellow citizens, the Parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as members of this Veteran Assembly, we all have a responsibility in this matter. You see, the economy is getting worse, dear friends, the troubles are too much, the economy of the country isn't good. It's very important data, foreign trade data. In the first five months of last year, we've made $18 billion in foreign trade deficits -- $18 billion -- over $43 billion this year, and we don't even need another number. Look, there's $18 billion, $43 billion, there's a huge increase, there's a 136 percent increase. Other economic data, macro sizes, as you already know, are troubled. Dear friends, we always warn of the error of the ways of things. Let me put it this way: Last year in September, the indicator interest was 19 percent, and the policy interest was 19 percent, and inflation was 19 percent around here. It's been held, it's gone to a policy change all of a sudden; we're going to increase exports, we're going to give more wages. It's been said, interest will be dropped, so far we've been wrong. All of a sudden, interest rates were reduced, 14 was reduced to 14, as if it were an acceptable ratio, in five months, and inflation was also detonated. And now you see how troubled we are at this point. Dear friends, the wrongs in the economy are also reflected in foreign policy. Look, we said there would be money coming from Qatar -- it's just been said -- what we did to the Qatars -- what we did to them -- before, then -- for the United Arab Emirates, our relations with Saudi Arabia are the same. No money has come from anywhere, nor comes, nor comes, nor is it enough, whether it comes, but now we expect money from Israel, and now from different places. Look, we even had to talk to the Greek Cypriots -- we don't know the Greek Cypriots -- we couldn't veto their arrival in NATO, we couldn't veto the entrance of Sweden and Finland. It's because of the weakness in the economy. The weaker you become in the economy, the weaker you become in politics, the weaker Turkey becomes. You have to see this; it's a beka problem, and it's going towards it. You have to understand them, see them, take precautions. These are our responsibilities, dear friends, we have to make this assessment in our fourth year. Now, the power -- it has its policies, it has its own policies -- there may not be a lot of work to be done before the election, but -- is now expecting $10 billion from the sale of assets. The sale of assets is the sale of shares of some of our assets, such as Istanbul Airport and so on. They're expecting $10 billion from there - $10 billion from specialization. This is the last 15 million TL operation that's been done, and in the end, 10,000 companies have 15 billion dollars -- the president of the BDK announced today -- an operation aimed at getting part of that $15 billion into the Central Bank; it's expected to get some money from here. Other than that, the refugees will receive 15-20 billion dollars -- refugees -- and they will bring with them foreign money -- dollars -- and there will be 15-20 billion dollars expected from them -- the account of Nasrettin Hoxha -- with which the economy will be maintained. Dear friends, from April, 182 billion dollars will be repaid in one year. Will Turkey survive with these? Is it possible that the Turkish economy is hot with these? On December 20th -- it's a period of panic -- when it was said to be a hedge-protected deposit account, the positive results were taken, but on June 9th, the operation was done -- which was actually a manipulation by the Treasury and Finance Ministry, which unfortunately produced speculative results. On June 24th, it was repeated, and again, it didn't pan out. We're in a pretty rough patch right now. Dear friends, the world has entered a different era, the world economy at a different time, the world economy is being reorganized, world politics, world balances are being restructured. It's a time like this. America, the Western war against China, it's important, it's important, it's important. While the West, the United States, wants to bend Russia and take it with it, it is impossible for Turkey to submit to the United States, the West, or other countries at a time when its economy is so weak. As I said earlier, we have to submit to everything. Just as we were unable to veto the arrival of the Greek part to NATO, so to speak, we face many challenges as we failed to veto Sweden and Finland. The economy needs to get better as soon as possible. Dear friends, I told you the other day: look, in the past years, for example, in 2012, we made a $196 billion budget, $196 billion. In 2013, we had a $212 billion budget, and when the initial budget was finished, the budget was close to $250 billion. So the budget we made this year was 140 billion and so on, you know, it dropped to $100 billion in value; it wasn't enough, now we've made an additional budget, we don't know what's going to happen at the end of the year, we don't know what's going to happen, we don't know what's going to happen, so our budget values are down by half. We need to see these things, not block our ears about them. Here, in this House, we all have our responsibility. We have to take this responsibility, which means we have to alert the government, the economy, together. After that, some work will be of no use, and warning won't help; it must be warned in time. The work done by economic management is wrong, and the results are very clear. We all have to be responsible for this, and we all have to do it. There's not much to be said about that, about the bag of law proposals. We wish him luck. So, as far as we could, we tried to correct the items in the bag of law proposals. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you well next semester. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0032par0153	Thank you, thank you. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers Articles 1 to 23. On the first part of the proposal, Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli will speak on behalf of the Good Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Cinisli.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0033par0161	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. First of all, I wish this bag of laws well. I'd like to thank the bidders, my first-signed colleague, Orhan Yegin Sir, who has left the hall -- for his good intentions now -- and for their beautiful statements during the Commission. I thank you, though I do not think that we can do very useful work for our country, for their contribution and good work to the members of the Plan and Budget Commission, in this final law proposal to the General Assembly following the final Plan and Budget Commission meeting. Yes, the situation of our economy, which has become a national security problem, is that we are again discussing a bag of 57 articles and then 65 articles. Unfortunately, we didn't get off to a very happy start, which was a bag of laws that we were caught extremely unprepared for. I'd like to start with the procedure, if you don't mind. I didn't like taking classes without studying in my entire teaching life, and I didn't like to take tests without reading; and other commissions -- we have friends here from NATO Parliament Assembly -- it's not my custom to come to unprepared commission meetings. But I regret to inform you that we have come to this Commission without reading a word to this Commission meeting -- Article 57, Article 65. Not just me, but almost all our congressman friends because... [[Whistling]] Mr. President, can they be quiet, folks, 'cause I can't concentrate.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0034par0168	Mr. Ramadan, there's noise, noise coming from there. Guys, talk outside, please... Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0033par0170	Thank you. ...after 12 o'clock at night, we entered these meetings without any preparation until we entered the Commission meeting. We've tried to contribute in these meetings, of course, but in fact, it's more than an injustice and disrespect to us lawmakers, it's a disrespect and injustice to millions who would benefit from this bill. We've been prevented from contributing enough to them. On this occasion, as a member of a party with a responsibility and a spirit, I apologize to our beloved nation for not being able to contribute to this bill, even though we are in opposition. We're not responsible for this, I'm afraid it's power. And I'd like to make that very clear from here. As I said, this attitude and practice is a great injustice and disrespect to our nation. While this bill was being discussed, we faced great challenges, despite Orhan Bey's great good intentions. We couldn't get any details on the proposal, no details about the areas it would affect. If a law proposal comes to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the areas it will affect, the sectors, the millions, how it will be affected, and how it will be affected in a positive sense or in a negative sense. We didn't get any of that analysis, either. We didn't get it. During the meetings, some of our lawmakers -- even our lawmakers from power -- have rightly criticised the bureaucracy, and criticised the lack of bureaucracy. I said my thoughts on this matter during the Commission meeting, and for some reason, I had a huge reaction, and I still don't understand why. I also find it very surprising that the EC PARTY government and its members are insufferable with political comments like this, and I think I consider that as a symbol of extinction. Why can't we get enough information at the Commission meetings? Despite the goodwill of their MPs, despite the good intentions of lawmakers from the ruling party, they want to inform us as much as they can about the law proposals they signed, but they can't get enough support from bureaucracy; we see that. The reason for this is, frankly, the valued lawmakers: the presidential government system. This system, unfortunately, is sacrificing both bureaucracy and the ruling legislature of the law; it is a victim of the system, it is a victim of bureaucracy and the power of living. As you know, in the new system, as the Constitution has written, ministers, ministries are not responsible for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We shouldn't expect the minister, the sole political chief of power, to feel responsible for the Parliament when his secretary is not responsible for the House, and the bureaucracy working under him is responsible for the Parliament. They know that they are responsible for one person, one office, the palace, so they can ignore the precious power deputies here, and sometimes forget the responsibility of the state they carry, and I don't find the blame in worthy bureaucrat friends, it's entirely in the system, and it's close to changing this system. I'd like to say that from here. As far as the law is concerned, the offer of law is made up of two phases. When I was in elementary school, we were written essays, articles, novels, and they asked us what was the main idea and the main emotion? I think the idea of this law proposal is to ensure the lives of the men he's leaving behind because he knows the ruling party is a goner. The ruling party felt the need to guarantee its own staff in order to sign off on all the irresponsibility it had today, especially the Parliament needed to guarantee its senior executive staff, and -- God willing -- has later signed a very unfair application that will tie its hand to the future legislature. I hope this doesn't become a tradition, this wrong, unhealthy practice ends here, and hopefully this item will recant; it's a very, very uncomfortable, diseased substance that doesn't follow the tradition of the Turkish state at all. As for the main emotion, the main emotion is how we can distribute beads to hold them from one end of the box because they know they're going to lose the election again, so we're going to lose the election, but what can we do to win a chance? Here, too, the additional indicators are intended to give some advantages to a very large part of our nation, which is obvious. But I'd also like to remind you that ever since we formed our party, Madam Mayor Coral Akşener, I can say that she is the first political person to say the expression in Turkish politics, and after their testimony, the President has repeatedly said that they would bring 3600 additional indicators -- the elections have passed -- they've made election promises, and it's as if they've spread to a very broad range to spread time or not to do so. We're skeptical of intimacy, and if these 3600 additional indicators and others were sincere, they wouldn't have left it before the election, and in time, these indicators would have been applied. I'd also like to point out that when these applications are being performed, it's as if they've been taken out of the eye as if they were making eyebrows. I mean, there are complaints here that feel like rain. There are injustices. There is a practice in public life, especially in public, that will challenge great unrest, a disorder in the hierarchy. Its intention is not to serve the nation, but to win the election. This is the greatest injustice to Turkey. It's not just in this text of the law, but in the laws that came before, we've had this disadvantage, this lame understanding. Again, there are so many legal texts here in the Plan and Budget Commission -- this is in the 57-65-point law proposal -- we've changed the laws we made two months, three months, four months, five months ago, and there's a similar application in this law text. I wanted to get into technical matters in my next speech, but there's been a major problem with these audit guys in particular. The controllers are a very important element in the country, but of course, we have to forget that when you ask ourselves why this unfair application was intended in these control elements, why was it caused, we have to forget that Mr. President set the Court a short time ago, and asked the Court not to see it, why do you see everything? And I don't think it's very strange that he's been exposed in an environment where he says that. I pay my respects and wish you a good day.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0035par0182	İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0036par0184	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first chapter of Law Proposal 346. I salute the Veterans and our beloved nation. The law proposal we're talking about is making important arrangements that are very important to our employees and pensioners. The first 21 articles of the law proposal envision changes in the additional indicators, duty pensions and compensations of pensions with officers and other public officials. The 1st article of the proposal has been improved in the service months of staff members of the House of Property Management Services. In Article 2 of the article 2, additional indicator groups are being redesigned based on the changes made by the relevant personnel laws or by the amendments made to the legislation, as well as by raising the proportions of compensation projections by up to 3 times, the President is authorized to change or redistribute additional indicator groups. The president's decision also makes it possible for a change in the percentage of public employees' additional indicators reflected in pensions. Under another regulation, additional indicators for the pension of the Turkish Armed Forces, the General Command and Coast Guard Command of the Turkish Armed Forces, the Petty Officers, the Special Policemen and Specialists 926 must be paid by 1.200 Turkish lira each month, as well as those assigned to investigative titles under the Interim 32°rd Article of the Turkish Armed Forces Act, as well as those assigned to investigative titles of the market and neighborhood guard, on the basis of their pension or disability monthly payments. The main backbone of the proposal is the restructuring of additional indicators of officers and other public officials within the framework of the personnel law they are subject to. Due to its reflection on pensions, the additional indicator is one of the key elements of the salaries of civil servants and other public servants. The comprehensive regulation on additional indicators is finally being implemented in 1994, with further indicators, as set out as of 1/1/1995, under the provisions of Law No. 527. In the Law of State Officers No. 657, 926 for members of the Turkish Armed Forces, 2914 for academic staff, 2802 for judges and prosecutors; in the Laws 3269 and 3466 for our senior and expert gendarmes; in the Laws 3269 and 3466. With the proposal, first, the existing indicators are increased by 600 points, including those who can't benefit from the additional indicators, and some titles are replaced by additional indicator groups. In this framework, teachers, police, health workers, religious officials, specialists, MPs, branch managers, deputy governors, district managers, public defenders, careers and planning experts in the country, and many such titles include 3,600 additional indicators. As the National Movement Party, we have agreed that officers and pensioners in the titles mentioned in our election declarations must be used for additional 3600 indicators. We consider and support this arrangement, which includes about 6 million people, is an important step towards improving the financial and social rights of our civil servants and pensioners and raising the level of prosperity. However, as a result of the arrangement, the need for improvement in the hierarchical levels of healing in the framework of duty, authority and responsibility, in this direction we see the need to be corrected in accordance with the responsibilities of our municipal security managers and security managers, who have worked day and night to ensure the safety of our citizens, which is epic in the fight against terrorism. We also consider that the legal and financial status of public employees is necessary, as stated in our election statement, to be organised with a complete understanding of where they work, with all the elements of duty, authority, responsibility, title, status, and so forth, without service, a comprehensive staff regime on pensions, progress and promotions, financial and social rights. Public employees have an important function at the point of representation of the state, with the duty of providing effective public services, especially public safety and public health, to regulate the relationship between the state and citizen, to enforce the rules and laws set by the legislative body. Therefore, as the July 15th treacherous coup attempt has shown, it is vital to the nation's nation to first assume the public duties of those who have the right to call the country the Turkish nation. As the National Movement Party, we see the need for our citizens to have access to public services all over our country, to employ qualified public staff and to provide effective and efficient public service services for the function of public service functions. Dear lawmakers, an important arrangement made with the proposal of the law is to raise the minimum payment of $3,500 to pensioners, pensioners, and rights holders who are receiving a monthly pension. Another important and comprehensive arrangement in all classes, including preparation for higher education institutions, may be possible to begin studies in 2022-2023 school year, with the application of a higher education institution that cuts ties in four months, for any reason, from pre-license, licensing, undergraduate students to those who have been cut off, including their own wishes, to those who have not committed certain crimes. In the first part of the proposal, the cuts of OYAK members are also being restructured under additional indicators, and those assigned to some experts and supervisors are expected to benefit from the additional indicator set for these titles, regardless of the requirements for competencies in the public. Bail bonds, which are widely implemented in the insurance sector, can be adopted as collateral for the Law on Collectives of Amme Buyers No. 6183. The changes made in the Higher Education Law are also intended to promote and promote post-doc research employment. We believe that our brothers and sisters who work for minimum wage with our officers and pensions will not be crushed by the arrangements that have been made and expected to be made, and that the level of prosperity will rise along with the expected increases in wages and wages. As the National Movement Party, we will continue to support the regulations in our nation's favor and continue to live effectively and control our activities in this direction. With these thinkers, I wish you all the best with our officers and pensioners, to our country and our nation, and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0037par0198	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Necdet İpekım, Batman MP.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0038par0200	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, our friends have expressed that a bag of legislation is being brought in on the last day of the House's vacation, and everyone is very curiously waiting for a holiday. In many places ahead of the holiday, the press and various studies announced: "There will be great news for the public, very good arrangements for public employees will be made. " And the public has long been waiting for the organisational community with actions and press statements, and for their visits to the Assembly, and for this arrangement to be carried out, their voices are being pushed out, they are being taken into custody, they are being taken into custody. And what happened? Now we've got a bag of laws. The bag's not just public, there's a lot of stuff in the law. For our party's sake, I'll be in chapter one, handling the process of public workers, especially in terms of indicators. During the budget period of the Plan and Budget Commission, the Minister of Labour said that when it was first elected -- the Ministry had changed because it was divided in two -- that when it sat down, it would continue all its work with trade unions, that it would take public workers into account in all its works, that it would take the workers into account, and he said: "We will do revolution." The current process is not revolution; it is not reform; it is deception; it is perception. Why would I try to tell you about deception, perception? A reform, a revolution, a law regulation, first listen to opposition parties and especially democratic mass organizations, NGOs; we need to travel with them so that the equal, fair and law doesn't change at all. With the presidential government system, the law changes every once in a while because it's not well studied. What is it? Turkey now has three confederations. These confederations normally need to be collected according to the law, and there's another committee called the Public Staff Advisory Board. The Ministry of Labor needs to sit down on these, especially on public employees, financial and social rights. Now they're saying that we've made arrangements for the public. There are three legal confederations, they haven't met with any of them. Who did they meet? With MEMUR-SEN. Is that how you're gonna pass the law? When you don't take these into consideration, will you talk about equality, justice, and peace of working in public? None of them do. And so much work is being done 3600, 3600; 3600 what is it really? It's an arrangement on public fees for the title, class, service and degree. Does the arrangement regarding this 3,600 ▪ really reflect on everyone? Now, when you look at the press, when you look at the TVs, it's like it's reflected to everyone, but not when you ask the public employees, the confederations. Why not? Because, friends, right now, there are about 5.5 million public employees, or rather, public employees and pensioners, 3.5 million employees. This 3.5 million employees can take advantage of 1,750,000, 1 million and 750,000 can't. Why? These started after 2008. The main goal of the Justice and Development Party is to bring in an arrangement that is socially unsecured, part-time, and all of which will make people work as slaves, to protect the capital, to increase the number of minimum wage and to take everything they give in public, not to give. And for that, are there any other contractors besides this 1,750,000? No. There's about 595-600,000 contract holders; there isn't. There are people working in private status, do they exist? No. Once you've already finished the public, you've finished the equality, you've finished the 4/A, 4/B, 4/C, 4/D, and when you edit them, you can't keep getting even, you always bring different arrangements. And the arrangement for 3,600 is just as it affects some people. But other than 3600, they said to all those under 8,000 and those who didn't have an arrangement for 3,600. Now we're adding 600 points. When you say, "How good, how good, how much more?" Do you know what it means to add 600 points? A gross 140-something lira, net 117 Turkish liras, and this 117 Turkish liras in January 2023. Is this what you call justice? You're already leaving some of it out, and you're saying that the arrangement you're making will be distributed to everyone as equals. None of it is reflected, and it's all about pleasure and demands. Now, they call it the Ministry of Labor. Apart from the Ministry of Labor, the Ministry of Labor pretended to work on the word security, security, especially those in the law enforcement department, as much as possible to arrange demands for what's happening in the judicial department, and many other employees' demands have not been taken into account. Teachers... well, half the teachers started after 2008; there's no arrangement, there's no arrangement about teachers. Many of the public workers began nearly 50 per cent after 2008; there are no regulations. Here's an example of the arrangements you're making right now: it's about physicians. We talked to the physicians here in December. The physicians said: you give back capital, you give performance; normally it doesn't reflect on our pension. If a company doesn't give too much money and reflect it, it's a punishment, but the public doesn't do it that way. What happened? Now there are no physicians again, no physicians again, no arrangements. Then you say, "Why are the paramedics leaving?" The physicians insisted: "Your money does not reflect on our retirement, nor does it reflect on our work." Not with performance, but with a basic fee, organize our salaries, monthly fees. There is no regulation on this, and as long as we don't correct the basic monthly coefficient, the public staff will always experience problems unless we reform the public. We, as the People's Democratic Party, have been saying since the first day: not performance, not return capital, but normally according to people's time of service, that a real reform is needed in the public, and the basic monthly salary must be arranged. Retirement means creating an environment where your post-work life, your comfort, will continue in a healthy way. Condemning hunger is not forcing it to work again. But we're looking at the majority of retired people in Turkey looking for a second job, and they're having a lot of trouble working. Another arrangement, friends, has been set up in the first section for municipalities; an arrangement concerning the authorities of municipalities and their special compensations. Yeah, there are 96 trustees in this country, the authorities are occupied, and they're still mayors. You don't bring up a lot of things about them, you just ignore them when we bring them up. On the other hand, you're telling the managers that we're making arrangements, we're giving them a severance package. It's not a severance package, it's not a severance fee, it's an arrangement that's now occupied, it's an extension of the trustees' will every two months; it's necessary to resist the will that extends every two months, and there's no regulation on that. Another is, are we conducting a study of our fellow consultants who have passed the law, who have carried out a lot of studies with legislation, who have prepared information notes, who have proposed research, who have proposed questions? None of our fellow advisors working with us have an arrangement for severance pay. Congress takes them out for a month, starts them up again, that's the law, that's the example? We're not fair about that either. We ignore our fellow advisors who worked together, who put all their efforts to vote on these laws together. On the one hand, the caterers, the tea makers, even members of the council, have the same training, the same group has a salary difference. The real solution is the emergence of a good public reform law. As long as that doesn't happen, it's a failure, and if that doesn't happen, the inequality increases, and the troubles get bigger. Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0039par0211	İstanbul MP Engin Altay on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0040par0214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I salute you and the General Assembly. While we do not meet expectations of the economic rights of everyone working in the public, who is not working, we make some positive changes. Maybe we should start here: we're in the place where the law is made, the lawmakers have assistants; there are consultants in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, parliamentary advisers, and we've never, ever given any right to our suspended advisers. And by "kids," I mean, this staff of ours should be entitled to severance pay, because of the institutions of the institutions, but why didn't we place the parliamentary advisors in a 60-point bag, Mr. Kubat, who served us half our brains, who served us from morning until evening? I'm asking you, Mr. Commission, why don't you give me a seat? We come in the morning, our eyes and our hands and our feet, these children, it's not right to rule them out, to run them like peasants, but in the meantime, we bring a special shield of protection to the senior bureaucrats of the Turkish National Assembly with this bill. This shows: First, I want to thank Mr. Şentop. His request for a special protection shield from the ruling party for his own staff is now a clear indication that he is experiencing the final days of power. (HPP) But from the Secretary General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the gardener, let everyone know that in our power and in our majority of Parliament, we don't eat anyone's rights or laws anyway. (CHP claps) Whatever merit is, whatever justice is, we do it; there is no need for such a protective shield. It's not a protection shield, but if we're going to run a justice and justice mechanism, we've got an supplemental offer, we haven't given it yet, maybe we'll give the AK PARTY, and we'll vote yes, as long as they've done it. Let's give our exposed advisors the benefit of the doubt. Look, every day we look at each other, every day -- it doesn't matter if Mr. Elitaş listens or not -- it's enough for the consciences to hear -- (Applause from CHP rows) -- we look each other in the eye every day; who do we look at, who do we look at? Here, here. Don't we think they've got a problem? Yeah, we serve on the same roof. You've been chosen by the precious votes of our beloved nation, and you've come here with appreciation. By carefully following every word that comes out of our mouths -- I don't know the names of some of the Regents -- these friends are following us enough to know all of our names, last names, and names. They're doing a very valuable service. Do we have any friends in this bag? No. What the hell is this? I'm speaking to Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we don't have a complaint that Turkey is representing in other countries, and we would, too, but my brother has his own advisors, for the majority party, for the stenographers, for the parliamentary assistant staff and so on. What? The Assistant Secretary General, this is, this is what we're going to protect them in these positions. It's a bad thing to do.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0041par0218	That's what they do.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0040par0219	They'll do it. Dear friends, in this law today, of course, there are major distortions in the matter of 3600, and I think the reason is, when did Law 657 come out? It's been too long. I believe it's been 60 years since Law 657 came out, dated in 1965, dated when I was 2, and I'm 58 years old; for fifty-six years there have been over 100 changes in this Law.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0042par0221	Mayor, you look 40. 40.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0040par0222	Thank you very much, brother. And since that's not going to happen, I'm going to need a patched-up model... Now, we've given something to the employees of the community, the government, but we're disturbing the peace, including the Police Department, the Ministry of National Education. Let's not. I'm not saying we'll vote for it. It is the People's Party of the Republic, which has spoken 3,600 times, so the law has come here. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) The pressure of society, the pressure of Republican People's Party on 3,600 puts the pressure of public employees on it, and the law has come because the AK PARTI can't stand it, but I'm asking you, is it possible that two people are responsible for the security of a province, one is the governor of the province, one is the governor of the guerrilla regiment? The police commissioner looks at the city limits, the gendarme looks at the countryside. Even if there are municipal borders, the rural neighborhoods are in the gendarmes, the centers are in the police. They're both responsible for the safety of the province. What have I always said: our gratitude, heart and loyalty never ceases. The Turkish police are not afraid to be martyrs, they are afraid to retire. I said. I'll look at it so I don't say it wrong. Now, for example, when our general commander-in-chief's indicator was 8400, our chief of police is 7600, both dependent on the minister of crime, both of them.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0043par0225	Where's justice?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0040par0226	For example, our governor-of-the-art general of the county police regiment is 5400 -- lawful as his mother's white milk -- but our county commissioner's indicator is 4200.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0043par0227	Where's justice?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0040par0228	No justice, no equality.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0044par0229	We have a motion, a motion, in a moment.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0040par0230	I'll tell you something else: He's become very political, but the Head of Religious Affairs is important to all of us. It would be better if our religion, our religion, our guide, feared the Lord God as much as he feared Erdogan. (CHP) But here's the thing: our President of Religious Affairs has a bearing of 9,000, our Supreme Court Attorney's point is not 8,000, I don't think. I don't say much about the President of Religious Affairs, but the Supreme Court Attorney is at the top of the judiciary in this country. I was here yesterday, at the press conference, critical of the Supreme Court, which is one thing, but to say this, there is no justice, there is no justice. There are chefs, there are public chefs. Guys, they're too low. Chiefs, for example, can't benefit from 3,600 ▪ no matter how much education they receive, but they benefit from another professional who has studied for two years through open education. Tech services are taking advantage of it, but the archaeologists, museum researchers, physicists, anthropologists, geologists, they only get 600 increases, but the engineer gets more. What I'm trying to say is, since we're doing a job, let's do it fair, let's do it even. One example of this inequality is that -- I told you yesterday -- the minimum pensions were expected to increase from 2,500 to 3,000. When this proposal came, I said: "It's not an equivalency, it's not an equitable approach to give 20 per cent to the lowest pensioner when he gets a 40 per cent raise, but it's not an equitable approach to give a 20 per cent raise to the lowest pensioner. &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Thank God, dear members of our Commission, heeded this warning, and the lowest pension has increased by 40 per cent, so it's 3500 instead of 3,000.&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Well, I'm not saying it's good enough. This raise is an equation in terms of a 40 per cent increase in inflation. But when the hunger limit was $6.391 -- Mr. Beko, you've been union president, come out here, come out here, tell me -- how will this pensioner live for $3,500 -- come out, brother, tell him about it, let him listen to his pension; he can't. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, Turkey is locked up for minimum wage... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One moment, please, Mr. President. Turkey is locked up for minimum wage...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0045par0238	It would be a shame if we spoke to my president.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0040par0239	You never gave it to me?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0045par0240	I never gave it to him.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0040par0241	Then let me finish it before I open it. For minimum wage, Turkey is looking at the gentleman's mouth, and we've let go of Nebati, and now we're looking at the gentleman's mouth. The minimum wage in this country is 6,391 plus 6 per cent, and any number the gentleman declares today is treason, exploitation of labor, cruelty and shame, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0045par0244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The first word on the first part of the proposal is from Ankara MP Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0046par0248	Mr. President, if there are a few words to be said about this bag of law, the pension salary of $3,500 is indeed the continuation of slavery in a situation where the poverty limit is 20,000 and the hunger limit is $6,391. I'm in a debt to talk about something in particular because today, outside of this law, there's going to be a holiday. A case that hasn't been illuminated for 30 years, and is actually wanted to be left unsupervised, the murder of Musa Anter, because on September 20th, the statute of limitations will expire. In fact, there is a murder committed by the hands of JITEM, with political merits, and therefore, in this case, the statute of limitations of TCK 77 is not required, but whenever a murder is committed by the hands of JITEM, the statute of limitations is imposed on us and we witness it. Public authorities are making a special effort in this case to ensure that the evidence doesn't reach the court. There is no progress in the case because the Justice Ministry has not responded to Abdulkadir Aygan. Now, as far as this case goes, I've filed eight motions, one research motion over the last year, and since these motions have come to this court, there are actually questions being asked in the case. Otherwise, there's really no progress being made in the case because there's no progress being made. At the budget talks in 2022, we asked why the Ministry was not doing its part to get statements of the defendants abroad, and I was in charge of that period's Minister of Justice Abdulhamit Gul, who said, "Am I in charge?" Now, then Minister of Justice Abdulhamit Gul, yes, you are responsible, and everyone who's been in charge for 30 years is responsible for this case and the lack of discovery of this murder, including Bekir Bozdağ, who served three times in these thirty years. Now, they don't answer questions, yes, what are the questions? It says: "There must be a statement from Abdulkadir Aygan. " The court even said: "We will go there and we will take his statement." They said, "No." So there's actually a murder that doesn't want to be illuminated. Who is Aygan? After he confessed, he worked as a civil servant for the TSK and the Gendarme Service. From 1991 to 2001, he served for ten years in Diyarbakır and Burdur Gendarme Chiefs of Staff, and resigned from his official post in 2001, and took refuge in Sweden. Diyarbakır 7. The Corps Military Court has a warrant for the arrest of Aygan, but do you know what the Home Office wrote about it? "Aygan is considered a martyr and the population record is closed," he said. What was he a martyr of, Aygan, really, what was he a martyr of? Then another truth came out: an identity was made for him by the name of Saint Turan. Now, these people who were asked to be extradited because of NATO negotiations, they have a Saint Turan in them. Is there really a Saint Turan? No, I don't. The real one is Abdulkadir Aygan, and he's not even wanted by that name, which means he's not asked to be extradited from Sweden. Yes, a very influential, very popular Kurdish intellectual, Moses Anter, was murdered on purpose, and this murder is symbolic in Turkey's history, just like Hrant Dink, just like Konca Kurish, just like the Tahir Messenger murders. This state tradition has been going on for years. Yes, I'm saying that all governments are responsible. We all actually have a responsibility to the families of all these people, especially the Anter family, who want to be left unsolved. Otherwise, democracy will never be achieved in this country, and there will never be any improvement in budgets like these budgets. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0047par0257	On behalf of the second speaker, Mr. Süçük MP, Mr. Ismail Sun. Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0048par0260	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf to discuss Law Proposal 346. I salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation watching us on the screens. Of course, Mr. President promised our officers in the 2018 general elections about this 3600, and so far, Mr. President has fulfilled everything he promised, and now he's doing it. Of course there are opposition parties here, we've already said that. They say that. True, if you look at it, the idea of combining the two sides of Istanbul was spoken a hundred years ago during Abdulhamit Khan's period, but it came to be the period of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. It's not important to talk about something, it's important to do it. Of course, here, in the 3600 additional indicators, Mr. President had made a promise to them, including nurses, religious officials, police officers and teachers, but in order to cover all our officers, this law has been extended to cover all of our officers, so that all of our officers may be affected in a positive way. In addition, 600 points have been added to the 3,600, and to everyone with additional indicators in previous staffs, as long as our teachers, religious officials, policemen, and health staff have graduated from university, and they have been given about 600 points for those who have no additional indicators. It was said that it would affect more pensions and pensions than salary. It has a very small amount of impact on salaries here, of course, but the main thing is, we're going to raise our officers' salary by about 40 percent starting July 1st. On the other hand, we also helped our security officers, our law enforcement officers, who graduated from high school and did not receive 3,600. One of the important things about this bill is that it concerns our pensioners. Now, we have 13.5 million pensioners. Of course, we're going to give you a salary increase due to inflation on our pensions, but despite this increase in salary, there were 1,200,000 people undering that 3,500 TL. We have drawn this limit, which is 3,000 in this law proposal, with our proposal, with our group, and with the proposal that we have submitted with the DP, to about 3.5 billion euros, and that will cost the budget approximately 3.5 billion. The heart wants us to give more, offer more opportunities to our pensioners, but we've always been there for our pensioners, and we'll try to be there for you from now on. Another arrangement is about student forgiveness. Here, of course, Garo Paylan said: "Ya, this student's pardon is not equal to you, you discriminate against some." Guys, we don't want people taking advantage of this pardon that's hurt people's conscience. If you say, "Who are they?" Friends, number one, for terrorism, manslaughter, torture, and sexual assault...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0049par0266	Education is a right, right. How do you block rights?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0048par0267	We don't want to take advantage of the person who was sexually assaulted and sentenced...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0049par0268	He'll take advantage of the training in prison. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0048par0269	On the other hand, we don't forgive those who have been punished for sexual abuse, drug manufacturing and trafficking. They're right here, we don't forgive them, and so...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0049par0270	So someone who's grounded can't go to school? Where do you put the right to study?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0048par0271	I mean, no, that's out of the question. On the other hand, friends, an important provision of this law is about notaries. Now, in previous arrangements, first-class notarists could be appointed to first-class notary. Thus, when they did not choose, they remained empty. What are we doing here, guys? So, of course, to serve our citizens, we're saying that we're going to advertise here twice, and if no one chooses here, then we're going to be able to be assigned here from first-class notaries, second-class, third-rate notaries. Here, we provide a convenience, and so we do whatever it takes to serve our citizens. Dear friends, of course the cost of this law is about -- of course, we're always with our citizens, our officers, our pensioners -- there's an addition to the budget, about 25, 30 billion dollars, but it's no problem. We're citizens, we're retired, we've always been there for them, and we'll always be there for them. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit02spe0050par0276	Talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0050par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 111st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0051par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0050par0003	We're not giving them a minute, and we've decided yesterday with the Deputy Directors of the Group.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0051par0004	Can I have a quick word?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0050par0005	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0051par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. The minimum wage was announced today, and it was just announced in the middle of a platform. The AKP's President says that the work of Turkish workers is growing. However, after the announcement, it turns out that our country is a country that betrays the labor of its employees. Unfortunately, there is a Turkey where those who don't work are paid three or five wages, and those who don't work are enriched by interfering with the market, as well as in money transfers, foreign currency manipulations. AKP supporters, contractors grow up with companies that receive tax incentives, tax pardons, tax exceptions. The working man's share is the amount of pay enough to survive. Inside this photo, the minimum wage increase is 30 percent. The minimum wage is $5,500.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0050par0009	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0051par0010	The minimum wage raise is $1,247, and the last minimum wage is under $900. Today, unfortunately, the raise for minimum wage workers, which constitute 60 per cent of Turkey's employment, has not been given again. We didn't give a raise under six months of inflation, and we didn't get inflation crushed. This increase does not have six months' life expectancy, a 25 per cent increase in a place where inflation is 73 per cent is to betray the sweats of millions of workers, and the inflation monster created by the AKP will continue to grow in this way. I'm saying we're on the side of the workers' rights. Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0050par0012	We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 346. Commission? He's in position. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in chapter one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. There are 2 motions on Article 1. I'm going to read the first motion that I'm going to process in the order of violation of the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the amendment to Article 1 of the Law Proposal 346 shall be changed to the amendment. Tulay Hatimlari Oruç Oya Ersoy Kemal Bulbül Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0052par0024	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0050par0025	It's Ağrı MP Abdullah Koç who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0053par0028	Mr. President, our dear people, I salute you. Now, the republic, which has left a hundred years behind, has so far imposed an understanding that ignores different identities, cultures, native languages and beliefs on the entire community and continues to impose. As a result of the last 20 years of law enforcement of AKP power, which has strayed from universal fundamental rights, society is experiencing the highest crisis in its history, the highest economic crisis in its history. The government, which lays the foundations of poverty, debt and deep crisis, follows policies not of labour and labour, but of capital, not of peace and peace, but of war and arms. Unfortunately, we face a power that doesn't hear millions of screams and screams of hunger. The best example of this in parliament is the last budget, which is called the budget and the adoption of 1 trillion 80m euros in this Parliament, which gives only 11% of education, 43 per cent to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and 31 per cent to the Ministry of Health and over 100 per cent to the defence industry and defence. At the same time, there are 3600 additional indicators that have been discussed with this existing law, especially when we look at the understanding of security policies that deserve 3,600 additional indicators to the governors and more law enforcement units, it may be worth stating that this present law offer is also a security law proposal. We want to explain here that the original budget should be intended for Law 657, of course for all public workers. We also have to state that this existing law proposal violates the principle of equality, which is the 10th article of the Constitution. Again, the minimum wage has just been set: 5,500, far below the hunger limit, and that's the limit of hunger for these workers, and we certainly don't accept that, dear friends. Despite all this waste, I'm also going to talk about an institution that's not seen in this new budget, and it's an important service. The costs of private education and rehabilitation centres are unfortunately very low and have to be severely damaged. These institutions, which weigh heavily on the social side and provide an important service, are facing a serious economic crisis in which disabled children and special needy individuals are educated. There are 550,000 children who are trained in this field. Again, we're talking about around 52,000 trained and trained instructors in this field. 3,500 institutions throughout Turkey serve in this area. For each child with special education, only $1,164 a month is earmarked. All services are provided free of charge by the institutions. When staff costs, fuel, and other expenses are covered, such important services are unable to maintain their services. Only 25 institutions serve in my constituency, Ağrı. Approximately 325 employees teach in this particular area of education, over 4,000 students. The demands of teachers who work in provinces such as pain are more and more rightly, and these demands are unfortunately not met. If no grants are made, these very important institutions will have to lock their doors. The request of the Federation of Special Education Associations is that the allowance each month be paid half as much as the minimum wage. We'd like to point out that this grant must be paid immediately. Let me tell you something else that's important. The pain is that Patnos State Hospital has a serious shortage of medical staff, no doctors, especially no obstetricians, only one person. Therefore, the public is seriously victimized. We demand that this deficiency be dealt with immediately, and I salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0054par0036	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law of State Officers and Law 375, we would like to submit and propose that the amendment of the Law Proposal, under Article 1 of the Law, be replaced with a new declaration. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Zeki Hakan Sıdalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0055par0045	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0054par0046	Iconian MP Fahrettin Yoshüç who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0056par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise on the first article of the bag law, the 3,600 additional indicators. You know, People's Unions Act No. 4688 says: "The economic and social rights of officers are concluded, discussed, connected at the collective agreement table." Unfortunately, our political authority has smuggled 3,600 additional indicators from trade unions, breaking the law. Now, this arrangement concerns 5,300,000 officers and pensioners, and we're going to get 3,600 additional indicators from all officers. But this arrangement is a real freak, because if they retire more than half of the officers, they only get $120 increase in pensions in July, but some of our officers get $1.250, 10 times the difference. Again, if they retire to some of our officers and more than 1.5 million of our officers in July, they'll only increase their pensions by 4,000 liras, but more than $50,000 to our officers who are 3,600 and above, that's one to ten! What kind of justice is that? You know, Necip Fazil used to say that nine stamps for one person, one stamp for nine, would not make such a division a wolf. Once you're fair, once you've done the right thing. More than half of our officers, our pensioners, will be victims. Don't you know that? If you didn't know that when you were doing it, if you had asked, we would have told you. Look, we'd say, if you'd given 40 points to the additional indicators, as you've just been told, what would happen if you'd given 40 points to all officers below 3,600 additional indicators, ma'am? It would be like: All officers would increase between 800 lira and $1,250, depending on the degree. Again, when they retire, do you know what every officer who gets a pension gets? It increased between 32,000 liras and 50,000 liras. Now, what justice are you talking about? Besides, this arrangement of yours... after 2008, you took all the officers into the government. With this arrangement, more than 1 million government officials, or 1.5 million contractors, who are employed after 2008, do not increase their pensions, only to their bonuses. What kind of system is this, what kind of app is this? If you'd asked us, we'd have said: "Give the government a raise like this, all officers, all pensioners will receive their wages fairly." Again, if you'd asked us, we'd have made another offer for the officers' additional payments based on retirement, give them justice." By God, we'd tell you three different ways, but don't you know that? Of course you do. You're looking at the officers with your eyes crossed. What did you do? You've made it impossible to get out. You've already dragged civil servants into all kinds of injustices, unlawful conduct for 20 years, you've given no limit to discrimination, your segregation spirit has been reflected here in this law. But don't worry, we're almost there, guys. We're almost there. We'll reform a new staff, bring justice, fix all the damage you've done. Officials in the state will be officers of the state, no party officers, there will be integrity among officials of the state, there will be justice, there will be law, there will be no bias.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0057par0053	We know about your merits.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0056par0054	We will question you about your injustices, your injustices, and your eating of your servants.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0057par0055	We know your integrity.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0056par0056	Now, when we come to power, we'll show you what we're doing, and you keep looking cross-eyed at the officer, the worker, the pensioner, and they'll look at you with their eyes crossed. Almost there, almost there! Bye-bye.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0058par0059	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 2 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and propose that the first amendment of Article No. 8/6/1949 of Article 5434 of the Law on Retirement of the Republic of Turkey to the First Amendment (b) in the following manner be changed in accordance with Article 8/6/1949 of the Law on State Officers' Law and Law 375. The highest state official salary (e.g., etc.) is gross in response to a sum of raises, compensations and grants such as the sum of payments; - In addition to 8400 and higher 255%, - In addition to 7800 (digital) - 215 percent of those between 8400 (haric), - In addition to 7000 (data) - 19% of those between 7800 (haric), - In addition to 5400 (indoctrination) - 165% of those among the 7000 (haric), - In addition to 3600 (ingenue) - 5400 (haric) to 145 percent, - In addition to 2800 (data) - 3600 (haric), 125 per cent of those included, - 95% of the others, The equivalent amount is subject to pensions and institutional compensation. Ayhan Erel Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Bedri Yaşar Fahrettin Yokşış Ümit White Smart Hakan Sıdlı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0059par0078	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0058par0079	Samsun MP Bedri Yaşar has asked about the motion.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0060par0081	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge on the 2nd Amendment of the State Officers Act and on the 2nd Amendment to certain Laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the state of our pensions is clear. Our pensioners are always welcome. They are our elders, who have contributed greatly to the production, employment, and development of this country in their time, and we can never pay for their rights. Dear lawmakers, you can't ignore these citizens because they've retired, they've been taken to their corners. You know better than we do today what our pensions are like today, you've made the last $2,500 minimum pension, and today our pensioners are having trouble giving their grandchildren holiday allowance, even visiting their homes. I'm Samsun MP, today Samsun-Itanbul ticket is $350, return 700 lira and go with his wife for $1,400.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0061par0084	You can't come back when you're gone. You can't, Mr. President, you're staying there.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0060par0085	Today's minimum wage has been set, $5,500, and you've made the lowest of $3,500. You tell your grandchildren to buy gifts for their children, and they have no luxury to go home to, nor to even visit. Our former retired citizens were at least able to buy a house with the pension they received from their neighbors and the few pennies they collected from their neighbors. He can't even get through his door and buy a room, let alone buy it today. The pensioners' situation is clear today. What are they doing? From morning till night in the queue. Well, do they deserve it? You know, we're talking about the welfare of our country, we're talking about the development of our country, we all know that people who have given 20 years and 30 years are still looking for a second job; it's a shame, it's a sin. Today, as a need to be a social state, there will be no problem if you spend as much money as you spend on guaranteed treasure bridges, as much as you spend on patient guarantees in city hospitals, as much as you spend on currency-protected deposits -- even 25% of these -- to improve pensions for pensioners. We think they deserve it a lot. Today, in particular, national income per person has dropped from $12,582 to $9,000, consumer inflation is 73.5 per cent, producer inflation is 132 per cent, hunger limit is $6,319. Today, minimum wage has been announced, $5,501. Your minimum pension is $3,500. So one month a year in Ramazan, you think they should spend the whole year fasting. Besides, I'm not talking about house rents; I'm not talking about electricity, natural gas, water bills. In the old days, when I was renting a house, none of this was ever looked at. The rent of the house is a thousand liras, it's two thousand liras; it's talked about, but today, unfortunately, we all see that electricity, water, gas prices are higher than rents, and we all know it. What we're suggesting is that at least this semester we've been waiting for the minimum wage and the employees to get an inflation raise, and we were hoping that, unfortunately, today, the mountain rat has given birth again, you said 25 percent. The money they get with 25 percent is $5,500. With minimum wage, there is no holiday visit, no shopping, no children, and no living under minimum conditions. In a country where the hunger limit is $6,400, you have to work miracles to live off $5,500 or $3,500. We want our citizens who have given 35 or 40 years to this state to at least live the rest of their lives in peace, health, health, pleasure, and a happy day for our citizens. We hope you raise their well-being, but that's what happens in 20 years. When we look at what you've done so far, I personally have no expectations that good things will happen next. The result is to go to the people, to the trunk, and I say we're almost there. I'm already congratulating everyone of our last conversation this semester, welcoming your grand delegation.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0062par0088	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the third article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On the basis of the 346 rankings of State Officers Act 346, and on the basis of the 1st amendment to the 375th amendment to the Act of Law, the 1st Amendment to the First Amendment of Article of Turkish Armed Forces (Turkish Armed Forces), the General Command and Coast Guard Command and the Security Service Class, the pension or low disability pension officer will also be paid by a monthly basis, along with the number of employees who have not earned the payment of office, along with their pensions, will also be paid by the same amount of each month. As part of this joke, those who benefit from additional payment cannot benefit from additional payment according to Article 81st provisions. We propose and supply to replace it as an additional payment. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu İstı Özcan Aygun Süleyman Bulbül Kani Beko Burcu İksal Murat Minister Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0063par0101	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0062par0102	It's İzmir MP Murat who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0064par0105	Mr. President, dear friends, there's a change in the Law of State Officers' Law, there's a change in the Law of Retirement; there's a lot of changes. There are regulations that increase additional indicators, there are compensation arrangements, and we see them as positive. We already have all the arrangements in our election declaration in 2018. We see that we are your guides as opponents. And we're glad that we're the reason you're doing the things we're going to do when we come to power, even if it's half-assed. Now, here's the third article I've talked about. In the first offer to offer this bag of law, there were police officers who could not benefit from just 3600 additional indicators, in addition to Article 85, on the Law of Retirement Number 5434. Graduated from high school and equal schools -- and graduates of secondary school are not included -- meanwhile -- was being paid €1,200 in compensation. So, even if there was a part of it, the victimhood would be eliminated. Our friends who offered this law, the Ministry officials, were making an additional provision for compensation in the law, Article 85. However, there was a change earlier in 2006 that included the 81st article. The same compensation for the change in 2006, we gave $100 compensation to national intelligence services, security services, Turkish Armed Forces, General Command, officers, police officers, veterans, police officers, veterans entitled to retirement, investigative titles in TSK, departmental and neighborhood guards at that time; we only applied a similar arrangement for the police, in the first part of the law. We, let me be clear with you, friends, this is wrong, this is missing. We went around to tell you about it because the 81st article covered everyone, including all the security services, and your arrangement only includes the police. As a result, we talked to the Commissioner, we talked to him about it -- we have to hand it over to Elitas. We told Elitas. You're right, the scope of this should cover all security services like the previous 81. He said, and that's how the motion came. Well, is that enough, fellas? That's not enough, it's an arrangement to save the day right now. Just as 100 liras in 2006 became stamps today, the 1,200 liras we gave today will be stamps tomorrow, my friends. You need to connect this to an additional indicator. What have we done as Republican People's Party? Look, in April we offered the law on this matter. We said, "Let's make an arrangement on the same 81st article." We said, "Let's put it in an additional indicator." We said, "There's a 200 lira difference between 6000 and 1,200 dollars, so when you give 6000 additional indicators, you're giving $1,400 to all security services. Guys, while we're working here, there's someone doing the hardest job in the world, and someone's got a lot of problems. It may not go beyond a numerical statistic for you. When they are martyrs, we shed tears together, but you don't shed tears. You say that the martyr shouldn't be buried behind his back. But this nation has burned tears, songs from behind the martyr's back; there's an Erzurum song: I've eliminated, eliminated, eliminated. I've been waiting for a canan baby in the mirror crib. I raised it, fed it, drafted it, She's gone, and she's not here, and she's calling it a cure. Our mothers burned the song from the back of our martyrs. Friends, let our children live in safety. There are those who risk their own children being orphaned, orphaned, this country's military, police, gendarmes, watchmen, MIT personnel, we can't pay them what little precious friends and rights we can. But, since we're making a change here, let's make this a proper change, so let's tie it to an additional indicator, so six months from inflation, let's not make it a stamp again, so when you change that coefficient, that $1,200 will change depending on it. That's our motion, and that's the right thing to do. Since we're all doing business together, we're doing it properly, so let's solve the problem once and for all. Let's keep this above politics. Let the honor of this work be yours; you do it, and we will support it, and we will all accept the 6,000 additional indicators, and this motion, dear friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0065par0117	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law of State Officers and the Law of 375, we would like to submit and propose that the amendment be changed under Article 3/3 of the Law Proposal. Ayhan Erel Fahrettin Yoşış Ayhan Altıntaş Zeki Hakan Sıdalı İmit White Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0066par0126	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0065par0127	Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş has asked about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0067par0130	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party Group on Article 3 of Law Proposal 346, and I salute the General Assembly. I celebrate our Maritime and Kabotaj Day, and I bless our marine martyrs. Today's martyred Marine Sergeant Serkan Taşcı, I offer my condolences to Allah, to his family, and to the Turkish nation. My dear friends, there is an additional payment of $1,200 per month to members of law enforcement agencies, which we believe is a positive change offer, which we support, but the proposal of the law, unfortunately, is not an offer that fully meets the need. Our senior lawmakers mentioned this, and I won't mention it again, but I'd like to point out that we're gathered here today in 2018 for the ruling party's 2018 general election commitment, which, in any case, you fulfill in 2022, and it's about to take effect in 2023. We have long followed your promise of 3600 as a good party, often brought it up in various ways, but each time the power refused. In fact, it's an important reference to our citizens, and it's a very specific way of showing your approach to your promises, so in short, you only remember your promises to the public before the election; it's obvious that you're giving an interesting way to reason with people's problems rather than to care about their livelihood. If we eat two kilos of meat a month under normal circumstances, we eat a pound. Instead of taking two pounds of tomatoes, we get two. You thought, "Well, you advised those who couldn't buy a pound of meat to slaughter a lamb, but when a citizen can't even buy a watermelon, you can't deny it anymore, because there's an economic crisis in the country. Despite these circumstances, we consider this proposal an important step. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as a lecturer, I'd like to continue with the university-related clauses. In my limited time, I will only dwell on the 29th article. Dear friends are the institution where college, education and research are intertwined, so it transports information, delivers it, but it produces information. In today's world, the best universities are the ones who produce the most information. How will this information be produced? Of course, with academic staff; in a sense, it's a race; the universities that are the best at this race are the ones who have the most valuable graduate programs, so the students of your master's and PhDs are critical to this goal. Advanced countries, especially the United States of America, accept the best students from all over the world, in addition to their own citizens. Post-doctoral researchers who have a PhD in this academic race are also important. They have an important function in reintegrating their graduate students into the research group, in directing their own research, and in writing more scientific articles. That's why they're always in good research groups. In Article 29 of the Law proposal, there is also an arrangement on this issue, but it is a process that goes backwards from the present state. It is not appropriate for post-doctoral researchers to be fully funded by the public budget; the ideal is to use their fees from research or return capital. The current legislation is the same, but since there's obviously not enough research budgets, it's considered a public source, but that's not the right approach. If we accept the clause, the chancellor, the dean, the head of the department, will be able to distribute these positions freely. At least some of the fee should have been given from research so that they could go to real research groups and support their research. He says we should do practices that would really support the development of our universities, celebrate the blessed Feast of Sacrifices of the Islamic world and of the Turkish nation, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0068par0138	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 6th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law on State Officers and Laws of 375 and the Amendment to the Amendment to the Constitution of 375, it is found in the 6th Article of the Law Proposal (1) of Cetvelin VII. We offer and propose that the SINIFI section be changed as follows. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel İsmail Konçuk Fahrettin Yokşış Ümit White Smart Hakan Sıdlı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0069par0152	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0068par0153	Adana MP Ismail Konçuk asking about the motion.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0070par0154	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, it's been about four and a half years since the promise of 3,600 indicators, a promise that's been kept even though it's late. First of all, I wish good luck to all professional members who will have 3600 indicators. However, there is a situation: the 3600 or additional indicator arrangement is a desirable arrangement that has been expected in the public for years. It's been four and a half years, but it's been rushed, so it's an arrangement that could disrupt the hierarchy in public. I assure you, as happy as it is, it is an arrangement that will cause serious anger to those who will make this arrangement. Now, what's the point of going to college, valued lawmakers? The person is finishing college, but many four-year-old faculty graduates have been left out of the 3,600 additional indicators. You can't explain it, it doesn't make sense. Sir, we have promised teachers, religious officials, law enforcement, health workers, we have no promises to others, but we give them 600 points. It is not possible to get away with it. So this arrangement concerns the current employees, but it's an arrangement that concerns all pensioners, and you're going to face very serious disappointments. Hopefully, from now on, the future power, the power of the good party, hopefully, this 3600 issue, and it will take steps that will root out the problem of the public regime, and I give good news to everyone from here. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Now, there is a serious inequality between Act 5434 and employees under Act 5510. First of all, this needs to be handled, it needs to be edited. We're saying the hierarchical structure is broken. Chiefs, chiefs working in public, there are 8,000 chiefs in Turkey, and when we evaluate them in the hierarchy, these are the people who are doing the important task, they insist on 3,600, and they deserve it. There are technicians, technicians, and they've joined the 2,800. Now, you have to be aware that you're not giving away anything plus 600. So plus 600, what does it do? When we think that the 100-point increase has increased by 19-plus dollars, there's a net increase of 117 lira, but our friends, the professional groups, here, will get an average raise of 1,300 euros; pensioners will get a raise. How are we gonna explain this to the others? Look, how could we fix this? We would have corrected it like this: Everyone who fell to the first degree would have received 3,600, and everyone who fell to the first degree would have been given 3600 additional indicators. Then we'd have announced to all of Turkey, to our sons, that there was a point to studying college, but you ignored it, too. For example, you increase the additional indicator of the president of presidential affairs, the highest civil servant, by 400 points, but it doesn't produce financial results. You know why? Some of the officers' pencils are being calculated through an extension of the president of presidential affairs, so don't let the money go, don't let the money go. You won't be able to explain it. This matter of indicators, because of your further injustices, because of the double standard practices, will be discussed more and more, I salute you all, and I celebrate our Memorial Day, and the feast of our holy nation, which we shall celebrate in the days to come. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0071par0162	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main Law on State Officers (2/4527) and the Amendment to Laws 375 shall be replaced by Article 6 of the Law Proposal (I). The head of the Community Housing Administration (D) and the release of the inscription (c) from the text, the head of the same department (c) of the disaster and emergency management, the chairman of the Community Housing Authority, to be added after the declaration, and the same ruler (VII). We offer and offer to change the chapter of SINIFI, as follows. Mustafa Elitaş Erkan Akçay Edıp Semih Yalçın Feti Yıldız Mehmet Doğan Kubat Sermet Atay İzzet Ulvi Yölter Asuman Erdoğan Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0072par0175	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0071par0176	No one wants to talk about the motion. The head of the Public Housing Administration and the additional indicators of personnel who are subject to the Security Services Class are intended to be redefined on the basis of the importance and responsibility of their mission. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the 6th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law of State Officers and the Law of 375, we propose and recommend that the amendment of the Amendment be changed under Article 8 of the Law Proposal. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Fahrettin Yoşış Hope White Smart Hakan Sadalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0073par0191	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0071par0192	Mersin MP Zeki Hakan Sıdlı asking about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0074par0195	Mr. President, the precious MPs, the Kabotaj Law, which took effect on 1 July 1926, are vital to our interests and rights of sovereignty in our blue land waters. On the 96th anniversary of this law on the development and nationalization of Turkish navigation, I congratulate all our sailors and our nation's Maritime and Cabotage Day. As Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has pointed out, we must think of marineism as the great national government of Turk, and we must succeed. We are also going through a process in which supply chains change direction in the seas. Today, when new addresses are sought for the production network, we can turn the global crisis into opportunity. When we look at the geostrategic position of our country and the route of trade routes, it's not a problem for us to be in the league of leaders in the sea trade. But we need to do it in a sustainable and environmental way, not in primitive ways. Today, the world is discussing the concepts of blue economies, or blue growth, and the purpose is to ensure sustainable growth in the blue economy. So we're talking about a model that will preserve ecosystems and biodiversity and improve the quality of water and, on the one hand, increase the economic prosperity of countries. You've been on your feet for years towards the green economy, and you've finally made it to the wagon. Our country doesn't deserve the same insensitivity in the blue economy at all. We have the potential to be the engine of the blue economy. One of our calls to power: At least don't waste that potential, make strategic plans quickly, start building and producing the necessary scientific and educational centers, and you'll see that the rest will come. The greatest proof of this is the knowledge and experience that our Turkish naval sector has had for centuries. Dear lawmakers, on the last day of the Fifth Legislature year, you deserve a thank you for finally fulfilling your promise of election years ago, even if it's only half-finished. I wish we could do the same for our pensioners, our young people, our workers, our farmers and the IITs, in the same budget that you raised two-thirds of the thank-you, we can't do it. In your 20 years of power, let alone the prosperity you have promised, the citizens lose what they have, even what they have. Although you still claim to be able to achieve your goals in 2023, in five months, which you haven't done in 20 years. Come on, let's remember what your 2023 targets were: inflation would fall into one house, and now it's running to three houses. Unemployment would be reduced to five percent, and it is now well above 10 percent. For $2 trillion in GDP, the world's top 10 economies were to be entered, and now we are not even in the first 20. The national income per person would be $25,000, and today you are satisfied with one third of it, but unfortunately you can't even get it. The population under the poverty limit would be reduced, and now half of the country lives below the poverty line, if it is called living. From the first year you announced your goals, the ministers arrived, the ministers left; most of them finished before the package was opened. Now with a new package, we live in a new Fertret era; it's called the New Economy Model. It's already cost our country $230 billion. We're dealing with a lack of administration that is trying to run the country's economy as an investment expert, which gives you a better investment than what you're going to make with money, whose name is not interestless, but uses the doors of interest-related gains to consume public resources, systemizing our future at the cost of destroying our future. In June, the poverty limit of a family of four was $20,818... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, sir.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0075par0202	We're not giving them time.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0074par0203	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0075par0204	That decision was made, yes.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0074par0205	Okay.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0075par0207	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are one motions on Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law of State Officers and the Law of 375 under the Law, we propose and propose the amendment of the Law Proposal under the 10th Amendment to Article 2914 to Article No. 2914 of Higher Education Staff Law, which is part of the Addicted Amendment to the Court of Higher Education. Mustafa Elitaş Mohammed Levent Bulbül Mehmet Kabbat Sheikhmus Dinçel Ramadan Can Fehmi Albay Özalan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0076par0218	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0075par0219	No one wants to talk about the motion, so I'm having them read the alibi. It is intended that the additional indicators of staff staff members serving on the professor's staff be adjusted in line with their duties and monthly levels. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 16th article, which I shall process in order of violation of the motions, which I shall read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 16th Amendment of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in 346 rows of State Officers Act and 375 Laws. With all due respect. The 1st joke of Article 16-5510 of Law No. 16-5510 shall be no less than the net amount of minimum fee, which shall be carried out under Article 554 of Law 8/2/2006, along with pensions and monthly payments from disability and old age insurance, according to the laws lifted by this Law or by this Law. The sum of payments from death insurance can't be less than the amount to be determined based on the share of the rights holders. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Inspiration Özcan Aygun Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0077par0241	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0075par0242	It's İzmir MP Kani Beko who wants to talk about the motion. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0078par0246	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. Since it's on the agenda, I'd like to start with the minimum wage: with the statement we've been given today, the minimum wage is $5,500, it's not possible to accept that number, these numbers are funny to us at a time when inflation is based on 70 per cent, even on the official figures of TİK. Besides, it's nothing to brag about, paying the difference in inflation to salaries. Why? Because I want to share with you an example of workers who work for minimum wage: their mandatory expenses: Kira, $4,000; electricity, $300; water, $200; transportation, $800; transportation, $400; kitchen, $2,000; education, 800 lira -- no health care, no social activity, no tea, no coffee -- when we look at the sum total of $8,500. What did the President give you? He gave me $5,500. For the record, the poverty line is over $20,000. Dear lawmakers, the minimum wage is below the age of starvation. A minimum wage raise should be at least 6,000 dollars. Otherwise, the workers will continue to starve. Those who work for minimum wage should also receive bonuses for a salary at the Festival of Sacrifices and Sugar. In order to protect minimum wage from increases and inflation, it must be implemented in the common mobile system, as in some countries in Europe. For the record, minimum wage is a matter of the country. Dear lawmakers, there are over 10 million unemployed in our country, and today women and young unemployment are at the highest levels in the country's history. Women's employment is getting smaller in public. In the first five months of this year, women's employment dropped by 18 per cent, according to ISKUR data. Among the OECD countries, unfortunately, our country is last in terms of women's employment. This shows the AKP government's view of the woman, and it is not possible to accept the situation. According to the ITUC report of the International Unions Confederacy, I want to share with you 10 of the worst working countries in the world: 1) Turkey, 2) Bangladesh, 3) Belarus, 4) Brazil, 5) Colombia, 6) Egypt, 7) Myanmar, 8) Philippines, Guatemala, 10) Eswatini. Before Law 5510 was issued in 2008, there was no lower pension than minimum wage. The pensioners today will receive $3,500, but you make your pension $3,500, but the hunger limit is $6,391. You've left millions of pensioners starving and miserable again. At this rate, the pensioners will continue to collect their Sunday leftovers when it gets dark. The minimum pension must be raised to minimum wage. Because of the difference in pensions set before and after 2000, the principle law must be removed from this place. Our millions of citizens who live in retirement are here today, but you've put a billion extra budgets in the palace, and unfortunately, you haven't even brought up those who live in retirement. Give the people their benefits without further harming them, and pay the pensioners their dues. 3600 additional indicators should be given to all public employees fairly. Justice is the bread of the people, the future of public employees. Finally, advisers working for the Turkish Grand National Assembly are not entitled to severance pay. It is a legal obligation to grant severance to personnel who cannot benefit from severance in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, an equal and fair working environment. I'm calling from here to the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: there is no doubt that the severance of every employee who works according to the Constitution and by law will be granted severance; this is their basic right. As I salute the assembly again with love and respect, I thank the President of Engin here again, bringing up an important issue of our fellow advisers at nearly 3,000 Turkish Grand National Assembly. Yes, and I agree with the Engin President, and I'm very, very concerned that advisors should also be given severance pay. Thank you all for listening to me again.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0079par0255	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0078par0256	Why don't you just admit it? There's nothing in here that can't be accepted.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0079par0257	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 16th Amendment to the Law of State Officers under the Law and the Amendment to the Constitution of 375. The agreement was changed from the net minimum fee specified for the year of the year of the year of the second amendment of Article 16-5510 in the first verse of Article 19 of the Law. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Fahrettin Yoğütş Zeki Hakan Sıdalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0080par0266	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0079par0267	Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel has asked about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0081par0270	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the High Turkish nation, the Supreme Turkish People, the Law on State Officers, and on behalf of the RSP party on the 16th Amendment to the Constitution of 375. I salute you all. It aims to increase the monthly minimum payment to our pensioners, pensioners, and rights holders, to $3,500 Turkish lira, which is estimated at $2,500 in the file. The problems of our retired citizens are an important part of economic life's problems. We have more than 13 million retired citizens, and it is one of the most important tasks of the social state to ensure that our retired citizens, who have spent most of their lives working and then have the right to retire, will achieve the standard of happiness, peace and economic prosperity in their old age. Our right to pensioners is not for welfare, but for years of their work. If we look at the conditions of life in a country economy where the hunger limit today is at 6,000 euros, from $55 to $25 in sugar, from $55 in meat, from $25 in bread, $5 in price, electricity, natural gas, tube gas... there's no need to count them, we don't think it's enough for our pensioners in an environment where there's so much cost of life. When we look to our neighbors who are retired to our left, does anyone see our citizen who gets his pension at the beginning of the month pick up his wife and go to the diner to eat at the beginning of a month? I didn't see it. Has anyone ever heard of our retired citizens going on vacation again? I didn't hear it. You know, Europe is jealous of us. When European citizens come to the most beautiful parts of Turkey and vacation, retired Turkish citizens long for their village, long for their grandson, can't go home. Because, because of the rise in fuel today, for example, a citizen from Erzincan, who lives in Istanbul, comes and goes to his hometown for at least 2,000 liras per two. It's unlikely that this citizen, who you're looking for, will be able to go home to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, Look, one of our citizens on social media wrote, "It's not a luxury, it's a human right for a person to feed three meals a year, to take a vacation once a year, not to sweat in the summer, not to get cold in the winter, to sit with friends, to drink tea, coffee, to take things over, and that's a human right. Let's not confuse savings with misery. He's right. If we want to save money, let's start with government vehicles, three to five paychecks from different places, and five contractors whose resources we've wasted on them, and let's not upset our citizens too much. Dear President, the precious MPs, the problem with the public's pot, the problem with the lack of meat, the point of grief in our country is painful. We've highlighted it over and over again. Again, our retirement citizens demand what is rightfully theirs, not early retirement. The ruling authorities, however, do not listen to the right cry of our brothers and sisters, who ignore our citizens. But these days will pass, in a timely or early election, we will bring our beautiful country to a blessed, peaceful, happy day, led by our President, Coral Akshener Ma'am. As our president-in-chief, Mr. Coral Akshener Ma'am, says, we will raise the lowest pensions in our power to minimum wage. We're going to brag about our 70-year-old pensioners who don't have to work, we're going to boast about the burden we've taken from the nation, we're going to write a brand-new history in the direction of our republical values in the power of the ICE Party, which will suit Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's vision of the great Turkey. I assure you, there are very few left, and the good ones are coming, and the good party says, "Here comes the coming, and I give you and the great Turkish nation the blessed Feast of Sacrifices."
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0082par0275	I submit the motion to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the 346 rankings in question be replaced in the form of ▪2,500, which is included in the 16th article of the Law Proposal. Tulay Hatimlari Oruç Oya Ersoy Kemal Bulbül Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0083par0284	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0082par0285	This is Istanbul MP Oya Ersoy asking for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0084par0287	Mr. President, DİSK-AR recently announced a report and released a five-year balance sheet of the presidential regime. What was this balance sheet: In these four years, the minimum wage has declined according to the poverty and hunger limit, the large number of jobless has increased by 2.6 million, the economy's trust is down. Now, by devalued Turkish lira, you cheapened labor, knowingly and willingly put pressure on wages, and created a regime that mobilized the work of 99 per cent for the benefit of 1 per cent. It's your own political and class choice. Now, what are you doing with this bill? For 20 years, yes, power has been repeating something he knows very well. It creates a bag, puts two or three displays in it, and there's a manipulation in it. What's in this law? There's no solution to the pensioner's problem in this law, I'll tell you that first. There's no increase in pensioners' holiday bonuses. There is no solution to the problem of the IITs, the problem of those who have been struggling with retirement for so many years. So, what is it? There's a total of $3,500 added to the minimum pension. Look, this is very important, and this is a thousand lira completion because of us, or because of the opposition, they came with $500. In terms of the hunger limit of $6,394, the poverty limit is $20,818, the minimum pension is never acceptable to be below the poverty line. Now they've been raised to $3,500 pensions. And what does that mean? This means that the prices are actually going to be $2,500, so every increase after today, all the increases, all the inflation differences and so on -- let's say that 20 percent has been announced, over $2,500 to be done, and that 20 percent of the $2,500 to be accounted for, and that every increase under 3,500 will be completed to 3,500, but there will be no increase over 3500,500 to go on for many years. Retired pensioners with the lowest pension will be sentenced to years under minimum wage, even behind that, below the age of starvation. Look, by 2008, the lower limit of pensions was the minimum wage, and there was no pension under the minimum wage. I'll give you 20 years of retirement in figures. In December 2002, the net minimum wage was 184 liras; the pensioner was a minimum of 257 liras, so the pension was 40 per cent more than the minimum salary. Today, $4,253 is minimum wage and the lowest pension is 2,500, so minimum wage is 40 percent less. What's happening here is that 2008, in particular in Turkey, is the year when pensions were systematically reduced, so the social security system began to market. And you dropped their pensions, you dropped their coefficients and so on, and you created something called a pensioner. It's a basic civil right to have social rights, especially when you complete a period of work and you retire, and then you have a human right to live up to our last breath, a right to health and a right to health without money, a basic civil right to have social rights. It's the government's job, and it's the government's job to provide it to all pensioners. Today, eight million pensioners are trying to live under the hunger line and the rest below the poverty line, most of them are working a second job, and they've lost their jobs during the crisis. Even this increase, when rent, electricity, water, gas bills can't pay any of this, is to do all the rates, not inflation, but on the edge of growth and poverty, knowing that a growing economic growth -- even added today -- and what needs to be done today -- is to increase poverty and poverty -- does not help the country. In parallel with minimum wage, all wages and pensions must be increased, and the minimum pension must be raised, and the EYT people must be granted pension. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0085par0294	I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... the matter is accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. There's a motion on the 20th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the 20th amendment of the Law Proposal in the following manner, in accordance with the Law on State Officers 346 rows, in some Laws and 375 Laws. With all due respect. The amendment to the 3rd,600), dated 26/1/2011 and issued in Article 8 of Article 4 of the Law on the Bank of Provinces of 6107, has been changed in the form of 4.200) Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Gökan Zeybek Inspiration Özcan Aygun Burcu Koksal Süleyman Nightingale Cavit Bee Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0086par0309	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0085par0310	Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0087par0313	Mr. President, you have promised 3600 additional indicators in the squares since the 2015 elections. Now we have an additional measurement waiting for millions of officers and civil servants to come to the House, but it's incomplete. The existing additional indicator system should be removed, bringing in a staffed and guaranteed public staff regime, but trying to bring solutions within the current system does not solve the problem, unfortunately. For example, 565 thousand public workers who have not graduated from college cannot benefit from this additional indicator. Again, the pension tie rate needs to be rearranged; former officials used to dream about what they would do after retirement, and now the officers are afraid of retiring because of the low percentage of pension bonds, because they know they can't get by when they retire. The pensioners are waiting for an adjustment. There's a gap between the retired in 2000 and the retired after 2008. Two million SGK pensioners retired before 2000, BUG-KUR pensioners were adopted in 2012, with an increase of around $350 per month, but on what grounds were pensioners not adopted? So, when they reacted to the situation, then Minister of Labour and Social Security Faruk Çelik promised that they would be taken into consideration, that there would be an arrangement for them, but ten years later, nothing was done. Our proposals were rejected by the AKP and the MPP vote. I'd like to see that law offer, if it had a policy that pensioners expect after 2000, but it doesn't. You said that over 500,000 city subcontractors, subcontractors, radiology imaging workers, rental car drivers, cafeteria workers, HBYS employees, lab workers, dialysis, physical treatment workers, contractors on the roads, sterilization and disinfecting workers, social facility workers, foundation staff, foundation staff, workers, 70 per cent disabled, and victims of the 4 December are unfortunately out of commission. We'd like them to have a staff in this arrangement, but they don't. Thirty-two thousand temporary workers who work at the Ministry of National Education and are unemployed as of June 15th are on hold. We've seen bread in the army, thanks to you, we've seen staff in the camp. We'd like to have those temps and all the other temps on staff with this arrangement. After the coup attempt on July 15, you expelled thousands of public employees without looking at them without looking at them as criminals or criminals. Some of them were not returned to their jobs, while others were not brought to trial, even though they had received a verdict of non-obtainment or acquittal. Now, how did you judge and dismiss the guilt of a man who has never been judged? And on what grounds do you not return an officer who has made a decision not to be followed or acquitted? As a lawyer, I can't fit your legal logic into any literature. Now, I wish there was a sentence in this law proposal for the extradition of public employees, who were expelled by the KHK, who had been acquitted or without a trial. And those who are old in retirement, whether the state has retired or not, if the private sector has not employed you as an old person, and those rights have been given to those of the IYT. Farmers, unfortunately, they're devastated. The mazota that the farmer used on his tractor says, "Let's get OTV and VAT up," but there's no offer for them from the AKP. For example, the cherry makers of the Sultandağı district of my beautiful hometown, Afyonkarahisar, are devastated. There's a 90 percent loss of efficiency this year, and if these manufacturers' debts are not delayed for a year without interest and the damages are not covered, we won't be able to find any cherries to export next year, unfortunately. But don't worry, the producers will laugh in the Republican People's Party's government.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0088par0319	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 22nd article, and I will act according to the order of violation of the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law of State Officers and Law 375, we would like to submit and propose that a amendment be made in accordance with Article 22 of the Law Proposal. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Fahrettin Yoğütş Zeki Hakan Sıdalı Ayhan Erel Umit Yasin Ozturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0089par0331	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0088par0332	It's Denizli MP Yasin Ozturk who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0090par0335	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are tired of the ruling party, and in a metal fatigue, they have no means to set foot on the street.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0091par0336	We're tired of working.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0090par0337	They've supposedly rested their metal fatigues, and now it's our citizens' turn. Soon, you, the power, the citizen, will rest in full, and then you will rest in the feast.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0091par0338	You haven't proven your maturity yet, anyway.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0090par0339	We're going round and round the streets where you can't step up. Let's tell you what we see: a citizen who is offended, a citizen who is angry, a citizen who is sad, regretful, and a citizen who is insecure. The citizen now sees that the king is naked, and despite the spinners, the baggers, and the feeding press, he is no longer afraid to shout out the truth. You've brought us a proposal of law, and as we're used to it, you've added a lot of irrelevant materials. It's a bag that you're putting on makeup to make up the demands we're making, and you're actually hiding their true intentions in between; it's a fancy sack on the outside. In this proposal, there is an arrangement for public personnel, such as 3600, which we insist upon, and there is also an arrangement to increase the pensions that we insist on, and there is also a college student pardon that we gave two days ago, which you did not accept. Is it possible for us to take a negative view of a law proposal for all of this? Of course not. But what did you do? Again, you've mixed mud in the milk, you've contaminated pure intent again. You've split up public personnel, you've made your equal among the equal, and you've secured the benefits of your dishonest staff, your three-to-five paid advisors, your high-level bureaucrats, who are ram to you. See, that's the 22nd article of this law proposal and all of its relevant materials right there. In the article, you have made arrangements for additional indicators of the presidential administration and members of the Turkish National Assembly's executive body. In Article 62 of the law proposal, they are granted a guarantee of duty in a privileged position in the event that the senior executives serving in the Turkish National Assembly will be removed from office. If the law proposal that we discussed were an unscheduled arrangement that arranged for all officers to reach the number of indicators they deserve, we might be able to agree to an arrangement in the Parliamentary administration, as it stands. However, our parliament does not only employ administrative staff; there is no regulation for those who have started work before 2012, from the staff of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey currently working in its unique and extremely difficult working environment. Even though they're in different departments and they're in the same business, there are people with different fees and rights. Isn't it a debt to all of our colleagues that we've served together to arrange for equal pay for employees who do the same job? We also have close-up employees, consultants, and staff staff who are employed in the position of assistant staff, stepkids of the House. Most of them are understaffed, contractual employees. If the MP's mission ends for any reason or is committed to, the MP will say goodbye. When he says goodbye, our friends are unemployed, and on top of that, unsecured. These friends are unable to receive unemployment benefits if they leave work because the Parliament does not invest unemployment allowance as an employer. These guys don't get severance if they quit, pensions if they retire. This kind of staffing practice is not available in any public institution outside the House. We've passed the public institution, and if a private sector employer does it, if an employee complains, we fine him as a government, and if he sues us, we take his compensation from the employer. Our House, which you have made a law factory, does not take into account the provisions of equality in the Constitution, nor does it take into account the rules of business, such as ILO. Even the President of our Parliament is referring to the errors, but there is a legal obstacle ahead of us. Is it so hard to overcome this obstacle to achieve business peace? Besides, we also find the names of some of our executive executives working for our executive agency on the boards of public economic initiatives. If a legal obstacle is being lifted to solidify the world of bi-paying bureaucrats, a change can be made easily, such as severance pay, but where is it? And that's the kind of bill that's ready to be completely unprepared, completely flashy, completely driven to the election, the anxiety of staying in power. Despite its shortcomings, this bill is an additional 3600 indicators to our students who are awaiting forgiveness... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...good luck to our officers who have suffered a significant increase in coefficient while waiting for their position, and to our pensioners who are living on $3,500 as we don't understand it.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0092par0349	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke (a) of Article 22 (a) of Law Proposal 346, which is in session, has been changed to the heads of the department (also referred to in the first joke) in the article "to be added and offered to the article after the declaration of Article 34. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Kayseri İstanbul Kırıkkale Asuman Erdogan Arife Polat Straight Mujahit Durmuoğlu Ankara Ankara Osmaniye Selim Gültekin Niğde Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0093par0356	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0092par0357	Anybody want to talk about the motion? No. Prior to the presidential government system, the heads of the presidential administration were equal to the head of the department, the head of the department, which was part of the department's department/mother and vice-service agency, and they were equal to the head of the agency, whose rights were remembered. Following the presidential government system, in line with the general regulations in the public office, the administration of the presidential organization has been removed and the agency's heads have been replaced. However, there has been a hesitation in implementing Article 375, which has been added to Article 34, which is added to Article 375 under the provisions of the Code of Law 703, because of the conflict of the declaration, and their rights are equal to the heads of the apartment. The hesitation in determining the rights of the office of president of the presidential office of operations with the Article 375 shall be resolved by replacing the terms of the "designations of the presidential office" to the head of the department (mother and deputy service unit) to the heads of the department (also referred to incumbent on Article 375) in Article 1 of Article 34. I submit the motion to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 22nd Amendment to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There's a directive on Article 23 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law of State Officers, we propose and recommend that amendments be made in Article 23 of the Law Order 375, and in accordance with Article 23 of the Law Order. Ayhan Erel Fahrettin Yoşüşı Zeki Hakan Sıdlı Umit White Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0094par0371	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0092par0372	This is Adana MP Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Çulhaoğlu.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0095par0375	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the opinion of our party group on Article 23 of Law Proposal 346, and I salute your delegation. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, added to the 375th Amendment by Article 666 under the Constitutional Court of Law, and added to Article 1 (Public Affairs Presidency of the Presidential Assembly of Turkey, and the additional compensation of the members of the Turkish National Assembly's executive body, are being redefined with additional indicators and severance of the authorities, and are equal to the executive rights of executives and other personnel, as well as regulatory and regulatory agencies, added to rule number 3 and auditing institutions under Section 5018. Now, my dear friends, the EC PARTY aims to use additional indicator numbers for its precedents in the event that Article 375 shall be higher in addition to the laws of staff or the amendment to this law. The proposal suggests an increase in the additional indicators of all employees. You're protecting our few top executives in parliament, but you're ignoring our workers who have worked for many years in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's a violation of the principle of equality by not giving a satisfactory increase in the additional indicators of our fellow employees who work day and night with us. And you are disputing among them, and you are disputing with them. The old indicators are already increasing in very high titles, and you don't raise the additional indicators of your contract counselors, who have worked with you, who have done a lot of work with you, and who have not been improved in a long time. If you read the content well, the senior executives, who are part of the Turkish National Assembly's Executive Service, are already securing the positions they will be appointed when they are dismissed. As I just said, high-level executives who serve the AK PARTY for many years are protected and protected, but other workers are not given anything. Obviously, this arrangement is an offer to the majority of the Parliament, which the government will lose. The ruling party is already making an arrangement that interferes with the next parliamentary chairman's appointments within the administrative agency. This substance, which is intended to be made for specific persons and delivered to the address, is nothing more than an abuse of the law enforcement authority. The subject of the wager is organised by political opinions, and it is extremely dangerous to remain a political tradition. In this regard, our motion to remove the clause from the proposal text has also been rejected by MPs of the Cumhur Alliance in the Commission. The government has made it clear by offering this law that the proposal is handing out an election bead to people close to it rather than to solve the problems of the parts it will affect. People's kids got 92 points and they didn't get an interview, but those with uncles from the AK PARTI who got 58 points and got the job -- let's just say -- no! Our nation's children are unhappy, they study for four years, they're registered at the unemployed house, and they're motorized because they can't find a job in major cities. The protection and protection of high-payment holders suits the AK PARTY. I repeat my request that thousands of members of the council and our fellow advisors not be victimized, and that they also be improved in their additional indicators. Yeah, we've got Eid Day ahead of us. Celebrating our nation's Eid Day, bowing to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit03spe0096par0385	I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0096par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 111th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 346. The commission is in place. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the 24th and 44th. On the second part of the proposal, Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli on behalf of the Good Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Cinisli.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0097par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. In my first speech, I included more political interpretations of the proposal of the law, and in my second speech, I was going to discuss more technical issues, but when I heard a few minutes ago about the minimum fee that Mr. President had announced, I unfortunately felt compelled to go back to politics again. In a country where the hunger limit is $6.391, I never found it appropriate to announce a minimum wage of $5,500 before the festival, and I'm sorry, and I resent it. As a good party, we feel that this price should not be less than $6,500, and we pledge to support it. Yes, and as far as we're concerned about this proposal of law, we see that the main motivation is actually 5.3 million people who might benefit from this bill. So rather than actually serving a nation, we're seeing these 5.3 million people and how many votes can be voted around them brought to the House. It's not wrong; it's politics, it's democracy, parties in democracies want to make more effort to get votes, of course, which is very true, but I wish it hadn't been done before the election, and if it had been done in time, people could feel that they were being served. Again, between the lines, during the proposal of the law, I had a very interesting and painful knowledge for me. I'd like to share this with our great Council and our beloved nation. You know, there's some robbery projects under the name of public-private co-operation. We call them robbery projects, and the shame of these heist projects is not only the robbery project, but the police of the state, the government ambulance, the state funeral vehicle, and it's not enough to pay for them; the fines, the punishments, the government's ambulance, and the state's funeral vehicle are also being operated on. It's a shame, it's unbecoming, it's an unsavory take on the subject of the Turkish state. I haven't already associated this with a state mind, I've associated it with a classic AK PARTY mind; it suits them. The last time I spoke to him, there was a conflict in the study community. I had finished it. These additional indicators have been introduced into the control community, which is the community that has taken on a very important role in our government. The government's audits, as well as engineers, have not been able to benefit from the additional indicators, and there are a lot of different sections that can't benefit from this additional indicator, not just from them; tax inspectors, tax collectors, tax collectors, and they're also very frustrated by their motivations. There's a note the control community sent me, and it's my duty to read it. They're talking about three important principles, three important principles that have been broken. The first is that the test function is a whole. This integrity is abandoned in the name of certain institutions and titles. Second, the principle of equal wages is being undermined. Third, they say there will be a serious loss of dissolution, unrest, and motivation among the body parts. For this reason, the internal auditors in the public -- who are in charge of the highest management of the institution of which they belong -- the minister, the principal, the chief -- and the inspectors in other institutions -- are obliged to improve in the same places. They sent me a note, saying, "This is why I wanted to share this with our beloved nation and our great Assembly." With an additional motion, we would only be pleased if we could correct the situation of supervisors, inspectors, engineers, tax inspectors. Yeah, well, in law enforcement, you know, it's the most prominent additional indicators. The 3600 additional indicator arrangements, which the public has been waiting for for for a long time, were no doubt necessary, and even very late in making these arrangements, we always say so, but this delayed arrangement is very incomplete. The additional indicators involved in the proposal are of virtually no use to public employees who are under 3600. It saddens us that we work here together, that even our members of the House, who work for us, can't benefit from these additional indicators. This additional indicator that corrupts public peace and the peace of public employees and disrupts the hierarchy is the most important indication of how quickly and carelessly prepared the law has been. We think that serious public personnel reform is essential, and they need to be re-examined. Their minimum pension is extremely painful and embarrassing. From $2,500 to $3,000, please, the salary raised to an increase in our printing has been increased to $3,500. And here's our offer, as much as the minimum wage; it shouldn't be any lower than that. Thus, pensions must be at least as high as minimum wage. We're dealing with a law proposal that's going to hit the notary establishment with a major blow, a major order, actually, as Congress. A proposal, which had been forced to withdraw from the Justice Commission a while ago, was again brought to the Plan and Budget Commission with a large command, with the mind of the EC PARTY. We didn't even know that this offer was withdrawn from the Justice Commission when we left the Plan and Budget Commission -- and I mentioned it in my previous speech -- without having any information, without reading it properly for lack of time. During the talks there, we stumbled upon the fact that this proposal had been withdrawn from the Justice Commission and that it should not have come before a year had passed, even though it was not in our field of expertise and unfortunately, it did. We're talking about an offer made for 178 first-class notary blanks. We've learned that if these 178 non-empty notary notaries were to be given these 178 notary notarys, all hierarchys, customs, notaryism by breaking the rules, rather than those notary notarys who were to be appointed, the address of these 178 empty notary notaries would actually be solved, but the issue here is not the notaryism, but the old institution of the EC PARTI. AK PARTI is an enemy of the root, the old institution is not in the country, and the state's nails are being removed one by one, I'm afraid. The most important, the greatest example, you know, is the State Planning Agency. We have a KGF issue; the Loan Guarantee Fund is being increased by $50 billion. Now what is this diet, what is this sauerkraut? Because a little while ago, a decision was made about the BDDK. The decision on the BDK is aimed at narrowing the money enlargement, while this decision suddenly involves increasing and supporting money expansion. We're sure it'll have a terrible inflationist effect. There's no way to figure out if there's a brake mechanism running somewhere when you step on it. It's also a question of who's going to benefit from it. And now we have serious doubts about the AK PARTY. We suspect that these 50 billion dollars of the Credit Guarantee Fund will be distributed with fairness. There's a privilege given to TOGG (Togg) about electric vehicles. Before that, we passed a law on TOGG. I think TOGG is very valuable, of course, very important; it's our country's gain, but not just to think of it as TOGG, I think we need to take measures to expand this market, to support this market. I don't have much time, so I'm gonna have to pick up the pace. We also see some arrangements for the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Frankly, I'm a little skeptical about the arrangements for the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Here, I, a few years ago, in a research motion that I gave you, I explained with documents how the Ministry of Culture and Tourism favours a foreign consulting firm. Just days after Mr. Secretary's own company became the Minister's advisor company, and the Minister's brain company, I reported how ill-advised it is to appoint an employee as the general manager, and I asked the Tourism Ministry's Frankfurt branch why a large amount of money -- I can't remember -- was paid to this company because we didn't have one, unfortunately, a dissatisfactory response was rejected here. Yeah, we've been looking for victims of EYT in this offer. We also propose that the people of EYT will find a solution, no matter what, for the election, very soon. At the end of my words -- we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the great victory of August 30th -- and I wanted to celebrate the 100th year under this great roof before our coven was closed, and we all celebrate the 30th August Victory Day. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, I ask for God's mercy. By the way, again, I wish all lawmakers, members of Parliament, and happy holidays to you next week. Hopefully, in October, without incident, we'll continue our work together in the House. I salute you, sir.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0098par0025	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İzmir MP Tamer Osmanakaoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Osmanakaoğlu.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0099par0028	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group to discuss the second chapter of Law Proposal 346. I hereby salute you and the millions of our citizens, the great Turkish nation, who are waiting for this bill to become law in our great Parliament. The whole world is going through a difficult time, even powerful countries are struggling with serious economic depressions. On the one hand, the recession of the epidemic, followed by the war on Russia-Ukraine, and the uncertainty caused by Western countries who struggled to continue this war, has also resulted in the exponential increase of human suffering. We must admit that Turkey is at the top of the most affected countries in the process. But we still have to admit that even in this incident, it's almost like an oasis in the region of Turkey. Despite all the attacks and sieges on our economy, a country that has not given up its national ideals should be proud of all of us. Despite trying to gain political gain by making a mountain of fleas, Turkey should be the source of everyone's pride, even the international organisations accept the determination to grow. Despite all the pressure and international conspiracies, Turkey, a fountain of hope for other nations whose rights are not restored and whose rights have been tried, should be a gem to all of us. The national sense of history that we built our state upon commands all of us. He puts the responsibility of taking care of our existence and our destiny together on our backs. This is our Veteran Assembly, the roof that has carried out the need of this sense of responsibility in the last century. Since the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Turkish nation has done serious work on many issues that could address its problems, address its problems, and respond to its needs. This blessed roof, which has essentially taken power and power from the Turkish nation, is the voice of our nation today as it was yesterday, using the power of our nation's will for the welfare of our nation. Following the busy hours of the Turkish Grand National Assembly Plan and Budget Commission, this bill, which has come to our General Assembly today, has been given the rights that many of our citizens have been expecting for years, improvements in their rights. Under the amendment to Higher Education Law 2547, students are granted the right to continue their education, even though they have been cut off from the higher education institutions within the scope of the law, although their registration has been denied. It will reduce both the use of illegal electricity and water, and due to its current circumstances, our citizens' partial shortages have been removed, with construction licenses being issued and construction completed within this plan but not allowed to use them temporarily. For our government, improvements are made in the duties of our superiors, who are always willing to make sacrifices for our government, who have always fulfilled their diplomatic mission in the country with their merits and licenses. In particular, Seljuklu and the Ottoman era, our thousands of years of state tradition has been thinly narrowed down and has also been fulfilled the need for our hierarchical structure, which has been presented to this day. The criteria, such as the position of our public officials, the framework of their responsibilities, and the importance of their duties, are reorganised by the designated additional indicator system. In this regard, additional indicators of all of our teachers, policemen, health workers, religious staff, and public servants in the class of auxiliary services have been upgraded. In addition, the additional indicators of our terror-fighting heroes, our veteran gendarmes, and our special sergeants have been raised to 3,600. Our pensions have also been raised to $3,500 a minimum pension that has not been forgotten. On this occasion, I would like to offer my best wishes to the millions of citizens who have been watching over this arrangement. It is important to say that our government has always listened to the voice of our citizens and has taken serious steps to ensure that our citizens do not suffer any harm. As a result of the assessment of the economy as a whole, our government has not violated or violated the rights of the employer or employee, nor has it ever failed our nation's trust in itself. Today, we have no doubt that he will provide the services of our nation with the most effective means available to him. Dear Mr. President, the struggle in regulations and other areas is the result of the determination to make more of us, the spirit of unity against the mufits, the hope that will illuminate even the world of the dark ones. There is no doubt that further steps will be taken to reach the future that we have built, because our ears will be in the voice of our nation, and our eyes will be in their demands. It should not be forgotten that Turkey is determined to walk in its goals; it is also aware that it is a futile prospect to expect solutions from those who make crossword puzzles with blood running all over them, in other words from the perpetrators of problems. Knowing who are the creators of regional and global allocation, it has an undisputed ability to grasp the purpose of those who seek to understand the cause of those who are the fountains of life, from polarization, from hostility, from veiled operations. Turkey's nation is ready for the birth of the Turkish century in the painful period. As our leader, Mr. State Gardener Bey, stated, the Cumhur Alliance will protect Turkey from evil eyes, evil words, deadly obstacles, dark intentions, and chaos from its triggers, one and all futures with its nation. No one's breath is going to catch up with this building move, this dignity of will. We will strive, we will strive, we will call, we will overflow, we will flood, We will persevere, We will endure, We will struggle, We will fight, We will succeed. (MHP and AK PARTY) On the 100th anniversary of our Republic, we will all sign a new victory for the Turkish nation. Our cause is to dominate the world and make its architect a Turkish nation. With these thoughts and feelings, the law wishes us well, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0100par0040	Thank you. İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0101par0044	Mr. President, Dear Regents, I salute you all. Now, of course, it's a bag of law proposals, and there's a lot of stuff in it. In the second chapter, where I'm going to talk about some of the items, some of the items suggest some punishment measures related to the Tax Usul Law, some of which are actually meaningful, and some of which, to be honest, we don't fully understand. But I think that the main ingredient in this chapter is the material related to the higher education board, the NGO. Therefore, I will devote my speech to more NGO-related substances. Now, dear friends, of course, the Speakers of the Justice and Development Party, or the MPs, when they take a pledge, they get a reference point in 2002 about their term, and look, that's how we were in 2002, and that's what we are now. And the economy is saying something like that, and they're very happy about that, and they're actually doing that very often, Mr. President does that, too. In fact, I would like to take you to a date before 2002, where I would like to have a reference point for that period again. Dear friends, you promised this nation that the Higher Education Board would be removed, before 2002, you did it; you did it, you did it, you suggested it to the entire nation -- you know, in 1980, the SEC Law came out, and you suggested that you remove an institution that has had an incredible negative impact on higher education until you were in power. It's in my notes, for example -- I don't know -- in 2002, in your program, you clearly said that universities will be led by an autonomous, responsible, and transparent understanding of governance. You said that a structure that determines standards should be co-ordinated. You said that it has to be co-ordinated. These are good, and we're still saying these things, but you guys forgot them. Now, the last thing that came to my attention was that before the 2011 elections, you said, "We're going to organize the structure of the NGO with the new Constitution. You didn't do it." You said in 2018, you said: "We will draft the law of choice. You didn't do it, and now you've come to us, so you're so centralized, so cumbersome, you're still in an effort to make the YOK education more central under the leadership of a president, in line with your stance, sir, in line with your whole philosophically-wise position, that you're still trying to make it more centralized. To tell you the truth, you still don't understand that this effort is of no use, that it's of no use, that you're actually destroying university autonomy, freedom of science in Turkey. To be honest with you today, colleges don't even really have the qualities of being a university, except for a couple of old colleges, which you did, and that's the DOC. You may be well-intentioned, but it's come to a point where you're actually in an application that destroys the entire administrative and financial autonomy of universities and you want to continue. Now, when we come to these materials, such as the 31st article, you say it's related to the AR-GE. Now, if you have an air like that, we're going to invest in research development, we're going to encourage research development. It's a little bit late, but it's still not bad as intent. Well, when we look at what you're going to do, sir, you're saying that some post-doctoral studies that have been paid by return capital have to be resolved in a special way, and you're saying that they need to be paid in private budget, because it turns out that the return capital is not enough, depending on the return capital, you've already made a suggestion to continue the activities of these employees -- the research workers -- but it's not working -- and since it's not working, it seems that you're saying that some research projects with the SEC's approval can be used, and you're doing well. When we come to Article 32, such friends have a very serious problem: Today, two types of researchers are received at universities. One of them -- again, in terms of the ECHR Law -- is given a position in the PhD process of the 50/d (d) joke, which is called the 50th article, but as soon as the doctor is finished, the staff is gone, so the person is out of work. And then there's 33/a, 33/a a a little bit more flexible, which can be continued three more years as a research worker, with the approval of the university chancellor and so on. Dear friends, now, let's extend it another year here. You said you've done six months before, you've done it for a year, maybe even another year. But what's the point, dear friends? What is the meaning and value of Article 50/D? So our attitude, to be honest, is to get a research worker at universities with 33/a. So after he finishes his PhD, he needs to continue to be a part of the university for at least three years. Why? There's a very simple reason, dear friends, is that college education goes on tradition, not with the chain of command, but with more informational relationships, the teacher-assistant relationship is very valuable in that way. In terms of people who study science in universities, you have to bring that kind of flexibility. But again, as I said, the law of the RDC has come to a structure that determines exactly who, almost how to get an assistant from Ankara. There's another item, Article 33, which says: "Let's encourage foreign researchers. " Well, do it. But you're looking at it, how do you do it? Sir, you're saying that as a research officer for a year, or as a professional project, foreigners can also work on some research projects by applying for a project. I swear, I mean, it's a very self-inflicted substance, because who will come from abroad and who will come and work in your love, in a country so restricted by freedom of thought? There's another item, an important item, and that's item 34. Now, as far as I know, before 2019, those who had graduated from law schools had not been given an entrance exam to their professions, or there was no test that we could call an administrative judicial examination, which was done after 2019, as far as I know, in the past. But now, you have brought something that is a student who has studied for three years before 2019, a student who has studied for three years, sir, who has applied to a four-year school when he applied for a vertical transition, which is, if he graduates from 2019, we don't need to take exams. So there's no need to take the entrance exam to the legal professions, the entrance exam to the administrative judicial body. Dear friends, for God's sake, people who've had a master's degree, three years of training, naturally didn't get into law school, but even if they did get into a number of schools like that, their levels are obviously not as high as those who graduated from law school, so I think that's a bad decision. Of course, I left out one item that mattered, which is about student forgiveness; there's a lot to be said about student forgiveness, but I'm out of time, so let me just stop here. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0102par0055	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Süleyman Girgin. Here you go, Mr. Girgin.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0103par0058	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, our country is in a deep economic crisis, and there's no need to explain it in numbers. Let's take a cab from here, ask the chauffeur friends about the tradesman's situation and talk about how the citizen is doing. Let's go to the coffee shop, ask about the pensioner, tell them about the painting they saw when they went to market in the last six months. The government says, "Let's go to sleep." The citizen says, "Let's wake up from this nightmare as soon as possible." The agenda of the street, the cost of life, the livelihood and unemployment. You can't come up with partial corrections in additional indicators, raising the lower limit of pensions from $2,500 -- another £1,000 -- to $3,500 -- as our President Kemal Kilicdaroglu has repeatedly expressed. If you're assuming a pensioner can live off $3,500, you're completely off the public agenda. While pensioners from other countries tour the world, our pensioners wait in the bread line. Don't you have a bad conscience? The salaries will continue to melt like snowflakes unless the esteemed lawmakers focus on the main causes that are disrupting our economy. Inflation, inflation, inflation... that's the main problem we have to solve. You trashed the budget, people's wallets went up in smoke. You're the one who gave 15 percent of the budget to the interest lobby. As for the farmer, as for the worker, as for the tradesman, there's no production, but for interest, there's plenty. And what you're bringing in is just a covert interest increase. You're doing 40 flips so you don't have to call the interest increase you're trying to get. What's the motive? Well, why don't you say "Nas" when you're getting interest from students who are taking loans from the Credit Homes Association? Why don't you say, "There's nas" when the loans to the banks are being paid? What's the difference between electricity and gas bills being paid when they're late and not interest? Why do you make fun of people's minds? Dear MPs, Turkey is facing the harshest poverty attack in the history of the republic. Let's see how the value produced in the country after 2019 is shared between a handful of investors and millions of workers. The employee's share went from 31 per cent to 26 per cent, while the capital's share went from 56 per cent to 64 per cent. It is the political power that is responsible for its labour regime that makes income injustice a rule. We are going through a very sharp process in which workers quickly become poor, middle class melts into the circle of poverty, the rich add money to their money, and in the name of the so-called fight against interest, those who actually live on interest are overcome. Dear friends, the bitter truth that we must first settle in this country is that according to Turkish-HD, the hunger limit of a family of four has risen to $6,400, and the poverty limit has risen to $20,818. With the newly announced number in this exploitation scheme, he can only be poor if he receives four times the minimum wage. We don't have a single citizen who's not affected by this painful truth. The capital power found in the AKP has created a thornless rose garden for those who feed on public resources being exploited by the attack on the freedom of workers, by the security of working life, by the attack on organizational freedom of workers, and by the exploitation of public resources, and by interest lobbys. We are clear: A minimum wage under $6.391 is persecution, injustice, extortion of rights, theft of labor. But we will surely change the order of the palace that oppressed the worker. Dear lawmakers, the one-man regime survives by plundering all the laws, foundations of institutions, democratic culture. One of our disabled institutions is the minimum wage detection commission. Under the law, minimum wage must be reached by the Commission. This Commission consists of five government representatives, five employee representatives, five employer representatives. The Commission makes a decision considering economic developments, price changes, prices increases, cost of living, living conditions, and explains the decision according to Article 9 of the regulation. Is that how the process works? Yesterday, the minimum wage commission was convened, but no decision was reached. The President declares the minimum fee of 5,500 lira as a Commission decision. It's a lawlessness that leaves the minimum wage detection commission intact, an attack on our leftover democracy. The president has signed a political greed by showing his ability to overcome even his powers, making this decision that concerns millions of working families alone. And I want to emphasize that the average minimum wage in 2022 is $4,877. Dear lawmakers, if the current wage increases, inflation will increase. It means that the workers will starve. It's not three to five cents in the pocket of a laborer in this country who turns on inflation. The father who can't get the inflation for his baby, the father who can't get the diapers, cheese for his kid, the farmer who doesn't pick up his crop in the field because he doesn't have any money, the people who can't pay their bills on his pension, the IIT (YT) people who haven't been able to find work for months, our workers who have been fired because they're unionists; the chief economist's reason, inflation turns on the results. Dear lawmakers, it's not about how much the minimum wage increases, but whether the minimum wage increase has helped the worker to buy more milk for the child today in terms of living conditions, pay his rent comfortably, open natural gas without fear. The citizen looked for prices with wax when the minimum wage was $2,800, and you spooned them and you scooped them back. You pretend to increase the income of the citizen and take it back with a raise before you even get it in your pocket, so the minimum wage is not a raise. For once, stop saying what you're doing. You're simply returning the first six months of inflation difference from laborers, unions and opposition, and you're not giving them a raise. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is our promise to our working people: that we will now make the minimum wage, the largest collective contract in this country, an average wage, in the form of a real collective contract. We'll include all confederations equally in the process, give workers the right to strike at minimum wage. The minimum wage shall be no more for the workers; but let him come to work the next day. We shall take away his wages. We're going to tear up the minimum wage injustice that's been signed in this looting scheme. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, after the first meeting of the minimum wage detection commission, Labour and Social Security Minister Vedat Bilgin said we should probably forget that he was responsible for working life and fight the mentality that restricts freedom of organization. I'm calling to him from here, Mr. Secretary, if you're sincere, step forward to make public employment, which has reached a total of 5 million, equipped with rights and organised. What do you expect to give public workers the right to strike? Why don't you give away the staff rights of subcontractors asking for staff from municipalities to Highways, National Education to the Ministry of Health and Special Security? Don't you know that the right to a real union is the guarantee of a guaranteed working environment for the right to a collective contract? Why don't you do your part on this? Don't be a porter, open up the barriers to unionization. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0104par0072	On behalf of Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş on the second part of the proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0105par0075	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the Law Proposal 346 rows, and I salute the General Assembly. The thing that separates the university from the educational institution is that it also studies as well as studies. Today, this function is largely performed with graduate programmes. Hence, graduate students and post-doctoral researchers in the programmes are very important. After a student has received a doctorate, he becomes a researcher or academic at another university. People who get their Ph.D.s at the good universities of the world can't just be teachers at their own university. Why is that? Because it is encouraged to consult with scientists at other universities on the same subject, to do scientific studies, to enter other environments, and therefore to develop the horizon. Of course, the doctorate who grows up to do that can work in other institutions, and is also tried elsewhere. So it's also a mechanism that encourages high quality of doctoral education. Therefore, the extension of the contracts of researchers in Article 30 seems to be in good faith, but in reality it harms a doctorate researcher. Because in that year, a year after a doctor, if the horizon doesn't open, he can't invest enough for his future, he's stuck on the same subject. However, if it goes to another environment, it will be more useful for its horizon to open up, and it is encouraged to be in different environments in the early stages of the academic career. After becoming a teacher, he is expected to build and root his group and laboratory. Of course, with scientific conferences and temporary visits, it is possible that he will work with other similar groups around the world and participate in international projects. Now, there's also a matter of pardon law passed in Article 33. I'm the opposition. Of course, it's unthinkable that the opposition would be against the law of forgiveness, but I think that these constant pardons have corrupted the system a little bit in Turkey. So there's a problem with pardons. Besides, how are you going to do that at foundation colleges? I mean, it's a little more complicated than that, especially when you say, "He can go to another college." You know, one division doesn't have one base score, four base points; 100 percent scholarship, 75 percent scholarship, 50 percent scholarship, 25 percent scholarship; they all have separate base points. That's a lot of trouble with practice. There's also the risk of rapidly aging information on some issues, due to fast-growing technology. How are you going to give a person a PhD in computer space to a person who's been on a break for 20 years? If you look at the progress in the computer field over the last 20 years, the information there would be very old. Our goal is not to get our people a degree, but to get them a degree as soon as possible. If you call it a populist approach, you save today, but you raise a lot of unqualified diplomas, so you degenerate the system even more. When I was young, only Ankara Fen High School had 96 most successful students in all of Turkey; they were academically successful in that environment because they were already highly elected students. The secret of success was that the ministers and bureaucrats who thought that the name was only the high school, immediately opened science high schools everywhere, corrupting the system. A similar situation took place in the upper secondary schools of Asia Minor, a.k.a. In short, we haven't worked on education in years, so we're looking at how to get votes out of education. We've finally got a Minister of National Education who's working on making cheap bread instead of education. In short, there's no new approach to this bill we're going to accept, and I apologize to the young people we've deprived of qualified education. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0106par0082	The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to vote separately after I do the motion procedures on those substances, if there are any items in the second section. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are one motions on the 25th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 25 of the Law Against the Act of State Officers 346 and 375 under the Law. The letter was changed in the form of written guarantees on Article 25-6183 in the second verse of Article 85 of the Law. Inspired by Özcan Aygun Süleyman Bulbül Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Burcu Koksal Kani Beko Ömer Fethi Gürer Cavit Bee Emine Gülizar Emecan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0107par0096	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0106par0097	İstanbul MP Emine Gülizar Emecan has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emecan.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0108par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, today we are discussing a 55-point bag of law, including arrangements for 3600 additional indicators for public personnel. This arrangement you have brought -- unfortunately, you have brought these regulations without reforming the public staff regime, as we have stated in the Commission -- is in no way sufficient. In fact, we're going to see a number of consequences that undermine the principle of justice and equality, all of which we're going to see together in the coming process, about the rights given to our public staff. Now, dear friends, because of this economic crisis that you've dragged the country into... our working parts, the working people, the pensioners, the tradespeople -- everyone has a serious economic crisis inside themselves. Increased inflation, food prices, energy prices, rents, yeah, they're in a panic now because of high-rent rents, unfortunately, they can't get along. And even now the problem has reached people's pots, down to their pots, and we're talking about the kitchen and the pot. Now, dear friends, I'd like to move from here to minimum wage. The minimum wage has been discussed in the highest way in Turkey because it concerns a large number of people. Today, 10 million people work for minimum wage in Turkey. So what's the word for "asgari"? The lowest. The minimum wage now covers about 50 percent of the taxpayers. You sentenced half the people working in Turkey to a minimum wage, minimum wage, dear friends, to a conviction. (HlP and PlP rows) We're talking about the minimum wage now, and I said 50/100, let's compare it to the countries of the European Union right now: the average number of minimum wage workers in the European Union is around 4-5 per cent. Where's 50%, where's 4-5 percent? Now, employees of the country's growth and national revenues produced should get a cut, but in our country, it's going down and down, and our people are getting poorer and poorer. The president announced the minimum wage hike today: 5,500 lira. What are we gonna do, be happy about this? I'll go back to the bag of law. The bag that was brought in was raised to $2,500,3000, which was still the lowest pension in the law. With our criticism and warnings on the commission, 3,000 motions have been made. But is the minimum wage enough and that fee? Not enough, dear friends, not enough. Why isn't it enough? Because we've been talking about hunger and poverty in this country for a long time. We're talking about the price now on the border of hunger and poverty. Many problems in the country have begun to fall behind in the economic problem of hunger. People are now busy trying to make a living. Look, about the poverty and hunger limit, I especially want to talk about the Turkish-İSK newsletter. You know why? Many of our fellow deputies, as you know from this bulletin, are quoting, sharing data. Because he's doing what TÜRK-İSK isn't doing. He's doing research that TİK hasn't done, and he's informing the public. In fact, we should be thanking Turkish-HIS in that sense as well. Now, according to Turkish-İsti's study in June 2022, a family of four must spend monthly food for healthy balanced and adequate nutrition, so the hunger limit is $6.391 lira, ▪What we call food spending, clothing, housing, transportation, education, health care and so on is $20.818. Dear friends, look, the kitchen is burning inflation now, it's burning. There's a very serious inflation in the kitchen, and as of the last 12 months, the rate of increase has been 117 per cent; the TİK explains it to us, explains it with data, and referred to a lot of scientific research in its report. I particularly recommend that our fellow executives read this report carefully. Since my time is up, first of all, I'd like to salute everyone by celebrating the holiday of all our people here. And I wish you the best of the law proposal. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0109par0111	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 29 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement be removed from the text of the article, which will come after the first joke of Law Proposal 346 in the box of Article 29. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Fehmi Alpay Özalan Mustafa Levent Karahocagil Ali Şahin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0110par0125	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0109par0126	No one wants to talk about the motion. I'm reading the reason: The location of the second joke added to the item is replaced by the third joke, considering the contents of the other jokes. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 30 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 30th amendment of the 30th amendment of the Law Proposal shall be made in accordance with the Law on State Officers 346 rows, in some Laws and 375 Laws. With all due respect. ADADDE 30- 19/6/1979, under Article 3 of the Ministry of Culture and the First Amendment of the Return Capital Law of 2252, has been added to the ministry's service areas, adding a declaration of services and services, provided to provide support for the price of publicisation in its second joke, when it is necessary to provide the services of the ministry. Yasar Tuğün Ali Öztunç Erkan Aydın Burcu Koksal Inspiration Özcan Aygun Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0111par0141	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0109par0142	It's Mr. Yasar Charter who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Charter.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0112par0145	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, on the last day of our General Assembly's speech program this year, I salute you. I tried to give a speech about the motion we made as the Republican People's Party Group. Dear friends, we have a large number of local executives in Turkey, so we have mayors, city legislatures, and city council members, who have a say in local governments. We are in a privileged, unfair position to the mayors of the city, which we specifically refer to as the city, which we hand over the future of the city, which we hand over all the living in the city. In particular, there are huge differences between the salaries taken by our mayors, the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, the mayors of the city, the mayors of the town, the mayors of the city. So they're four times the salary difference between the mayor and another mayor we hand over the administration of one town. We're the ones who are going to organize this, we're going to fix this, the Parliament, the High Assembly, and we're the MPs, but we're going to demand that this bill be corrected, especially by the exception of the additional clause. When we look at it this way, our mayors, especially our mayors in the major cities, our mayor of Istanbul, Esenyurt, for example, is addressing a voter of close to a million people, but imagine the mayor of a city that has more than 60 cities, can't pass through the VIP of the airport in that city, which is unfair. Here, the example is Ankara; Çankaya is one of Ankara's largest districts, and the mayor of Çankaya is unable to use the VIP, even if he is in Ankara alone. But when we look at the VIP regulations, we all know who's using it in the same way. We think that we can address these injustices, as long as we're here to collect the majority of the Commission, in order for these injustices to be dealt with. Dear friends, again, the person we hand over control of a city uses a green passport during the term of duty. So the city, the district, the county, the mayors of the city, are using this passport, but once they're done, they have no rights. So, again, with a motion to submit, we will have a motion to request the use of the passport he used during his mayoral mandate, along with the additional clause. And we ask for your support and your contribution. My dear friends, again, we have mayors in Turkey who have been elected from many political parties, different parties. They may have a particular lack of service, a lack of service, and more. Any party-elected friend can have his own schedule, his own project. But it's not really enough time to explain on this stand what the policies and the government has done to the mayors, especially elected by the National Alliance. Therefore, we will have a motion to continue passport rights so that the salary differences of our friends, who have been mayorally elected by the party can be resolved. We expect your contribution and support to this motion. I congratulate you on the feast of the sacrifice which is near, and say with respect to the General Assembly, in the hope of meeting in the sixth year of the 27th century.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0113par0151	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... the matter is accepted. I submit Article 31 to your votes: those who do not accept... those who do not... are accepted. There is one motion on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 32 of the current 346 rows of the Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. Tulay Hatimlari Oruç Oya Ersoy Kemal Bulbül Abdullah Ram Imam Taşçıer Hussein does not run Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0114par0162	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0113par0163	Şırnak MP Hüseyin does not run away if he wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0115par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. This is the end of another legislature. Apparently, during the four-year legislature process, the government did not make a single structural reform, only to postpone the solution with continuous palliative measures. Congressmans, Parliament is a place to address the people's problems, to address them, but with this understanding of power, this Parliament cannot solve any problems, nor can it cure any trouble. The current bag of legislation is not a living bag, it's an election bag. There's no people in this bag, there's no YITs in this bag, there's no solution to the students' KYK debt, there's no cure for the non-assigned teachers, so there's no law that can solve the public's problems. Of course, as we say in Article 32, we are still facing a palliative measure - the 50/D staff is clearly at a disadvantage in its rights. In other words, they are unemployed and out of the academy as soon as they complete their master's or Ph.D. Our main criticism on this issue is that the original conditions of the 50/D staff and the insecurity of the staff itself. The main problem at this point is that the academics are unable to provide an adequate and permanent staff in terms of their rights. Academics are sentenced to unemployment until they receive a permanent staff, even though they provide the necessary appointment, the criteria for ascension. In this regard, there will be no solution to the issue of 50/D, as long as there is no permanent guarantee of employment for academics and no necessary improvement in the rights of equity. Academics want to be equalised to 33/A staff in terms of their rights. In order to ensure job security and scientific academic freedom, academics must be met immediately. Of course, the economy has been critically criticised since morning. When we look at the country created by twenty years of power in today's Turkey, the minimum wage mothers, fathers, were created who had to take the orange out of the shift and not eat it himself. The government is not unaware of what the workers, the poor, but the poverty and misery of the people do not care about power. If it's for power, it's the bosses, the allies, and the five-to-ten bureaucrats who are the main ones. The government has once again crushed workers and workers to inflation, which we won't fail. You said, precious lawmakers. The hunger limit is $6,319, but the minimum wage is $5,500, so try to live below the hunger limit. I invite those who sign under this remorse and those who support it to live on $5,500 for a month. A deputy from AKP says I can't live on the same MP's salary when I preach to you a few months ago: "Eat half a kilo of meat, eat a couple of tomatoes." Mr. Deputys, I can't live on your own proxy's salary. When you say "I can't live on the worker's salary," you tell the worker to live on £5,500. It's not enough to raise minimum wage, you have to stop the rain of increase, you have to stop the inflation monster. In this inflationist environment, we, the HDP, propose minimum wage is $10,000, and we recommend the minimum pension should be $6000. There's no source. You're going to tell me. There's a source, change your preferences, transfer the resources you've invested in war, tanks, guns, guns, bosses, allies to the needs of the public. In fact, Montesquieu, one of the key figures of European enlightenment, has contributed to the development and systematic development of both political science and sociology, and has made a very clear case in a country in the 1700s. Now, do you understand why this country is sinking? Because in this country, during the AKP's rule, the benefits of sucking up are in the interest of honesty. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0116par0175	I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: Those who don't accept... those who don't... the matter is accepted. There is one motion on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the first sentence of Article 46, which is estimated to be added to Article No. 347, under Article 33 of the Law Proposal for Amendments in some Laws and 375, and Article 375 under the Law, we propose that the application of the International and International Law be changed in accordance with the first sentence of Article 46, which is recognised in the first sentence of Article 46, as well as in the third term, and that the above-national research shall be made known in accordance with the above-the-national terms of study activities, and shall be made available in order of the international law. Mustafa Elitaş Erkan Akçay Mehmet Kubat Doğan Ramazan Can Ali Şahin Mustafa Levent Karahocagil Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0117par0187	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0116par0188	No one wants to talk about the motion, so I'm giving you the reason: It is recommended that a Ph.D.-qualified human resource outside state higher education institutions can be appointed at higher education institutions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes Article 33, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 35, which I shall take according to the order of the violation of the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the change in Article 35 of Law Proposal 346 in the following way. The following temporary clause is added to the Law No. 35-2547. "Subject 81,82 and 83), for torture (matter 94 and 95), for torture (matter 96), for sexual assault (matter 102), for sexual abuse (matter 103, drug or stimulant manufacturing and trafficking (matter 188), for those who are convicted of killing, including those who have been cut off voluntarily, and for whatever reason they have been granted the right to kill (matter 81,82 and 83), for torture (matter 94 and 95), for sexual assault (matter 102), for sexual abuse (matter 103), for children's sexual abuse (matter 103, drug or stimulant production and trade (matter 188). Tulay Hatimlari Oruç Kemal Bul Abdullah Koç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0118par0205	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0116par0206	Anthalya MP Kemal Bülbül has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0119par0209	Thank you. Mr. President, I mean, we're tired, our voice is tired, Mr. President is tired, and the case is heavy. In the Law of State Officers and some of these laws, they brought it into a bag, into a saddlebag, into a saddlebag, and we pulled one of the ingredients out of this saddlebag, and the 35th article fell down to us, and it says: "We will bring forgiveness to the students of higher education." Those of you who couldn't get through higher education certainly expected this -- but it goes on as terrorism, murder, torture, torture, sexual assault, child abuse, drugs and so on. But it's said here that Kemal Kurkut is involved in everything, but it's not part of the scope of terror by killing Kemal Kurkut, by killing Ali Ismail, by killing Berkin Jon, by appointing trustees at universities, by throwing students out of school for unwarranted, unnecessary, useless reasons. Is that supposed to happen? Where is this definition of terrorism being made by whom in which laboratory, according to what rights, justice, and what humanity? There's no way to accept that. So we say we have an objection. The SEC itself has already lost its legitimacy, and has not contributed to any scientific development, to the capacity, to the development of any university since September 12th, but has taken the university environment, science, and should not be destroyed. This institution has no legitimacy, just like the Head of Religious Affairs, just like the institutions. Anyway, this bag, unfortunately, unfortunately, will pass, and after that, our coven will go on vacation, and soon the Feast of Sacrifice will come. This is the feast of sacrifice, which Abraham Khalillah had done to sacrifice Ishmael for the sake of truth and truth, and dedicated himself to the truth and truth. Come, sacrifice your arrogance, your ego, your separatism and your aberration to justice, law, equality on this Eid. This is the feast of sacrifice, not just an animal sacrifice, but the meaning of the sacrifice itself - not a festival, but a feast of truth and justice. So hold fast to the law for a moment, and hold fast to the truth for a moment, and hold fast to justice, and make your journey to yourselves. You will surely meet with the truth that is hidden in your hearts. Human beings are not just biological beings, Mr. President. Is man an entity of justice, mercy, truth, or zulmat? Whether you will sacrifice your persecution to the truth or not, that is the fundamental issue. This is the way we came to 2023. Will there be truth and justice in 2023, or zulmat in 2023, that is the main issue. It is evident to those who are in favor of injustice, and also to those who are in favor of truth and justice. O ye who walk in the way of truth and justice, do not despair, nor turn back from your way; for the year of equality and justice and truth is 2023. Love and respect.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0120par0216	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Act of State Officers 346 rankings under which there is a amendment to some Laws and 375 Laws shall be changed in accordance with Article 35 of the Law Proposal, Article 2547 and Article 83 of the first Article added to the Law shall be changed and proposed in the following manner. In all classrooms, including preparation for higher education institutions (matter 94 and 95), sexual assault (matter 102), sexual abuse (matter 103), sexual abuse (matter 103), production of drugs or stimulants and trade (matter 188) from students who have been voluntarily suspended, including those who have been intentionally convicted of murder (matter 81, 82 and 83), for torture charges of murder (matter 94 and 95), for torture (matter 96), sexual assault (matter 102), children's sexual abuse (matter 103), sexual abuse (matter 103), drug production and trafficking (matter 188), and records of false documents that have been filed during the act of terror crimes (matter 81, 82 and 83), while they have been registered on charges of torture (matter 94) and use of sexual abuse (matter 102), as well as well as well as for having registered under the right to the rights to be registered by the State of law or by the rights to be registered under the rights of law, under the rights of substance or by the rights of the State of law. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Sibel Özdemir Inspiration Özcan Aygun Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0121par0226	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0120par0227	It's Mr. Ali Candy, the Istanbul MP who asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0122par0230	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to honor those who lost their lives in the massacres, including the massacres of Sivas Başbaşlar, Çorum, Marash, Suruç and Ankara Gar. I demand that the state officials do their duty in the event that such massacres can be carried out again. If organizations can do these massacres in this country, then someone's not doing their job, they're turning a blind eye, and these massacres wouldn't have happened without turning a blind eye. This substance I'm promised is about the return of the suspended students to teaching life. This is a positive development, in general, and we have positive contributions, support, to ensure that education continues under all circumstances. But there's something in these ingredients that you've always loved called iltitics and lexics. If a person is not convicted of a crime, you can't keep him out of education with that definition, which means that even if he is convicted, he should be able to win his exams and continue his education. There's a very important point here: it's the student registering with false documents. What is it? When I was studying in Turkey, I enrolled in a high school outside the country. With a fake document, he goes, gets a blue card, is treated like a double citizen abroad, and thus registers at the favorite universities, ODTÜ, Boğaziçine, Çapaya, Surgery, and without a test. A gang organization, I'm afraid, is following this, and it's using kids to do it. These would benefit from this, including those who were cut off because of the false document, who had been erased from the record. With some conscientious individuals involved there, we hope there will be a positive correction with our warnings; I hope that the motion will soon be passed. Previously on TUS exams, there was fraud; how was it done? In TUS, we were working day and night to win the test, and went abroad, and came, and they came, and came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they went, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came, and they came. When I was working here, when I was a civil servant here, it was as if he had worked abroad, his education was incomplete. Such fraud shouldn't be allowed, the state of the Republic of Turkey shouldn't be used, and Parliament shouldn't be. Young people give up their education for economic reasons, young people have to solve housing problems, loans they're given need to be given as free grants. If we're here to allow Genghis Construction, Kalyon, Kolin, billions of euros to be passed on to 30, 40 years from now -- and we're not allowed to allow any of them -- but if one is allowed, we shouldn't ask those young people for that money and we can't even put it in the middle of their education life, we shouldn't ask them right away. On the one hand, it says: "We don't have to find jobs for everyone. " But how will they pay those loans after they've read them, how will they maintain their lives, how will they build a home? As long as there's a power that doesn't mind, these problems won't be solved, but we're here to solve them. (Applause from CHP rows) We only give a home to one of five students, and those children have to find homes at high, steep rent prices; it is not necessary to allow that. You know, we don't have a single university where more than 500 higher education institutions evaluate six criteria such as academic reputations, faculty and student ratios, information transfers, international faculty and international student ratios. We're not supposed to have this shame, not in this situation, Turkey; we've had two or three universities before. There have been many such false records to departments such as medical school, dentistry, and law, which need to be terminated. We said, "Let's heal the rights of the physicians." You didn't. The physicians have even torn up their most valuable diplomas. Now we had to give the physicians what they deserved, and you've seen a lot of these arrangements. Ambulance, fire trucks pay to cross bridges...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0123par0240	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 346 of Law Proposal No. 346 has been added to the first joke of Article 2547, under which Article 2547 shall be added to Article 2547 (the first article of Article 2547), including the charge of drug or stimulants and trafficking (the article 188) of those convicted after the declaration (the article 188) and the statement of those who have been cancelled due to a false document, and of those who gave false documents during the registration, and of those who had been given false documents on Article 5846 of the Code of Arts and Arts, written in Article 71. Mahir Ünal Ramadan Can Vildan Yılmaz Gürel Fatma Betül Sayan Kaya Semiha Ekinci Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0124par0249	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0123par0250	No one wants to talk about the motion. I'm having him read his alibi. It is intended that those who have been cut off from higher education institutions due to the crime of suicide, which is a serious crime in academic life, cannot benefit from forgiveness. I submit the motion to your votes: those who do not accept... the motion is accepted. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes Article 35: Those who accept... those who do not... the matter is accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who do not accept... those who do not... are accepted. There is one motion on Article 39: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the Law under Article 39 of the 346 rows of the meeting be changed to the finder's name. The children of Tulay Hatim Oruç Imam Taşçıer Oya Ersoy Kemal Julbül Abdullah Koç Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0125par0268	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0123par0269	It's Mr. Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı who wants to speak about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0126par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge on Article 53 of Law Proposal 346. I salute you and the public. Precious lawmakers are an arrangement to make a change in Article 30 of the Law on the Service of the General Directorate of the 53rd Article of the Highways and to impose a fine of 4 times the amount of the amount of the amount of the fee if the payment is paid after 45 days, after the payment of the fee. Obviously, we're dealing with an arrangement made by companies who have been given the right to operate or who run the interim highways in their offices for their own benefit. You know, there's a general belief that the law is being drafted in the ministries, that it's coming to the House. No, I'm afraid the law is being prepared in the corporate meeting halls. Here, this material is the clearest indicator of this. It's a complete nonsense to try to put such an arrangement in favor of the public. You pay a one-fold fine or four times as much, but you're gonna pay a fine.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0127par0276	I mean, respect the work of working friends. What do you mean, he's preparing for companies?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0126par0277	I mean, you can't say that you can't expect our people to pay a fine, to benefit from all services in the most appropriate and quality way. On the other hand, it's clear that many of the transitions, called escape routes, are in fact a system error, and it's not an exception at all. The first condition, PTT, does not warn the end of the HGS balance, and even if you pay automatically, they do not withdraw the money from the account; the public pays the penalty. Second, HGS doesn't read systems. Even without any information, 15 days later, he has to pay four times as much. If you don't get the notice, you're going into effect. There's been an incredible robbery. In fact, in order to warn the public, there is a massive robbery at the entrance of these highways run by companies. You have to write and warn the public. Let's assume that it's really illegal, that it's not as ridiculous as waiting for a citizen who can't pay a hundred lira to pay $400, but you'll say there's inflation, that the investors shouldn't be harmed. Are the companies hurting? No, because foreign currency guaranteed, vehicle guaranteed honey tenders... people are already in deep poverty, let alone business rights, the roads that are being handed over, the cars that are running the public highways and the cars that are not able to use because of the gas increase. And you're worried about how we can raise the money. So the government's been digging, not touching the fly, even making laws like this for flying geese, making them fly higher and higher by hand-to-hand movement. 45 per cent of the government's budget was earmarked for guaranteed payment. You have made a guarantee of around $27m to the company in charge of the Eurasia Tunnel, due to illegal crossings that could not be collected from 2016 alone. There's no harm in the corporations, the damage to the public. And the reason why the public's doing so much damage is because of the do-and-do-development or the public-private cooperation projects. We've said over and over again that public-special cooperation projects are the greatest burden on this people. Again, many experts have made it clear that such projects have driven the economy into a swamp. You're not transparent, you're not transparent, but you're not on the public side. The roads made by private companies are failing, we're preparing questions for the Ministry of Transport, a piece of paper with a lot of bullshit in it, but no answer. Why can't you give these companies the material moral punishment they deserve? It's obvious you're looking out for contractors. You're trying to cover up the road failures of the obvious manufacturing errors with a series of fictitious, fictitious, wasteful explanations. It's no one's right to raid the public's resources like this. These looting policies will disappear along with you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0128par0281	I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are not accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Matter accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 41st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. There are one motions on Article 42: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 42 of the Law Against the Act of State Officers 346 and Article 375 under the Law. With all due respect. The following sentence has been added after the second sentence of Article 4 of the Law on the Evaluation of moving goods belonging to Treasury No. 42-29/6/2001 and the Amendment to the Law on Value Tax Act 4706. According to the public institutional institution (b), sales are determined only by consideration of the ground price of the immovable. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu İstı Özcan Aygun Süleyman Bulbül Burcu Koksal Cavit Bee Gökan Zeybek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0129par0296	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0128par0297	Mr. Gökan Zeybek, the Istanbul MP who asked about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0130par0300	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I begin by celebrating the Day of July 1st, and honoring those who lost their lives in the July 2nd Sivas massacre. What does the law bring? The law provides us with an arrangement not only for the sale of the property they own by the treasury, but for the sale of the land they are under. A supplement is being brought to Article 4 of Law 4706. Who are these state-owned occupational organizations? So we see the trade rooms of TMMOB, the pharmacy room, the medical room, the bar rooms; beyond that, the trade organizations, the stock markets, the trade rooms, all of this. So, why does this material enter the text? Because in Turkey, it is still impossible to put these vocational rooms into construction plans, where they are a public institution, where they need the donuts for the areas they operate in. So every county and county has trading rooms, they have trade rooms, they have vocational rooms, but where are they going to live -- their collections, their incomes, their building on what parcels? They often build their buildings on the land that the treasure has assigned. And now, with the law, there's a temporary solution. Our proposal is very clear. Just as people today who work on scrap collecting must be getting into the development plans if we're suggesting that certain areas of recycling are now being processed in order to address the problems they've been collecting in the remote part of the city. What business rooms? They're vocational rooms with TMMOB. I would like to say to all the vocational rooms, whose legal powers have been taken away from them, except their membership dues, that a future is coming very soon, almost a year from now, when a new active and efficient control is restored to the legal processes, the implementation processes of the professional rooms, the law-making processes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, what's the deal with the trades? Mr. Speaker and I joined the general council of the tradesmen's chambers in Istanbul together. What did the shop reps say there? In Turkey, there are laws, regulations, everywhere, the tradesman's name, but there is no definition of a tradesman, there is no law. We passed a regulation on e-trade in the first session today. Now, I ask you, Mr. General Assembly members and members of the ruling party: what arrangement do you bring to protect my business in Anatolia against the international capital in E-trade, to protect my small business in Istanbul, Ankara, to protect my small shop owner, not to find customers in the back alley?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0131par0307	The law has passed, Mr. Gökan, the law of e-trade has passed.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0132par0308	Let's hear it, Mr. Salih, let's hear it.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0130par0309	E-trade arrangements are being made, but in regard to our small tradesman, the areas that the small tradesman needs, the small tradesman needs, the legal, legal regulations that the small tradesman needs, must have a law. Yes, in Turkey, the tradesman must have his own law. (CHEERING) When? We're about to break the tradesman's law, and we're going to have to set up the tradesman's definition with a law that will pass through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0133par0310	We'll set up the trade ministry.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0130par0311	Now, I'd like to make an addition to the arrangement brought in here about professional enterprises. Look, in the past, those of the village's corporate personalities who have returned to urban status have now become neighborhoods, but there are some agricultural structures, housings, on the land of the village, which now belongs to the village in its corporate nature, which now belongs to the treasure, there are some agricultural structures that the villagers have built, there are houses. Now, come, let's add to this arrangement, and let's just sell the land to the citizens who have built houses on the treasury plots in the villages, so we don't have to sell their homes to the villagers again, we're already celebrating your Sacrifice Day, and I'll pay my respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0134par0313	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 42nd article to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There is a motion on Article 43: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 43 of Law Proposal 346 be removed from the proposal text. The children of Tulay Hatim Oruç Imam Taşçıer Oya Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0135par0323	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0134par0324	No one wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0136par0325	Reason, Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0134par0326	I'm having him read his motive: Although there is already a financial problem, one of the biggest problems of the SME and the private sector is debt. The private sector external debt was 170 billion dollars, while the report on SME loans announced by the Banking Editing and Control Agency (BDK) at the end of March 2022 showed that small and medium-sized businesses are under a serious and steady burden of debt. According to this, Turkey still owes 4 million 219,000 small and medium-sized businesses a loan. The average debt per business amounted to 300,379 liras, with an increase of 34 per cent. The law's proposal to edit this grave painting will cause new debt crises. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There is a motion on Article 44, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 44 of Law Proposal 346 be removed from the proposal text. Tulay Hatimlari Oruç Oya Ersoy İmam Taşçıer Kemal Julbül Abdullah Koç Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0137par0339	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0134par0340	Mr. Gülüstan Kılıç Koçyiğit asking for advice on the motion.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0138par0342	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute you all. Before I begin my words, I would like to begin with a heartfelt tribute to the 33 intellectuals who were burned to death in Sivas, on July 2, 1993. Sadly, the darkness of that day's ISISian understanding is not far away from us, but also in many places today. We still haven't been able to face the Sivas massacre, and yet, in the Sivas massacre, criminals, perpetrators have been tried, and they haven't been punished for what they deserve. Which is why we have to say it again, if we don't face Sivas, which is why there have been other massacres since we didn't face it, so we need to investigate and confront all the dimensions of the Sivas massacre as soon as possible. Mr. President, Congressmans, there's another big bag of laws. You put a lot of things inside that don't look like each other. It's called choice, like, take the law, or choice, like bag. In addition to 3600 additional indicators, we see that there is no proper, decent, public regulation, but we are also dealing with a process that is constantly pumped into the central media, which is described as "newity" (e.g., "mugde"). While we were discussing this proposal here today, the minimum fee was set by the minimum fee of the minimum fee, and the great event said 5,500 lira. Yes, the mountain didn't even give birth to a mouse. For days, there has been talk of a minimum wage increase for weeks; the minimum wage is said not to be crushed by inflation, but at the end of the day, we've come to a sum of 5,500 lira, which is below the hunger limit, which is 50 percent of the population working in Turkey. Yes, minimum wage is an average salary in Turkey; 50 per cent of the working population operates at minimum wage. For him, when you set the minimum wage, you actually set 50 percent of the employees of this country's population and the upper limit of the remaining ones. Therefore, with this minimum wage below the hunger border, it is clear that no one in Turkey will be able to get along, that the small income will become poorer and that inflation will be crushed. Besides, what's your official inflation rate? 73.5%. So somewhere at 73.5%, you're trying to save the zewahir at a minimum wage of $5,500. Yeah, now, that's the minimum wage in the country. Purchasing power is getting lower, but most importantly, there is serious food inflation in this country. Look, today, there's over 113% of food inflation reflected in minimum wage, small income, and 91.6 percent in official proportions -- yes, 91.6% according to official data -- but we know that there's a much higher food inflation than that. Today, people are taking fruit with the grain, taking meat with the gram, almost unable to reach the red meat, and the children are short because they can't feed, and because they can't feed, they suffer from a lot of developmental diseases. Mothers and fathers weep for everything they can't feed their children, and they're in great pain, but as you can see, you're in a good mood, and everything's going smoothly. Now, what should we tell you in such an environment? It was a feast before us, and people would go home to their homes, and to their homelands, and to their mothers, and to their fathers, and they would feast with them, but no man shall go to his country on the feast. Because it's almost impossible for a family of four to travel with a daily increase in fuel. With these amounts and those rates in the middle, whose table do you raise, whose safe do you make, when you make the poor man's bread smaller every day, when you covet the bread on the poor man's table every day? You're inflating bank accounts every day for a bunch of your cronies, a bunch of rich people. We say, "Woe to you! It's a shame. It's a shame about this country's poverty, its workers. You don't belong in this country.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0139par0348	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now we begin the third section interviews. The third section covers the 45 to 65th clauses, including the interim article 1. İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Saruhan Oluç.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0140par0355	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I was thinking of having another conversation, but with the latest developments, I thought it would be more appropriate to start at minimum wage. Now, you know, the minimum wage is $5,500. Well, it's empty, actually, so you know as well as we do that this minimum wage doesn't satisfy any needs, and there's a huge wreck created by this. Now, look, either you have a Treasury and a Finance Minister, so this Treasury and Finance Minister's profession is actually illusionism. You know about illusionism, don't you? I mean, that kind of sleight of hand, that kind of stunt, that sort of thing. Yeah, you get a little bored. Now, this Treasury and Finance Minister of yours just spoke in Diyarbakir: actually, from January to today, the minimum wage has increased by 94.6% cumulative. 94.6 percent... well, there really isn't any boredom, there really isn't; is that possible? Yeah, the minimum wage was $1,515 per month lost to inflation by May 2022. How much is the increase now? $1,247. I mean, even this one shows. He's saying: the cumulative increase rate is 94.6%. So that's a lot of lies now. Now, we're like this, and you've brought in some substance abuse; now that he's here, we're going to talk about him. You call it 100 TL support for the employer. Well, we say the minimum wage is 5,500 lira, the price of misery, which obviously doesn't answer anything, no need at all. The 100-dollar support you have for these employers doesn't really mean anything to them either. I mean, it's not something that would be an ointment for any wound for employers, but let's say we did it. However, let's discuss lowering burdens such as brides, SEC bonuses, and taxes; no, you don't have that, you're getting something done. But you know what you're really doing? Where are you going to get the $100 you're going to give these employers? It's from the unemployment fund! I mean, it's not both illegal and ethical to use it, it's not true. You're going to transfer from the unemployment fund to the employers; you've done it before, it's going to be done again. Now this comes as a matter violation, that's the minimum wage. So, we'll continue to discuss this minimum wage issue. This minimum wage you've identified, $5,500, it's not going to be valid in August. That's how it went down in March in January, and that's in August, and we've already said that. The Istanbul Chamber of Commerce has just announced the inflation rates in Istanbul -- you know it all the time -- at food prices. Monthly food prices have increased by 4 per cent, 100 per cent per year; transport is 126 per cent; housing is 104 per cent. These rates in Istanbul are, in fact, an important sign for Turkey as well. Inflation rates, which will be announced Monday, even if the monthly inflation increases by 4 per cent, the TÜFE will reach 77 per cent; we face such a situation. We'll see about that on Monday, and we'll keep talking about it. Look, Congressmans, there's really a wreck and a huge collapse that you've created about this economy, and we're seeing this, and the Treasury and Finance Minister -- I'm telling you -- we're going to solve everything with an illusionist air, he says. Now, at last, again today he said: "February, March, inflation will fall, and we will go with the inflation of the election. I made a promise to the President. With provisions in the TÜİK (TÜİK), we will do so, not with measures taken in the economy, but with provisions made in TÜİK (TİK), and we will all live together. Now, look, this Treasury and Finance Minister -- he's not here right now -- but he was just here -- Mr. Mahir Ünal. Of course, there's a story told by Justice and Development Party Chairman Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and I'd like to say two sentences about him. What's this story? The story of exports, there's a huge increase in exports. That's what the new economic model was supposed to do. Turkey would produce, end unemployment, give more foreign trade, and we'd get it right. Now, our exports are flying, that's our story, our new story. So Erdogan said, "Hamdol al-Hamdol, this is a record for exports, a record we have reached from yesterday to today." What will the Treasury and Finance Minister say when he says so? We broke the Republic record, he says. Mahir Ünal has just arrived, and he has set a new record in Turkey's export... Now, yes, when we look at this, this is the data on exports, but what we call exports is not just exports, it has imports. Why don't you talk about it? Look, I've told you this before; I can't tell you this; let me show you this: this is the import curve; imports are increasing, see? This is imports, increasing; this is exports. Yes, exports are also increasing, but look at the increase in imports, and as a result, there is a significant increase in the foreign trade deficit. So stop telling a story, you're making it look like a fake victory. Now, the power that talks about exports doesn't speak of imports. Now, isn't that right, Mr. Ünal? Now, look, the data of the TÜİK (TİK) is in the middle, the data of the TÜİK (TİK); it's not the numbers we're talking about. The data of TİKİK is saying that exports increased by 15.3 per cent in May 2022 compared to the same month of the previous year. According to the same month, imports have increased by 43.5%. It says 43.5! Now, according to TÜİK Again, exports increased by 20.4 per cent in January-May 2022, but imports increased by 40.8%. We're dealing with a fact like that, so the imports have doubled, he says. Now, then, what happens in this situation? This shows that the foreign trade deficit increased by 155 per cent in May compared to the same month of the previous year; up from $4 billion 156 million to $10 billion 605 million. The rate of exports was 79.8 per cent in May 2021, while in May 2022, 64.2 per cent was reduced, so these are the real numbers, you have to give up this illusion. Now, I can continue to give you the numbers, and all the data from TÜİCK is actually -- yes, exports are increasing, but the rate of imports is higher -- so a country that can't produce without imports is created, a country's economy is created, and to produce imports dependency continues to create the inflation disaster, along with the surge in foreign currency. So you can't find any way out without talking about imports by just telling a story called exports in an economic model with curves all over it, so let's stress that once again. You're doing this a lot, we've said it before, we're saying it once again, and we're going to keep saying this in the coming days: you're expanding the foreign trade deficit, imports are a serious problem. Let's just say we're dealing with an economy that can't export without imports and without stockpile. So, you know, as a last word, this Treasury and Finance Minister's illusionist attitude can't be solved by the serious problems that have been faced by this economic administration, or by the public, it can be found to be a reassuring environment for society. The trust index in the consumer index continues to fall because there is no trust, and the confidence in the real production index continues to decline, and because of this illusionist attitude, it's possible to tell the Treasury and Finance Minister that there is no credible attitude -- when you look at it, it's possible for both people and the investors to say that it's possible for the workers, the workers, the peasants, the shopkeepers -- that no one trusts you, and that your actions in this unsafe environment, will not be rewarded. Thank you for listening.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0141par0370	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Cavit Bee is the MP of Antalya.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0142par0372	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the third chapter of Law Proposal 346, first of all, I salute you with respect and love. There is an offer within the agreed-upon bag law on the regulation of salaries and pension rights of public employees and administrators, but the issue of 3600 is a subject that has been on the agenda for many years as Republican People's Party and opposition. We see that the offer was made by the power in a way that was not prepared enough, without work, with urgent messages, even towards the election. This arrangement, on the one hand, has disturbed the large masses as it pleases certain segments. When we look at it in terms of personnel policy, it is seen as an arrangement that undermines the sense of justice, which is incompatible with the hierarchical order. We say to the victims who have not earned their share of this arrangement: just as we've been with the employee of the Republican People's Party so far, we've been with the victim, we've been with the worker, we've been with the worker, we've come to the minimum wage today, as the Republican People's Party has forced us to do today, just as we've managed to get the pension to pay for two religious holidays, just as we've been able to get the tax removed from the minimum wage, we're coming to power as soon as possible, a little patience, we're going to solve the problem of the problem of the unresolved one's problems as the Republican People's Party. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's a provision in one of the items in the third chapter, dear friends: there is an offer on the extension of the mandatory period of the emergency ramps on buses that work within the city of municipalities, which are 9 and above. On this occasion, once again, the public bus tradesman, such as the other transport tradesman, has become dying; every day he works, the tradesman loses its damage and its damage is doubled; now the public bus industry has lost contact; from the economic stalemate you created, the tradesman suffers great damage. So, what did you do for the people's buses that had to be paid by the Ministry of Family and Social Services for free? I'll tell you what you've done: 800 TL in normal municipalities, 1,000 TL in major cities; 1.330 TL in Ankara, Istanbul and İzmir; and four years later, you've only raised 50 per cent in 2018. With us pushing him out of here as the Republican People's Party over and over again, sir, giving him questions, giving him parliamentary research motions, making him work with a tradesman, you could only increase 50 percent, which is new. But from 2018, there's at least four times the increase in gas and masoth, the same way... here, my dear friends, you've brought the tradesmen to the point of sinking. All the burdens of the shipping trade are on the shoulders of the municipalities. There's one thing that stands out in this department, dear friends, about people who go through bridges without paying. In the 45 days following the non-payment date, the administrative fine will be considered a one-fold fine, provided the transfer fee is paid as one-fold administrative fine, regardless of whether or not it is served. Look, first of all, dear friends, it's the basic rule of law that a criminal action can be enforced so that a period of law can begin, and it all begins with notification. Your arrangement here is against the basic rule of law, it doesn't start without a notice for a while, but you're breaking the basic rule of law here, and you've even lifted the terms of notification just so that the administrative fine can be served. Now, bridges, highways, airports, made through public-special co-operation, are already a burden in the budget. In addition to the additional budget that we agreed to earlier, 10.5 billion were earmarked for these public-private collaborations. The total for 2022 went up to 53 billion, dear friends. Now, something else has come up in these Commission talks, and I've just mentioned that if it's paid in one floor or 45 days, if it's paid in fourfold. So we all think that the government is getting the punishment up to four floors, because the fines are paid to the government, but look, dear friends, what's come out is that in public-private collaborations, in these projects, it turns out that the punishments from these bridges go to these companies, to these companies, to non-company companies. So it's not enough that you've transferred public funds to the allies, and now you're transferring them back to the allies. So you're handing out multiple tickets to the company without notice, without notice, without charge, without charge; that's what it turns out to be. Now, with public-private businesses, the currency-protected deposit, the two grenades that have led to the transfer of public resources to certain sections, dear friends; look, two grenades. If such matters continue, Turkey's budget is literally threatened, public resources are threatened. I'll give you an example quickly: On March 18th, the Canakkale Strait Bridge opened. On March 16, 2017, the tender date of this bridge is 16 years and 3 months. The cost of this bridge in the tender date -- TL on the basis of -- 10 billion 354 million, 576 thousand dollars, or 2 billion 545 million, 465 thousand euros. On March 18, 2022, the bridge was admitted to be in service, costing 42 billion dollars that day. There are 45,000 car guarantees per day, and 15 euros per vehicle, plus a VAT guarantee. Now, my dear friends, look, we said the price of 42 billion when this bridge went into service. What happened on the same day, what happened on the same days? How much did the currency-protected deposit cost to this state as of April 8th? 21 billion. Now, my dear friends, the price of this currency-protected deposit, when the first three months were up, when the four months were up, was half the Chanakkale Strait Bridge. As of today's cost, the cost was about 1 Canakkale Strait Bridge. So, you continue to transfer the country's resources to certain parts with a hedge-protected deposit system and public-private cooperation projects, so you continue to bring heavy burdens to the country's economy. I say this practice must be abandoned at once, and I offer you all respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0143par0383	On behalf of the third part of the proposal, Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0144par0386	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, no law, we're making thematic laws now. You said, "You've passed the bag, it's soup, it's a sack." You're making laws involving 4 million public servants, 2.5 million retired officers. You need to get the opinions of the unions; the opinions of the associations, even the baron's opinion, were important. You pretended to take it, you took it, and they said that they were against it and that it wasn't the right work. But what happened? You took his opinion, you ignored it. You brought in an additional budget not too long ago. The Treasury and Finance Minister said there was more in May, our performance is very good. E, five days later, Mr. Erdogan sent an additional budget proposal to Parliament. Unfortunately, power no longer has a vision of six months from now. We already know that you don't have a prediction in exchange, so we're going to reduce the interest, we're going to reduce it. By the time the exchange went from 8.50 to 18,50, inflation had already gone from 19 to 34, the budget of 2022 had already gone out at that time, and now, here it is, you had to add up to 80 percent of the 2022 budget yesterday. So you don't like interest at all, we're lowering policy interest. You said, "The interest on the citizen has increased, the interest on the domestic debt has increased, the burden of the treasure has risen, the CDS has risen because of your trust problems, you have to borrow out of 12.5. Again, supposedly, you didn't like interest, but it took $43.5 billion for domestic debt interest, 31.9 billion for foreign debt interest. Again, you said that the so-called "wood-protected deposit" would have no weight on the treasure, zero, no cost. But you had to add another $40 billion to it. You're looking at it with pink glasses, and we're seeing it in the Plan and Budget Commission. For example, you don't look at foreign trade numbers, you don't express them, you don't talk about the $43.5 billion trade deficit in those first five months, but you say: exports have increased. So you deceive the citizen, and you prevent yourself from at least producing solutions, and you do whatever destabilizing action there is, there's no stable initiative. Now, due to your financial difficulties, the currency-protected deposit wasn't enough, you had to take out revenue-related bonds, you created a new tender, which is a failure, valued lawmakers, in response to the revenues that public institutions should transfer to the treasury and budget. Now, what happened? You've already earmarked $240 billion for interest, $89 billion for additional budget, plus $40 billion for currencies interest, plus $369 billion for a total of $369 billion, which you don't like interest in. You've brought a bag of legislation, you'll paint it, the hunger limit is $6.319, the poverty limit is 20.818 lira, which the police now take from 25 years of service, 9.706, which our teachers get from 8.668 liras, which our doctors get from 13.332 liras. So it's not just the minimum wagers, it's the police, the teachers, our doctors, they're getting below the poverty line of $20,818. A total of 34 million employees and pensioners also receive 80 per cent below the poverty limit. You were already late when you brought the 3,600. Since my time was short, I had to make it short. Now, you've lifted the dam on the college exam, you're bringing forgiveness, and we're not against bringing it, but you tell the young people, "Tell me about my employment; will these young people get a job when they graduate, and what did you do for this? What did you do for it? What have you done for young people who lack food, who lack poverty, lack of housing in poverty? So it's enough to bring forgiveness? Isn't that a cover-up? Please, I suggest you sit down and think seriously about the future of young people. Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0145par0394	Talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motions on those substances if there are any. There's a motion on Article 45 that I'm reading. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 45 of the Law Against the Act of State Officers 346 and Article 375 under the Law. With all due respect. ADADDE 45-13/12/2004, Article 30 of Article 30 of the Law on the execution of Penalty and Security Measures No. 5275, the 1st commandment of the Law, which has been adopted after its declaration, has been changed from those who are willing to come, after which they will continue to learn the trade and arts to continue their lives, to develop or strengthen their desire to produce, to bring them back to society and to be healed. The following sentence has been added to the following sentence. "The diary of these prisoners cannot be less than a day's pay for skilled prisoners who are employed within their homes. In the case of prisoners employed under this clause, the provisions of Article 5 of Article 5 (a) of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 31/5/2006 apply in accordance with Article 5 (a). In this case, the obligation to pay the premium is carried out by the institutions and institutions where the prisoner is employed. Cavit Bee Inspiration Özcan Aygun Süleyman Nightingale Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Burcu Koksal Kani Beko Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0146par0410	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0145par0411	Hatay MP Mehmet Güzelmansur has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0147par0414	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the General Assembly and all our citizens. The country is in debt and the citizens are in debt because of the wrong economic policies imposed by the government. The citizen was wrapped up in his credit card because of his life-threatening problem. Credit card charges have increased by 19% in the last year. In the first three months of 2022, 613,000 people were legally pursued for failing to pay credit cards and loans. As of July 1, 2022, the execution and bankruptcy of the executive offices increased to 23 million, 819, with approximately 4.7 million executive files coming in this year alone. Do you know what that means, dear friends? That's an average of 26,000 people per day in this country. The situation is obvious, these are the numbers, but if you ask the power, the economy is just right. I can't get through. Those who say "I can't get through" are liars, speculators are making the raises, and the dollars are raised by external powers, according to power; it's as if the government has no responsibility. No, brother, it's not her, it's not that, it's the only responsible power. Is the AKP just bad in power? No, it's bad for the opposition. I'll give you an example: Hatay Metropolitan Municipality is in CHP, but the AKP opposes the AKP's mind because the parliamentary majority is in the Cumhur Alliance, but it's such a bad opposition that they're destroying the people of Hatay when they're trying to damage the CHP's Hatay Metropolitan Municipality. We have Hatay Su and Sewer Management, short for HATSU. The price of electricity, fuel, drinking water services has increased by 2-3 times the price of the AKP's poor management. Since Hatay did not build a dam for the ruling, 80 percent of Hatay's drinking water is covered by deep water wells, which means Hatay's drinking water is extracted by electricity. Electric prices have also increased by 300 per cent in the last year. The drinking cost of HATSU was thus increased to $11.45. The AKP says: "No matter how much your wealth increases, go ahead and cut the water. No matter how much your costs increase, go, don't raise water. (Despite the costs, the market reality, with AKP pushing, HATSU is selling a cubic meter of water for $4.88, so HATSU sells it for almost one-third of its cost. So do you know how much damage the HATSU did to the six months between November 2021 and May 2022? About 256 million liras. Now look at the water prices in 30 urban municipalities, Hatay Metropolitan Municipality, the 2nd municipality that sells water at the cheapest. If you want people to use cheap water, then manage the economy properly. Do not increase electricity, fuel, iron, cement, and pipe; let the water increase, and let the HATSU sell the water cheaply. No, if you can't do that, it has to be sold for $4.88, despite the costs. If you say so, then buy water in Balıkesir, Denizli, and Manisa municipalities at this price and let's see your sincerity. I and the people of Hatay know very well that you don't want people to use water cheaply, but you want to make HATSU (HTSU) dysfunctional, your problem is to make HATSU suffer. In that case, you will have reason to make Hatay Metropolitan Municipality look bad, and Hatayli will go running and vote for AKP. Is that what you think? Then you are very wrong, the people of Hatay are aware of everything. From here I warn AKP with all sincerity and sincerity: If HATSU continues to do harm, Hatay will be thirsty, and the Hatays will ask you the account of this thirst by burying you in the chest. Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0148par0421	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 45th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 46th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 49th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are one motion on Article 50; since the motion exceeds 500 words, the summary of the motion shall be read under Article 87, and the whole motion shall be added to the report. In addition, the full text of the motion has been distributed among political parties. I'm having the motion read now. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly [[x]] We propose and propose that Article 50 of Law Proposal 346 be changed in the following way. "MEDDE Law 50-5520 is added to the following temporary clause. "Till 31/3/2023, bank or intermediary agencies have been notified of money, gold, foreign currency, security and other capital markets. (2) The ones involved in the first joke can be used to close loans from banks or financial institutions abroad to 31/3/2023 at the latest. In this case, this clause shall be used without the requirement to be brought to Turkey for the assets used to pay the debt, provided it is removed from the ledger records. (3) In the event that capital advances recorded in the legal books of this article are covered by the fact that money, gold, foreign currency, security and other capital markets in the country have been brought to Turkey before this material can be implemented, such advances will be deducted from book records to 31/3/2023 at the latest. (4) The money, gold, foreign currency, and other capital markets, which are owned by the taxpayers of income or institutional taxes and are not included in the legal ledger records in Turkey, are not carried by means of the tax offices until 31/3/2023. (5) The first and fourth joke states or states are recorded in legal books as of the date of notification or declaration by the taxpayers who keep books under Law 213. According to the balance sheet, the taxpayers who keep a notebook open private funds account on the sidelines for the value they save in their legal books according to these clauses. This fund cannot be withdrawn from the business until two years have passed from the date of notification or declaration; it cannot be used for any other purpose other than capital; it cannot be taxed if the business is terminated. Compulsors who keep books on the basis of the business account and the book also show the value in the books. These assets may not be taken into account in the detection of the term's earnings, and they may be withdrawn from the operation, regardless of the fact that it is taxed by two years from the date of notification or declaration, and that it determines the distributable profits for institutions. Those without income and institutional taxes can benefit from substance provisions, regardless of the other conditions included in this joke, which must be applied by the latest declaration of non-removable assets as of the date of transfer to bank or media institutions. As part of the fourth joke, no allowance shall be taken under the Law of Elevens, dated 2/7/1964, for the transfer of subsidiaries into business records, and the transfer of these premises shall not be dispossessed in the application of Article 80 of Article 193. 6) Bank and intermediary institutions report to the tax office on the same day as 1 per cent, 1/10/2022 dates to 31/12/2022 (including this date) for notifications reported to them on the value of assets reported to them by the owner of assets reported to them by 30/9/2022, at the same time of the month, which they pay by 3%, 31/3/2023 per cent in advance for notifications. So the tax rate is 0 per cent, if reported assets are transferred to bank or broker institutions in Turkey or transferred from abroad to these accounts for at least a year from now. If so, the tax paid to the tax office by the bank and its subsidiaries during the notification will be returned after the tax owner's application to the relevant tax office. 7) Taxes are taxed by 3% over the value of the assets reported to tax agencies, and the tax is paid by the end of the month when the tariff is made. According to this joke and the sixth joke, the tax can't be paid by any means, nor can it be paid by another tax. 8) The provisions of Act 213 regarding the assets referred to in the declaration and declaration do not apply. Damages caused by the disposal of these assets are not accepted as costs or reductions in the application of income or institutional tax. 9) There is no tax examination or tax history for those who have been reported or reported. In the event that tax reviews and appreciation commission decisions have resulted in the difference in the merits reported or declared in the matter and the amount of assets reported or declared are equal to or greater than the amount of math difference there is, there is no history of the difference in mathematics. Despite the discovery of the matherah difference, the tax history is made only by the amount of difference if it is larger than the amount of assets reported or reported. If the tax review or the appreciation commission is determined to determine the difference in the matrix for reasons other than the information or the assets referred to in the statement, the amount reported or declared under this clause will be recorded without being excluded from the discovery of the math. 10) Although reported assets have been reported in accordance with the first joke, they cannot be brought to Turkey within three months of the date of the notification, or transferred to a bank or intermediary institution in Turkey and cannot be used for the duration of the specified taxes on the amount reported or declared, and other conditions not being fulfilled in this article cannot be used. After the date in which the tax review was launched or referred to the commendation commission, the ninth sentence is not imposed on the tariffs as a result of the notifications and statements made under this clause. The failure to pay the tax on the due date does not interfere with surveillance and collection under Law 6183, along with a tardiness increase of the tax base. Collected taxes are not denied or returned. 11) Once the notice and declaration period is over, no arrangements for notifications or statements can be made. 12) The Treasury and Finance Ministry is authorized to determine procedures and procedures for the implementation of information and documents and implementation of the substance, in its primary form of notification and declaration, and the introduction of material assets to Turkey. 13) Under the Law that violates this clause, the amendment clause of Article 10 of the Law (part 1) applies to five account periods, including the account period of 2022 for companies who have raised capital or established it for the first time before the date of the article's execution. Mustafa Elitaş Erkan Akçay Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ali Şahin Mustafa Levent Karahocagil Fehmi Albay Özalan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0149par0451	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0148par0452	No one wants to talk about the motion. CONTINUES on Article 50 of the Law Proposal are encouraged to also register the assets of the taxpayers of income and institutional taxes in the country, in order to bring money, currency, gold, stocks, bonds and other securities to Turkey. In order to benefit from the matter, you must submit or report until 31/3/2023. Tax rates of 1/10/2022 to 31/3/2023 (including this date) are expected to be used as 2 per cent of the tax rate between 1/10/2022 and 31/12/2022 (including this date). Again, it is possible to return the tax received during the notification, if the assets are kept for at least a year in accounts that will be opened in banks and media institutions. The verdict, on the other hand, is the final joke on how those who have made the cash capital increase before the publication of this law, which is in the current Article 50 of the proposal, will benefit from the new arrangements.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0150par0458	Mr. President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0148par0459	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. There's enough to decide...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0150par0460	Where's the number of decisions, Mr. President? Where do you have it?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0148par0461	In accordance with the motion accepted...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0150par0462	No, there's not enough to decide, obviously not.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0151par0463	Mr. President, it's obvious there's not enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0148par0464	There's been a disagreement between the clerks.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0150par0465	What's the conflict, which one's the conflict?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0148par0466	I'll vote with the electronics. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 50th article: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There is one motion on Article 51: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 51 of the Law Against the Act of State Officers 346, and the Amendment to Code 375, as follows. With all due respect. The following joke was added to Article 2 of the Law on Taxes, Funds and Shares. According to the first joke made by the Turkish Entity Fund or the Turkish Entity Fund, from the amount recorded by the company established by the entity, 8% of the public share of the state's chance games, which have been passed on under Article 2 under Article 320 of the Constitution; 8% of the second month of a calendar, followed by the end of the working hours of the 15th day of the month. These provisions of the Law shall not be carried out on the amount registered by the National Lottery Administration General Directorate." Burcu İksal Bkent Kuşoğlu Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Omer Fethi Gürer Inspiration Özcan Aygun Cavit Bee Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0152par0483	We can't be moved, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0148par0484	Niğde MP Omar Fethi Gürer has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0153par0487	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're in negotiations again on a bag of law proposals. For years, we have been considering the arrangement for the addition of 3,600. Today, he finally came as a law proposal, and at the end of the talks, the law will be passed. However, it is also important to note that there has not been an arrangement of fairness and justice. Again, I've already proposed law twice about student forgiveness. There were also students who had been victims of that subject for years, and they were finally noticed. But now, the driver's license pardon... for those who didn't try to kill themselves... was also looking for a pardon for the DMV punishment, which unfortunately isn't part of the law proposal. Dear friends, those who live to the age of retirement, which is always expected, amongst the proposals of the law to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. It's a pity that old pensioners' rights have not been extradited for years. Unfortunately, when spouses in the same family are unemployed because of the economic crisis, they can't even benefit from health care because the Social Security Agency does not have a bonus, they suffer a very serious loss. Unfortunately, the pensioners were not involved in this package of legal proposals. There are people at the subcontractor company. Although some of them were recruited by companies, the majority of subcontractors hoped to find their place in this bill before the festival. Again, unfortunately, they were not included in this offer. The pension, said to have been raised to $3,500 for pensioners, would have been paid at least $4,500 today if the Justice and Development Party had not reduced its monthly binding rate from 70 per cent to 35 per cent in 2008. For him, the monthly binding rate must be raised from 35 per cent to 70 per cent again. $3,500 isn't a living wage for a pensioner. As it has not already been carried out, neither has the arrangement for the pensioners to contribute to the drug contribution, nor unfortunately has it been made. Retireds continue to be victimized in this sense. No news for the unregistered medics, teachers, engineers before the holidays. The expectations for interns to start as of the day the old age insurance started were not included in this law proposal. Today, however, a minimum wage arrangement was made, and the government also accepted the failure of the minimum wage set six months ago due to the economic crisis. Six months ago, he boasted about his raise, and six months later, he concluded that this raise had to be fixed. 5,500 lira minimum wage has just been paid. But a year ago, the weight of the bread, which was 4 liras a year ago, was 20 liras a year ago, and the weight of the sugar, which was $4.5 a year ago, was 25 lira a pound, 5 lira a bagel, and the minimum wage should not be below the hunger limit. Sadly, the workers were also sentenced to a fee below the age of starvation. This was supposed to be an arrangement of around $7,000. To be honest, we've been through a process where workers' expectations have not been met. The law clause I was to discuss was about the national lottery; the name of the National Lottery has turned into all kinds of games of chance. Somewhere gambling has become common, foreign betting has exploded, and the illegal bet has, unfortunately, become natural in our country. Somewhere there's a substance abuse, a gambling, a social collapse. It's not just the economic crisis, but unfortunately in the country, the Justice and Development Party also says that morality has collapsed during its rule, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0154par0497	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who don't accept... the matter is accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who do not accept... those who do not... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 53, and I will process the motions according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change in Article 53 of Law Proposal 346 in the following way. ADADDE 53-25/6/2010: "The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, "The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, "The Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, " has been changed in the form of the Ministry of Trade. "In 45 days, following the seventh joke of this clause, the administrative fine will be a step up if a floor of the transfer fee is paid as an administrative fine, regardless of whether or not the administrative fine has been delivered, and there will be no further notification for this sentence, provided it is paid as an administrative fine. If that's the case, it's dated 30/3/2005 from the administrative fine and 17th from the Law of Offenses 5326. A reduction clause in Article 6 does not apply. At the same time, a strict fine of this fee will be collected from those who pay in accordance with the fee they are obliged to pay during 45 days, following the seventh joke of this clause. After the forty-five days following the nonpayment date, the transit fee for the owner of the vehicle, which is defined in the collection systems for the vehicle from which he entered and exited without paying the transfer fee, is text messages, e-mails, notices, e-government notifications and so on, at least fifteen days ago. At least one method is informed. This amount is collected according to the general provisions. Tulay Hatimlari Oruç Kemal Bul Abdullah Koç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0155par0512	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0154par0513	It's Mr. Tulay Hatimlari Orç who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0156par0516	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are not really in the law that's costing the public an additional 3600. It's not a bag, it's really a giant sack, but again, it's a AKP classic. The item I'm talking about involves a payment period for the car owners who have been found to have moved without paying for the crossings for the roads where access to the highways is being implemented. The most basic public issues, such as housing, electricity, water, roads, transport, education, health care; these are the most basic rights in a public structure, and the government's duty is to present them to the public without money, but unfortunately, they sold the roads and hospitals because there was nothing left that AKP power had not sold. For the year 2022, $20 billion, $378 million was earmarked to guarantee the budget of the General Directorate of Highways, and the money paid to the companies, because it was covered by currency, has increased exponentially because the exchange is not standing, the exchange is increasing. The guarantee paid only to Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge in four years is equivalent to the unemployment salary of 2,200,000 people. That's exactly what the AKP's conscience and this government's conscience brings this country. Privatisation, hoser, fraud understanding, our people's taxes are returned to us, not as roads, water and electricity, but as hikes, persecution and torture, to the vast majority of society. See, Turkish-İsti's data was expressed here by the speaker who stood on almost every bench: ▪ Hunger has crossed the limit of 6,000, poverty is over 20,000. The unions explain it. At this rate, we're going to look exactly like Lebanon, so the deposit holders won't be able to withdraw their bank money, deposits; there's four prices of currency in the market; that's where the country's headed. Dear peoples of Turkey, we will not darken the neck, we will not give up hope. The AKP, the palace, the five-alarm gang, they seem very powerful now because they've got all the organs of the state behind them; they've got the police, all the government's mechanisms behind them, but they're not stronger than the people, the people know it very well, and they need to know it. We're going to throw this hump on our backs, this great humpback that this power has put on our backs, we're going to do detailed work on the public economy, we're going to take every step of the way that will bring justice to the tax that bends the back of the small and medium-scale tradesman. We have to bring the additional indicator, not to some of the public workers, as they have now brought in the additional 3600, but a harvest that all public workers in Turkey will benefit equally. If we say to this power that wants to make election material again: Again, the IIT must be delivered equally to all of the EYT's rights, as you have divided by public workers, by dividing by the IITs, by making an eye-painting election investment. Again, in the bag we're now interviewing, student amnesty is tied to the terms. The law prevents a student from returning to school, which includes forgiveness, by putting a student on a list of terrors, should include forgiveness. You put everything in this bag, but you didn't put the KYK, which concerns millions of students, into this bag. You don't care about young people's unemployment, you don't care about KYK debts. Young people are the ones who are going to remove this power in the first place, and they're going to do this to power, so it should be known. Young people are not alone; for their right, law, and future, we, the Democratic Party of Peoples, will continue to work until the end.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0157par0523	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the provision of the Law Proposal in the following way, in accordance with the Act of State Officers 346. With all due respect. Article 53 - 25/6/2010 and Article 30 of Article 30 of the Law on the Service of Highways No. 6001 were added to the first sentence of Article 30 of the Law, and to the fifth joke, "The Ministry of Trade and Trade," the statement "The Ministry of Trade" in its eighth joke, "The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Infrastructure, has been changed to "The Ministry of Transport and Substructure. "In 45 days, following the seventh joke of this clause, the administrative fine will be a step up if a floor of the transfer fee is paid as an administrative fine, regardless of whether or not the administrative fine has been delivered, and there will be no further notification for this sentence, provided it is paid as an administrative fine. In this case, there will be no reduced sentence from administrative fines dated 30/3/2005 and in the sixth joke of Article 17 of Article 5326 of the Law of Offenses. "At the same time, a maximum sentence of this fee will be collected from those who pay their transit fee in accordance with the procedure during 45 days, which follows the seventh joke of this clause. After the forty-five days following the nonpayment date, the transfer fee is four times the amount of punishment, as well as four times the amount of information described to the owner in the collection system, at least fifteen days ago by text messages, e-mails, notices, e-government notifications and so on. At least one of their methods is informed. This amount is collected according to the general provisions. Abdulatif Sener Gökan Zeybek Inspiration Özcan Aygun Suleiman Nightingale Koksal Cavit Bee Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0158par0536	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0157par0537	It's Mr. Abdulatif Sener who wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0539	Mr. President, to the microphone...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0157par0540	Bless you, water is abundant. Officers, please take a look at the bench.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0542	No, you started it before you got here.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0160par0543	There's nothing there. You opened the clock early.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0544	You opened it early, and that's why I...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0161par0545	You don't have to be nervous. If you remind me, I'll start over.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0546	So anyone who has not experienced tensions in the General Assembly after the government's motion has just submitted is in a state of ignorance, deception and treachery.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0162par0548	You've lived that betrayal, you've lived that betrayal.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0549	If you break the law, you're bringing disaster into this country.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0163par0551	You brought him back in 2003 when you were Minister, and you brought him back when you were Minister in 2003.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0552	You're turning this state into a mob state!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0164par0553	Don't be vague, just say what it is here, say it!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0554	This should be a state of law, walk on legitimate ground.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0164par0555	Tell me, what did we do? What did we do? You can't talk like that here!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0165par0556	You brought this in 2003...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0557	I didn't bring it.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0165par0558	You brought it.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0559	I didn't bring him.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0165par0560	You were a deputy prime minister, a member of the Cabinet.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0561	There's a code, there's a pattern.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0166par0562	What's the matter with you here?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0563	Why have you been struggling since 2009? Are you trying to get in the way? There's no need to sell the country here to impress the man upstairs.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0166par0564	Explain what you have to do, don't talk nonsense, don't talk nonsense!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0565	This logic does not govern the country, nor does this logic pass the law through the House.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0166par0566	We're gonna ask you!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0567	Look what you've done.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0166par0568	You look!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0159par0569	You've been laundering money since 2009. You bring in money, trafficking, drug trafficking, white trafficking, terrorism-based gains, a law clause that launders all of it, you fight to get through it, you fight to get through it. You're not an AK PARTY, your face is black, black.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0167par0571	Snap out of it, take it easy!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0168par0572	Look at you! Look at your face!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0169par0573	Do you look in the mirror, do you ever look in the mirror?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0168par0574	Look at your face!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0170par0575	If your heart was strong enough, if your heart was strong enough, you would put it in the proposal of the law, you would argue it in the commission, you would argue it here, everyone would see what it was, and you would know what it was. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Would such a substance pass through here without being understood by recommending it to make the opposition unable to speak?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0171par0578	You're always talking, and I'm not talking. You're saying that!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0170par0579	That's not how it works, that's not how it works.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0171par0580	You can't be so conflicted; your life is full of contradictions, your life has lived in contradictions.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0170par0581	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0172par0582	You've lived in contradictions.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0173par0583	You're running for president?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0170par0584	Too bad, too bad! You never get bored, do you?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0173par0585	Say it, say it, say it!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0170par0586	You don't get bored when you're trying to talk, do you?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0173par0587	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0170par0588	Are you getting bored in the face?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0174par0590	Look at your face. Look at your face, look at your face, look at your face.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0175par0591	Yeah, snap out of it! It's a shame! Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0176par0593	Shame, shame...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0175par0594	Shame on what? Go back to your group, talk, brother. Go back to your group, talk, brother.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0176par0595	There's more to it than that, you're turning the government into a mob state.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0175par0596	What shame?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0176par0597	You're turning the government into a mob state.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0175par0598	Know your place!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0176par0599	You're saying it's a shame. You're saying it's a shame. It's a shame!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0175par0600	Know your place and talk!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0176par0601	Bring it to the Commission if you can.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0177par0602	May Allah make no one like you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0178par0603	Sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0179par0604	Sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0180par0605	If you had enough of your heart, if you had put it in the text of matter, it would have been discussed properly.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0181par0606	Look at you, look at you!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0180par0607	What are you missing?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0182par0608	He didn't take you anywhere, he didn't take you anywhere. Look at you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0183par0609	Look, everyone's in a good mood. Look, all opposition enjoys it, pleasure!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0180par0610	Why did you make it undisputable, why?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0184par0611	You go ahead and argue.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0180par0612	Why did you make it undisputable with the motion, and why did you do it?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0185par0613	What did we bring? Tell me, what did we bring? Tell me what we brought?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0184par0614	It doesn't suit you. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0180par0615	What have you brought?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0185par0616	Huh, what's he saying?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0180par0617	I told you, I've been telling you, you've brought a substance that launders all kinds of black money, launders all kinds of criminal gains.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0185par0618	He's talking for the record.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0180par0619	You brought a similar one in 2016, this is your 7th return. You gave the president the right to extend; June 30th, as of today, his right to extend was expired. You're bringing in this motion today, tonight at this time, to make sure that Turkey will be transformed into a center that translates this black money so that it can continue again from tomorrow.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0186par0620	They won't make you a candidate.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0187par0621	You're making a personal law.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0188par0622	It's a shame you're making a law to deliver to an address.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0189par0623	You need to get this right away. You need to withdraw this motion with my counter-offer, pull it out!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0190par0625	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 55th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 56th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit Article 58 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 59, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the following joke to the following after the third joke, which is envisioned to be added to Article 375 under the State Officers' Law and Article 375 under the Law. "As for those on the staff of the Social Security District Manager and the Executive Director of Labor and Business Association, the majority of the 18th Amendment (c) was mine, and this applies to me. Mustafa Elitaş Erkan Akçay Mehmet Doğan Kubat Kayseri Manisa İstanbul Ramadan Can Fehmi Alpay Özalan Mustafa Karahocagil Kurşkale İzmir Amasya Ali Şahin Gaziantep Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0191par0638	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0190par0639	It's Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0642	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We've just watched a very sad, very immoral, unethical speech on this bench, unbecoming of a congressman's dignity, unprofitable of honor. The MP is the man who stands up, the man who keeps his word, the man who boasts about his past. We've brought the first asset peace in 2003, you're Deputy Prime Minister, and your signature is your signature.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0193par0644	It's not the same.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0645	It's the same. Well, my friend, in 2003 you were objecting, why didn't you leave, why did you continue to be Vice Prime Minister, why did you continue? (ARK PARTI) (Bravo, applauses) (CHP rows) But when you couldn't do it, 2007 said: "I'll be dervishe, I'll be dervishe, I won't be a MP anymore." Six months later, he started a party, and there were other things going on behind him. O friend, the man who dresses from where he undresses, the man who undresses where he undresses, he is a man who takes his clothes off; from place to place, from place to place. Look, you're gonna stick to your words, what are you?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0194par0647	You're from the motherland.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0648	You're a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, so here's Deputy Director of the Group, I've shared it with the Deputy Director of the Group, I've spoken to your party spokesman at the Plan and Budget Commission, and I said...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0195par0649	Elitaş, where did you come from? You didn't run for DSP? Your nomination from the DSP wasn't enough, you came to the AKP.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0650	...we have to give this bill after June 30th because there's no tax on the bill we've brought in so far, but as of July 1st, as of 30th, as soon as the bill comes in, we're going to charge 3% interest, tax. I spoke to your party spokesman, I spoke to your Group Chairman, I brought this motion with me, but you're leaving...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0196par0651	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0652	Why didn't you tell me what they didn't tell you, brother, why didn't you tell me? You're making him insult you here, and you're acting out of line to the congressman.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0197par0653	Mayor, this doesn't suit you either.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0654	Someone has just recommended it, Mr. President, that it is not right to answer this inappropriate statement. He said that responding to this vulgar behavior is not an appropriate job for the MP. But do you know what I went out for? When we made tax peace for the first time in 2003 -- when we did it in March 2003 -- I'm the MP, you're the Deputy Prime Minister, you're the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of these questions; you're the first one to bring it in. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Then black money...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0198par0656	It's not me!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0657	Aren't you a member of the Cabinet? You don't have an autograph? Then it was the bill, don't you have a signature? Is there or isn't there? You gave someone else power of attorney? You wrestled on the run again? Did you give someone else power of attorney in that bill? He didn't come as an offer, he came as a bill. Do you have a signature on the bill or not?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0198par0658	It was the offer brought by the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0659	Do you have it or not? Just say it.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0198par0660	I'll tell you now, I'll tell you now!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0661	Is there or isn't there? Do you have an autograph or not?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0198par0662	I'll tell you now!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0663	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I don't know why the congressman here was in such pain, why he found such a group, and I don't know if there's a problem amongst you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0199par0665	Why don't you tell me what's on it? Tell me what's on it!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0666	We talked, we did.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0199par0667	Why don't you tell me why you brought it? Why don't you tell me what's in it?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0668	Every clause we put in this law is made by consultations with the Deputy Directors of the Group, the Party Speakers.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0200par0670	Wait a minute! Wait a minute! Whoa, stop right there!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0671	Didn't you do it, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0200par0672	Stop right there! Stop right there!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0201par0673	What's in it? What are you bringing?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0674	Look, dear friends, believe me, I'm ashamed, ashamed.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0200par0675	We saw him last night.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0676	We've been working the same case in the same seats for years, but I didn't leave my case, you left yours.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0202par0678	That's your case? That's your case? That's your case?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0192par0679	Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0203par0681	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0204par0682	Mr. Altay, please come in.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0203par0683	He's accused Mr. Sener. We want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0204par0685	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0205par0687	You can't clean this up with a loud shout.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0206par0689	Yeah, do you have an autograph or not?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0205par0690	In 2003...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0207par0691	Mr. Sener, you speak not with your mind, but with your ambition, and you speak with us, and you speak with your ambition; you speak not with your mind, but with your heart.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0205par0692	I'll tell you if you listen.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0208par0693	Do you have an autograph or not?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0205par0694	In 2003, a draft law was adopted by the Council of Ministers. A text that the Finance Minister recommended and proposed came here, but...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0209par0696	Tell me if you have an autograph or not.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0210par0697	He's talking to us with his ambition, and no one knows what he's talking about.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0205par0698	Dear friends, what you've done is make this country the center of black money ever since 2009.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0211par0699	We're asking if you have an autograph or not.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0210par0700	Too much, too much, too much ambition, too much.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0205par0701	That's the seventh law proposal. There's an international standard for this, to be very exceptional in countries that have lived in extraordinary circumstances...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0210par0702	The day you resigned, everyone had a field day at the Ministry.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0205par0703	...in the Western countries and in the Eastern countries for the most part, such laws have been passed for one time. This kind of law was needed in Turkey as the government began, and it came out once in a positive environment for which both international institutions and the IMF (IMF) looked at it for the same reason that the market was able to afford it, but since 2009, you've been doing it continuously for 13 years.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0210par0704	Oh, so you're saying it's good, but it's bad when we do it? That doesn't absolve you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0205par0705	Look, do you know what the Peace of Being reads in 2016?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0210par0706	Did you sign that bill or not? Did you sign that bill, Mr. Sener? Yeah, tell me about it.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0205par0707	The question of those who brought their money to an account due to the Peace of the Being cannot be investigated.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0210par0710	Shame on you!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0205par0711	Shame on all of you!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0210par0712	Look at that, everybody's laughing. How could you be like that?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0212par0713	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0213par0715	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0212par0717	I have a brief request. Mr. Elitaş, while we're just making an assessment, there is a debate between groups at the Turkish Grand National Assembly; sometimes it's compromised, sometimes it's not compromised. Everything we do here, we do with the approval of other groups. I would never agree with the expression. That's right, Mr. Elitaş, when you told me about this three or four hours ago that I'm not a technical man, I said, "Friends will take a look." We'll have a list of motions from your office. The last time I sat here, this motion wasn't on my list. When I was in the back for a debate, this motion was put here ten minutes before it was processed, so I said to my technical friends, "Look at this." And that's how we figured it out, that's what it is. We don't accept: we see everything here, we discuss everything, we discuss it; if that meant that we agreed to what we were told, we wouldn't have to work until this hour in the House.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0213par0720	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0212par0721	That's all there is to it, and I want it to be known.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0213par0723	In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 59th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0214par0724	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0215par0725	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0213par0726	Mr. Dessertoglu, come in.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0215par0727	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about this motion. I want to tell the friends of the EC PARTY that the political line of Abdulattif Bey is out of the question: Look, this motion is a motion that brings a change of law in itself. So, there's a pattern, and if this House obeys these procedures, it'll be a respectable House, and we don't know anything about it. And just so you know, when this bill came, Mr. Elitaş, there was an agreement there, but after the agreement, there were 11 additional proposals for a 66-point law proposal, which is not true.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0216par0729	There are additions to the commission.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0215par0730	Why aren't these normally discussed in the Commission? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You must question your own conscience that such an important matter should not be discussed. Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0217par0734	Well, thank you, Mr. Tastyoglu.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0218par0735	Mr. President, to make a statement...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0217par0736	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0218par0737	Mr. President, it's 5:00-18 on this motion. I submitted the motion to the chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, informing political parties about the motions. There are these motions, one of the reasons these motions come to this moment: If we give them before June 30th, they will be in the frame. I said so.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0219par0738	It's not true!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0218par0739	Not you, not you. You said, "What does this proposal mean at about 8:00 or 8:30 in the back?" There was a difference in the June 30th motion, there was a difference in law enforcement, and the law must be heard by the public on June 30th.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0220par0741	Mr. Elitaş, two hours ago, have mercy, two hours ago. Can you turn on my microphone?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0221par0743	Mr. President, you should have brought it to the Commission yesterday.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0222par0744	Why didn't he come to the commission?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0223par0745	I get it.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0221par0746	The commission was held yesterday, the day before yesterday, why didn't he come to the Commission?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0224par0747	He's thinking about it later.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0223par0748	Now, my dear friends, we're not arguing, he'll give us his word. Now, here's the part about the motion in this framework where our fellow lawmakers can refuse, but on the subject... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've made this motion within the scope of the negotiations we've made. I'm finishing a sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0225par0753	It's already been voted, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0226par0754	Oh, Mr. President, it's like country coffee in here.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0225par0755	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0227par0756	Now, Mr. President, in the Prime Minister's system, in the previous system, the bill is submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under the signature of all ministers, including the Prime Minister, unless any Minister has signed it or authorized another Minister to sign it. He can't make it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but since 2018, it has been a matter of law offering only to lawmakers. At that time, all legislations from 2003 to 2018 came with the signatures of all ministers.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0225par0757	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0227par0758	If that person didn't sign like that, why did you sign it? Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0228par0760	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0761	Mr. Ismail, do you want a word?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0228par0762	We have a motion.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0763	Yeah, okay.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0228par0764	I'll take your word for it.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0765	Here you go, Mr. Tastyoglu.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0228par0766	Mr. President, when this motion came to us, believe me, I called Mr. Elitas. Isn't that right? I got in the back, called Mr. Elitas, wanted to know about it. Yeah, it's not really in any Parliament in the world that a motion of this size should be spoken in these last few minutes.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0767	Okay.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0228par0768	This, for example, doesn't suit me, please.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0770	There's a motion I'm having read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 60th Amendment to the Law shall be changed in accordance with the Law of State Officers and Law 375. The following article has been added to the decree under the Law's Rule No. 60-375. "EK MADDE 38-Ekli (II); A) The severance indicator in number (1) is of the number 13.500, B) The compensation indicator for number (2) is 12.300, C) (3) and (3/A) severance indicators of 15,000 ) The compensation indicator for number 4 is 15.700, D) The severance indicator for number 5 is 12,000, ) (6) and (7) of the number of compensation indicators of 11,000, D) (8) and (9) (a) of the 6,000 severance indicators included in row 9 (a) E) (9) severance indicator (b) of the number 5,000, The severance indicator (c) of the number f) (9) number (c) is 4,000, It's applied by addition. The president of the presidency will receive additional compensation, which will result in the officer's monthly coefficient of 16,000 indicators. Without this payment, no tax or deductions will be made except for the stamp tax. This compensation shall not be taken into account in the account of monthly, monthly, hike, compensation, fees, and so on, given the financial and social rights of the highest government official under his relevant legislation, which are determined on the basis of his financial and social rights, on the basis of any financial and social rights, on the calculation of another payment or price ceiling or under any name. Other laws do not apply against this joke. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Ali Şahin Mustafa Levent Karahocagil Fehmi Albay Özalan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0230par0793	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0794	No one wants to talk about the motion, so I'm having them read the motive. The monthly compensation for those in the presidential presidency's executive office is intended to be paid in addition to the financial and social rights of the highest state official and to re-set the compensation indicators of those who are taking their monthly, bonuses, every kind of financial and social rights and another payment or salary ceiling account, as well as those who are serving in the public administration staffs, on the basis of Article 375. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the 60th article: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 61 that I'm reading. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Except for the first sentence in the first joke of Article 41, which is supposed to be added to Article 375 and the first sentence of Article 375, and the first sentence of Article 375 of Article 375, and the first sentence of Article 41, which is included in the first joke of Article 41. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Fehmi Alpay Özalan Ali Şahin Mustafa Levent Karahocagil Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0231par0807	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0808	No one wants to talk about the motion. I'm having it read. The proposal is intended to comply with the provisions of Article 37 (37) which are envisioned to be added to Article 375 under Article 59 of the Law. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the 61st article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 62 that I'm reading. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to Article 29 of Article 29 of Turkish National Assembly Act 62/12/2011 and added to Article 29 of the Law of the National Assembly of Turkey. The financial rights of the joke (a), (a), (b) and (c) of those who have been appointed to the top positions, according to the provisions of the third sentences, continue to be given on the basis of their previous duties, except for the actual payment of the previous duties, in which they served for at least two years without interruption. Mustafa Elitaş Ramadan Can Atay Nice Habibe Öçal Yusuf Ziya Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0232par0823	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0824	No one wants to talk about the motion. A similar arrangement is also intended in Turkey's Executive Agency for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in accordance with regulations concerning senior public executives under Article 375 under the amendment. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 62nd article: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Congressmans, there's a motion for a new clause violation, I'll read the motion and submit it to the Commission. If the commission agrees to the motion with the majority, I will open the debate on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal 346 rows. The following joke has been added to Article 30 of the Law of the National Assembly of Turkey, dated 1/12/201 and on Article 6253. "9) A contractary end compensation is paid for employees who are employed under this clause, who come from public institutions and institutions, and who come from private institutions. In fact, Turkey has completed at least one year of service in the Grand National Assembly without interruption in military or birth; A) Under Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510, a continuous disability income, disability or disability allowance or a total payment is required. B) The end of the position required by your service, C) The dissolution or renovation of his contract, because they do not need his services, ) the right reason for the interested to terminate the contract, d) the loss of any of the necessary qualifications for hiring the interested person, e) the death of the interested, Those whose service contract expires due to the discovery of one of their cases, the gross monthly salary dressed in the service contract on the date of each full service year is paid at the end of the work. For more than a year, the amount calculated for the full year is paid as much as the amount that hit that time. When this compensation is paid, it will not be taken into account the period that has previously been assessed in terms of end-of-work compensation, bonuses and severance pay. The end-of-work compensation is not assessed in the bonus account, which will be paid in accordance with severance pay and Article 5434 of the Turkish Republic's Retirement Chest Act. In the event of death, it will be calculated according to the above sentence, which will be paid to the legal heirs of the deceased. The procedures and grounds for the end-of-work compensation are determined by the Presidential Court. Murat Minister Inspired Özcan Aygun Burcu Koksal Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0233par0848	Unfortunately, we don't have a single majority, we can't participate.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0849	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. There's a motion on Article 63, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to change the first joke of Law Article 6643 with Article 63 of Law Proposal No. 346 to the following, the second joke to be removed from the text of substance, and the "five years in its fifth joke to be replaced" in the form of "eight years, and the sixth one as follows. "c) The penalty for the conduct of art in the chamber area is that pharmacists, who have been suspended from performing art at least five times in a room area, or who have been banned from performing art at all times from performing art in the area of the room, which is a total of a hundred and eighty days of suspension from performing art in that room. "The defense cannot be punished without a plea. The defense can also be given in writing or verbally. Any member who does not give a written or verbal defense on the day reported to him within 15 days of the notice of the plea request, including allegations and findings, has given up his right to defend himself. Mustafa Elitaş Erkan Akçay Öznur Çuk Selim Gültekin Ayşe Sibel Ersoy Mustafa Arşgöz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0234par0862	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0863	No one wants to talk about the motion. The motion aims to strengthen the right to defend itself in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision and to effectively enforce the principle of quantitativeisation of the law in order to ensure that the statute of limitations on disciplinary measures can be determined as eight years, and that the statute of limitations on disciplinary action can also be established in disciplinary investigations, at least five times suspended from performing art in a room area. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 63, all those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. Turkey to the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the Law Proposal in accordance with the Law on State Officers and Laws 375. MADDE... - It is dated 31/5/2006 and added a temporary clause to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510. 88th Street -... As part of the first joke (a) of the 4th article, the employer employs long-term insurance arm provisions; a) In the same month of 2021, in the monthly bonus and service documents given to the institution or in the depositor's and bonus service declarations, the primer's main daily salary is not exceed the number of days of 179 Turkish liras and the total premiums reported under its insurancees, in 2022, in the monthly premium and service documents or the total number of premium paydays reported in financial and premium service statements, B) In 2022, for the first time in the year 2022, the total number of premiums are reported to be reported in the workplaces, In July of 2022, it will result in a multiplication of $3.33 Turkish lira per day for the return of July/December, which is kept from the insurance premiums the employers will pay for the establishment, which is covered by the unemployment insurance Fund. However, (a) the primer is based on 358 Turkish liras for private sector employers' businesses, which are subject to a collective contract of employment under the actual daily earnings of Law No. 6356. In the month/turn of this clause, under the period of January 2021, in December/turn of December, the monthly bonus and service certificate or bonus service declaration and the first joke of the 4th article (a) will not be issued under the minimum number of insurance-responsibles reported under the long-term insurance arm. If it turns out that an existing business has been established by closing a business under a different name or title or as a business unit or a direct or indirect partnership between companies with direct or indirect partnership ties, such as changing business ownership in private enterprises, the unemployment insurance Fund is resolved with a regular transaction to benefit from its contribution, or it does not apply to the prims of insurance providers in July 2022 to December/December/December/December/executed jobs that are not reported or missing. However, in the event of finding out that the gross monthly minimum wage for July 2022/turn in the month is not over a tenth of the amount of gross minimum wage, these clauses will continue to be imposed on the institution's 15 days of notice. In July 2022, when employers don't release their monthly bonus and service documents for the return of December/insurance/instruction and bonus service declarations during their legal time, they don't pay their insurance premiums during legal time, they don't report people they're working on in investigations and inspections of employees or they don't actually operate in the case of the reported insurance holders, they don't apply to the first clause (b). However, employers who have imposed on the institution the premium, administrative fines, and the tardiness and delay increase in these matters according to Article 48 of the Law 6183 are entitled to benefit from the joke sentence mentioned as long as this suspension and instalment continues. In implementing this clause, Article 14 of this law does not apply. The implementation of the first joke (a) is based on the monthly bonus and service notifications on the same month of the previous year, or on the first month's monthly bonus and service statement, which has been reported as not being given a monthly bonus or service declaration. The provisions of the first joke (b) on businesses that were adopted before 2021, but were not insured in 2021. In the event that insurance premiums are covered by the state, the employer's insurance premium is less than paid by the Unemployment Insurance Fund, there is only as much as an insurance premium. Under Article 3213 additional 9 of the Law, the fee will not be less than double the fee, "Linyit (Linyit) and "The premium payment in the implementation of the first joke (a) for the workers who work in the workplace is paid by 477 Turkish lira (a) to be determined in accordance with me (a) the monthly payment in the month of the year of 2021, as well as the amount of payment in the amount of monthly payouts and bonuses reported in the service documents or in bonuses and bonus service statements reported in 2021, not to exceed 50 per cent of the amount of the month's salary and service documents. These provisions are not applied to the insurance holders who work under the first clause (a) of the fourth clause in the staff and positions of the public administration (I) which are included in the Article 5018. The first joke of Article 2 of Law 4734 (a), (b), (c) and (d) by the regulations of the administrations concerned, shall be cut off from the rights of the unemployment insurance Fund in the tender document in which the employee's number is determined and the entire week's work hours are expected to be used in the administration. These provisions will not be applied for those who are registered in the monthly bonus and service documents given to the institution, or to the Treasury and Finance Ministry and the premium service declarations, except for the legal deadline for July 2022/December/turn. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined by the Institution by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and by the opinion of Turkey's Business Institution. Mustafa Elitaş Ramazan Can Asuman Erdoğan Erkan Akçay Semiha Ekci Vildan Yilmaz Gürel Fatma Betül Sayan Kaya Bayram Özçelik Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0235par0896	Mr. President, our Commission has a pure majority. We're mostly in favor of a motion for a new substance.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0897	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. No one wants a word. I submit the new item to your votes: Those who don't... The new substance has been accepted and a new clause has been added to the proposal. In order not to cause any confusion, the negotiations of the proposal will be continued through the number of items in the current number of rows in the text, which will be identified by item numbers during the draft of the law. There's a motion on a temporary one, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the third sentence of the second sentence of the temporary article of the current Law Proposal 346 rows, we propose and propose that the same title of the same article be changed into the same precedent and added the following joke to the article. The subject is not to be a crime and is not subject to a determined judicial decision, which has been determined to provide social balance compensation to its staff from cash to the date of its execution, or for authorities, municipalities, municipal municipalities, card, ticket, ticket, or ticket, or a payment tool to carry out the delivery of these payments tools through the budget, and those who have been informed that the Article 32 of the Law issued social balance compensation, contrary to Article 32's Articles of Article 32's provisions, will be removed from the administrations, municipalities, municipal municipalities, and employees, and those who have begun to conduct administrative or financial proceedings against the provisions of the law. (AS/TK) Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Abdullah Güler Selim Gültekin Necip Nasır Tamer Mountain Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0236par0910	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0229par0911	No one wants to talk about the motion. In matters related to public personnel given to the President's Office of Strategy and Budget, with the motion dated 20/4/2021, it is ensured that the relevant staff of the public staff can be assigned to positions in accordance with the situation of the relevant personnel that ensures that the state of the public personnel can be conducted under the mandate of the interagency data-sharing and exchange. In addition, the motion recommends a provision of the state's private administrations, municipalities, major city municipalities and organisations to ensure that there will be no trial and no follow-up, provided it does not constitute a crime on public damages stemming from payment of food benefits and social balance compensation. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the interim article 1. Those who don't... Sustained. There is one motion on Article 64, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 64 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment to the Law of State Officers and Law 375. A) 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 14th, 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd, and 60th, B) The 13th and 16th article was released in July of 2022 on the date of its release from the period of payment, C) on 15/7/2022, D) Articles 17th and 18th in January 2023, e) at the beginning of the month, following the release of Articles 27 and 28, F) In the date of its release of other substances, It's in effect. Mustafa Elitaş Mohammed Levent Ramadan Can Kayseri Sakarya Gırıkkale Recep Special Tamer Mountain Isparta Adana Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0237par0930	Mr. President, we'll leave it to discretion. No one wants to talk about the motion. The motion aims to establish a technical arrangement for the implementation date of law proposals.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0238par0935	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 64th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 65th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the third section are complete. Before voting on the entire proposal, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, MP of Kayseri, favoured to show the color of the game under Article 86 of the Civil Code. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0239par0942	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. In June, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey performed very importantly. First of all, in the last week, the additional budget for 2022 this week was approved by the votes of our esteemed members of parliament, a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. After that, a law proposal was accepted to regulate the status of our citizens who were facing the price of military service. Lastly, the law proposal for the legal arrangement for electronic trade was accepted today, and today we have implemented a law proposal of 65, 66 articles, from its workers to its employees, from its villagers to its farmers, from its farmers to its public interests. It's been a difficult process, really, with regard to indicators, in the process of retirement, there was certainly a large majority of the public's expectations about the 3600 additional indicators, but it would be wrong to say that we've covered all of that, and we've been able to afford some of it. In the process, we've done a lot of work, a lot of work. As we prepared this law proposal, we and our fellow lawmakers, as Deputy Group Presidents, experienced a really intense process of working as Group Presidents of the Cumhur Alliance, and signed the law proposal. Under the recommendation of our political party groups for the meeting of the bill, which we signed 48 hours later, according to Article 36 of the Civil Charter, we agreed that the Plan Budget Commission would meet 48 hours later, even 12 hours later, and in the framework of these talks, our valued national friends from all parties shared their very values, their opinions, and their opinions.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0240par0945	Take your hand out of your pocket, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0239par0946	I'm sorry... part of those ideas were welcomed, part of them were rejected. So they said, let's do that, and let's do that. But what we think is reasonable in power, we said, "Yes." We said, we don't happen to those who don't." And today, with the latest clause, we have achieved a net minimum wage increase of 30 per cent from July 1st, as of July 1, 2022, when we first increased the net 50 per cent minimum wage as a result of talks conducted by our Minister of Labour Vedat Bilgin. In total, cumulatively, it came out of a minimum wage of close to 95 percent. It's kind of debatable, but as you know, if the minimum wage had been taxed in the past, every increase in minimum wage was a matter of public finance. Again, at the end of December 2021, during our talks, we made a statement not about minimum wage, but about the tax evasion of all wages, as much as the minimum wage, with our Precious Group Vice President, the Plan and Budget Commission, and on that day with the valued members of the Plan and Budget Commission, not just the minimum wage, but all salary revenues, if there is a minimum wage, we exempted the amount of £5,004 from taxes, and we continue. It has been said over the years: let's keep the Asian fee tax-free. But we have taken further steps, making the minimum wage of everyone with minimum wage exceptions from taxes. (APPLAUSE) Working together, putting our heads together with the Cumhur Alliance, while our fellow officials, on the other hand, our members of the group, prepared these proposals for the law as much as possible, very focused, very involved, very involved law proposals. We don't claim to be perfect, but there are certain flaws, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0241par0950	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0239par0951	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me... one more minute.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0241par0952	We didn't, we never made any promises.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0239par0953	Mr. President, I'll thank you. It's a holiday...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0241par0955	Here's the last word.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0239par0956	I think we took that process together. I would like to thank our esteemed President, our Commission's experts, our parliamentary friends, our lawmakers, our lawmakers, our lawmakers, our friends, who are willing to contribute by their speech and not being members of the Commission. It's the Blessed Sacrifice Day, July 9th. Today, for a few days, we have dear brothers, friends, religious friends who have been going to Kaabaimuazamah to perform the Hajj Farizah, and I hope that their pilgrimage will be accepted and that it will be a blessing. On the 9th of July, we will understand the Day of the Sacrifice. I congratulate you today on the feast of the sacrifice of our entire nation. Starting today, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is going on vacation until October 1st, and I wish all of our MPs happy holidays. I salute you all.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0242par0963	Okay, thank you. Against him, Mr. Engin Altay, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0243par0967	Sir, the opposition has more right to speak, and if you've given power one minute, I hope you'll give the opposition two.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0242par0968	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0243par0969	Mr. President, I salute your Grace and the Grand General Assembly. We discussed the additional budget on Tuesday and Wednesday, where we put out all our reservations. We said that the additional budget was for workers, civil servants, minimum wage, housewives, pensioners, students, not just a handful of minorities, for rich people with Kur Protections, for private cooperation contractors, bank bosses. And we discussed military law on Thursday. We've partially recovered from the wounds of members of our glorious army, inadequate, and I said, once again, you've made us say yes to something, and on Thursday we've done something else; we would have spent the E-commerce Act, which Mr. Mehmet Mush has brought in by the E-commerce Act, if it weren't for the AK PARTI executives. The EC PARTY executives are a little delayed due to their indecisiveness. Do you know why we were supposed to spend 40 minutes? It was a noble, native, quality, national law that waged war on imperialism and monopoly. (HPP) Well done, Minister of Commerce! Leave our stand against such laws to your consciences, but as opposition, we will no doubt call them wrong. In this framework, we have finished the Law of State Officers today, which is missing; this law has been marketed to millions of public servants, millions of pensioners, and so it has been declared. We didn't block anything here either. Why didn't we? We've mentioned 3,600 times 3,600. (Applause from CHP rows) We said that we were retired, that he couldn't go to old coffee and drink tea. We said, "The students who left the university for economic reasons in such a painting are miserable, they need forgiveness." We said, "They're in this bag." But I say again: You shall not make us do a full, full, full one. Because what did you do? Like, what did you do? For military, property, legal, academic public staff and all civil servants, there is a dissolution within the institution, a disorderly approach within the institution. Yes, 3600 has arrived. Not from martyrdom, but from our heroic officers, petty officers and police, who are afraid of retiring, we'll call it yes, no one will doubt it. If 3600 came today, it's our work. I'm sorry. [[Applause from CHP rows]] That's why it's minimum wage! For God's sake! For God's sake! Congressmans, how can the President today say 5,500, when the hunger limit is $6,391? So a conscience... let's make other sacrifices, stop some investments if we have to. But at this minimum wage, I said 6 percent above the 6,391 hunger limit, as you did at 4,253, then at 4,253, you gave 6 percent over the hunger limit, and now I said it was natural to do the same, and I just said today -- a half hour before the announcement -- the minimum wage is to pay less than 6,770, it's to disrespect the sweat, it's to steal labor. It's not right, it shouldn't be. Dear friends, now -- Article 50 -- the issue of the argument is this: there is; there has been for nine or ten years. Why do you have it? You need it. What do you need it for? This, in fact, is a clear indication of the state's bankruptcy, you need this, you need this; I'm not going into the same argument. After all, we'll shut down the House again, the House is closing, but it's broken again.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0244par0976	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0243par0977	Tomorrow, Turkey will wake up from our police to our petty officer, our officer in the deed office to our academic, from the Supreme Court to a painting that we can't exactly please anyone. So, hopefully, we'll fix this in the new era. Speaking of the new era, the Constitution will interrupt the works of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from 1 July to 1 October, according to Article 5th Amendment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I wish you all a happy holiday to those who want to take a vacation, to those who want to work.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0245par0980	A vacation would suit you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0243par0982	Mr. President, the last speech...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0246par0983	Pack it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0243par0984	But know one thing, during this legislative period, we had to take the regiment to the Constitutional Court, except for the 19 laws you passed -- except for the international agreements. Yeah, I don't know what's gonna happen. We're not doing this for fun, we're doing this because the laws that come out of this place are crooked somewhere, dear friends. We don't want that to happen. I don't want to use the mayor's leniency and your patience too much. My last word: 3600, which has come under the insistence of the Republican People's Party, and an increase in student forgiveness and the lowest pension of a thousand liras, may be a blessing and a blessing. Thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0247par0988	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0248par0989	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0247par0991	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0249par0992	Is that what happened, Mr. President? Five minutes on the side, on the contrary.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0248par0993	Wait a minute, guys, I promised it'd be the last day.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0249par0994	Oh, yeah, okay.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0248par0995	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0250par0996	Don't talk?
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0249par0997	No, go ahead, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0251par0998	Mr. President, he's being questioned for doing something that isn't in the Civil Code. It is done by the president's discretion, and they ask what our friends are.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0249par0999	So it wouldn't be wrong.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0252par1000	I'm here with the president's compliments, so if you'd like, I'd like to take my place.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0251par1001	That's right, we don't mind. According to the Civil Charter 86, the President invited him.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0252par1002	Dear friends...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0253par1003	At least you're in charge of the House. You run it, if you know what I'm talking about!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0254par1004	Please let me talk!
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0252par1005	We don't need you. You talk enough.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0254par1006	Thanks, we'll listen.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0252par1007	Very dear friends, at the end of this busy working period, I would like to share my party's views very briefly. Really, we've tried to draw a line as the new party of this House. We said we didn't come under oath from the budget, and we voted positive for all the items that we thought were right and proper, including the budget. Members of the EC PARTY and Nationalist Movement Party in particular in the Plan and Budget are their witnesses, and our line has always been this way. Now, I'm afraid we've come across another bag of law-enforcement offers in the course of the law. We've been talking about the rights of public employees, shouting, expressing the age of pensioners and 3600 additional indicators from the beginning. Twenty-three articles of this 66 law proposal are related to this additional indicator, so we have agreed to say yes to this law proposal, and we have stated that we will support it. But I'm afraid I have to point out that when 66 articles of law came to the General Assembly, there were 12 motions near the end of the night. These are the things that happen when the foreign currency comes to the agenda, and it is reasonable, but it is necessary to stress that it is not really relevant to this Parliament and its legislation. As for minimum wage...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0255par1011	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0252par1012	Just a minute... let me finish, sir.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0255par1013	We can't, so you know it wasn't right to make promises there.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0252par1014	Okay. I congratulate all our nation and all of you on the Feast of Sacrifice. He says, "Hopefully, it will be a blessing." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0256par1018	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0257par1019	Mr. Beştaş, I promise you your position.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0256par1020	On the stand...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0257par1021	He's not right, we've done wrong, let's not go on wrong. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0256par1023	Mr. President, thank you. Well, as of tonight, Congress is going on vacation, and I wish everyone first good holidays or good work. And there's the Feast of Sacrifice, and I'm already celebrating the Feast of Sacrifices of all our people and deputies. In fact, we said no to the law we find wrong here, and yes to those we find correct. We've always tried to be objective, and we believe we are. Yesterday, we said yes to the Ministry of Commerce's law because it contained positive regulations for the free market conditions. In this proposal, we defended 3,600, we defended student forgiveness, but we never find those exceptions that took away the right to study acceptable. So there will be an arrangement in this country that will even block the right to study.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0258par1027	One minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0256par1029	We found the arrangement for the disabled correct, but we also found that the inequality, discrimination, inequality in this law proposal, was not right. Yes, students are in real trouble today. We've always been against the law of the bag. Despite the provisions we find favourable in this proposal, we will vote no, and we sincerely believe that this system must be corrected because of the negative regulations and because of the constraint of the bag law, because of the systematic way it has been imposed on us. We've already said a lot of things about this proposal as opposition, but we still hope it's good luck, as well as the positive arrangements it brings. We wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0259par1033	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0260par1034	Thank you, Mr. President. We've had a very busy shift as the General Assembly of Turkey this week, and we find that the important laws, the additional budget, the military law, the law on electronic trade, the election of members of the Court, and now the talks of this law proposal, which includes Article 346, 65, and many regulations. We, the National Movement Party Group, have supported these arrangements, both on commissions and on the General Assembly and on every platform, and will vote positively for this Law Proposal 346 rows.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0259par1037	Here you go, one minute.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0260par1038	As the National Movement Party, in particular with additional indicator arrangements and other issues, with our proposals and proposals, and many issues involved in our party programme and election declarations are also satisfactory as the National Movement Party Group, and we have made significant and major contributions. I wish all these arrangements to our nation, to our country, to all our citizens. Thank you, and I wish you all a good evening on October 1st. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-07-01sit04spe0261par1041	Congressmans, this concludes the final merger of the 27th Legislature of the Fifth Legislative Year. I'd like to thank all of our lawmakers, members of the Group, members of the Presidential Court, and all of the employees of the administrative department who have been involved in this intensive year of legislature. On this occasion, I now congratulate you, our beloved nation, on the blessed Feast of Sacrifice, and wish that the festival bring blessings to our country and all mankind, and give you my regards. [[Applause]] The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronics: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'm asking lawmakers who can't get into the system to ask the technical staff for help, but I'm asking the lawmakers who can't get into the system to deliver ballots to the presidency during the time of the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'm reading the result of the open vote: Ankara MP Orhan Yegin and 53 MPs' Law on State Officers and Laws of 375 Laws and Amendments to the Constitution of 375 Laws are an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 341 [[x]] This conclusion says the offer has been accepted and legalized, so best of luck. The issues on our agenda are complete. It is Saturday, October 1, 2022, in accordance with the Constitution and the Interior Charter, that we discuss the work that is on the agenda, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
