tbmm-2022-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Dear MPs, I am opening the 1st Unification of the Sixth Legislature of the 27th Legislature of Turkey. We've got enough for a meeting, so I'm going on the agenda. We have gathered for the opening of the Sixth Year of Legislature of the 27th Legislature. I hope to God that this year of law, the year of law, the work, the decisions and the laws to be made, the nation, the state, the people with the love of Turkey in their hearts, the so-called relatives and relatives, will bring blessings for all mankind, and contribute to the success of the great Turkish cause. As we enter the sixth and final year of the 27th century, we can say that this period has witnessed history. First of all, this is the first legislature of the presidential government system. Again, it is a period of witnessing the efforts of our lawmakers, who have experienced the global Covid-19 epidemic, which has been affected for nearly two and a half years, and have devoted their efforts despite severe epidemic conditions. In the 27th century, we also understood the 100th anniversary of events vital to our nation and our state. The first step to salvation in the face of the threat of invasion and invasion is the emergence of Veteran Mustafa Kemal. The Amasya Tamimi, Erzurum and Sivas Congress are among the historic and national events in which our Grand and Gazi Parliament has become its headquarters in Ankara. Hopefully, on the next legislature, October 29, 2023, we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the republic's declaration with national excitement and pride. On this occasion, I thank and thank you all our veterans and martyrs, especially those who fought to free our country, to make our nation free, to make our nation strong, and to make our state fully independent, and to not give way to all your friends, the honorable members of the First Assembly, the Honourable Poet of the First Assembly, and our sons, who attacked the nation's estate on the night of July 15, 2016. The national struggle, of course, is at the heart of these historical events, where we remember their 100th year. For the national struggle is the summation of the great cause and faith that made Asia Minor a homeland, and the first word and inspiration of the heroics that will follow. Dear friends, a state, a historic era, is considered a whole, but the approach is not scientific and reasonable. In this context, the Ottoman Empire is a state of war where we are proud to be a continuation, to exercise our power, to perform our rule of order. A thousand years ago, we are obliged to consider the events that began with the expeditions of Mr. Caller, which accelerated with the victory of 1071 Malazzirt, and which so far we enjoy or dislike the history of Turkey. It is the bitter and sweet events of this thousand-year-old history that have made us our homes in this land. Therefore, the more wrong and unacceptable it is to disrupt Turkey's geographical union, the more dangerous, wrong and unofficial it is to break the history of Turkey, which different states, structures, executives have built in perpetuity. We need to see Turkey as its complements, not enemies or rivals, no matter how far Turkey has advanced, no matter how far it's advanced, no matter how far it's advanced. Those who strive to promote this land, our nation, our national honor, our glorious flag, the great and powerful Turkey case, are ours; it is ours, ours. From this sentence, Seljuklu is ours, and the Ottomans are ours; of course, and of course, first of all, the Republic of Turkey is ours, all of us. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE]] We are going through a period of great uncertainty on a global scale, when international organisations, conventional relations and camps have been neutralized; when the climate of conflict and war has had political, economically challenging, traumatic, and even destructive consequences. At such a time when history has accelerated, old alliances and balances have been broken, new balances have been established, the importance of political and statesmen with these positions is increasing, the positions that are sincerely and consistent in international relations ahead of peace, justice and rights. In this framework, we are pleased to see that Turkey has become more and more prominent as an internationally trusted and respected actor. Recently, the resolution of the grain crisis, due to the participation of Mr. Guterres, the United Nations Secretary General of the United Nations, from the war on Russia-Ukraine, could affect the entire world, is a good example of Turkey's constructive role on the world scale. As you know, the solution to this problem led by Turkey has come from many international organisations, particularly the United Nations, and from different country leaders. Of course, none of this thank you is more valuable to Turkey than the smile of a child whose stomachs have been fed in food shortages and poor countries. In addition, Turkey has led by our President's mediation to the exchange of prisoners between Russia and Ukraine, which the two countries care deeply about. This also shows concrete how valuable Turkey's attitude and actions are to the resolving of the major crisis in our region. Regardless of the changing circumstances, Turkey will continue to work for peace, despite the hypocrisy of some states, the policies that support war. For that reason alone, Turkey is always obliged to be more powerful, more equipped in every field, especially information and defence technologies. Because the idea of Turkey, as I've said many times before, has a much greater impact than the borders of Turkey, is the name of the hope of innocent and oppressed nations, especially the children of common history and civilization. All the world's forces, especially the states in our region, should not make the mistake of ignoring Turkey's demands based on international law, historical and geographical rights. It would be a fatal and destructive mistake for those who feel that they can give up a single drop of the land of our beloved nation, a single drop of the blue land. Our sensitivity to friendship, diplomacy, and peace will, of course, continue after this, but this sensitivity does not change the fact that our national character, who does not leave the good without compassion, without punishment, will not stop from making a move against the violent ones who are hostile to Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Honourable MPs, our beloved nation, one of the things that honors our history, which makes our nation a saint is the uninterrupted disregard for justice, the establishment of justice and oppression. From this sentence, Turkey has made great efforts to free and free the lands occupied by Armenia by Brother Azerbaijan. It was possible to free Karabakh (Karabakh) as this effort went from being an emotional support and turned to an effective co-operation. Azerbaijan, along with a 45-day epic campaign of homelands, has ended a lawless war that has been going on for nearly 30 years. To cooperate with Azerbaijan is a national debt and obligation that cannot be avoided. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Honourable MPs, we are also entering a crucial period in developments related to the Eastern Mediterranean and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Turkey is determined to protect and defend all rights and interests it has under international law at all times and through all means. In an approach to the fact that there are two different peoples and two different states on the island of Cyprus, Turkey supports the approach of the Turkish Cypriot President, Mr. Ersin Tatar (Turkish Republic). We know that the Greek approach, which denies the existence and rights of the Turkish community on the island, is the biggest obstacle to the solution. Our Grand National Assembly of Turkey has always agreed to a common position in the Cyprus case, leaving political differences aside; it will then continue to stand next to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and support its rightful cause. My dear friends, being a member of this great Assembly, which is the headquarters of the national struggle and laying the foundations of our republic, it is an honor, honor, honor, and honor to strive for the welfare of our nation and for the power of our state. A hundred years ago, the spirit of the team that ran to the national battle station to preserve the national dignity that our nation passed down from generation to generation, and to justify its desire for full independence, is undoubtedly the presence of the Veteran Assembly, which is under its roof today. As members of the Veteran Assembly today, the lesson that we will receive from the First Assembly, which drives and manages the national struggle, is not only the courage of that leading staff; even if the strongest arguments are held in secret hearings, even if the differences of opinion are expressed in a heated manner -- in public sessions -- is that the public's awareness of action and appearance is the most important legacy left to us from the First Assembly. In this framework, our nation's expectations of us lawmakers are that when it comes to Turkey's national interests internationally, we put aside the points of conflict in domestic politics and act jointly on the basis of the national consciousness. Dear guests, precious lawmakers, today, at the end of this year of the first day of the legislature we meet, our country's President and MP will go to the general elections in less than a year, and our nation will once again determine the President's preferences with lawmakers who will represent his will. This process represents a democratic race for peace and peace for all of our political parties to participate in the election, in order to be able to participate in the fulfillment of the ideal of a strong and fully independent Turkey. I have full faith that Turkey will address this upcoming election with great democratic maturity, as has been in other elections so far. I hereby wish that the elections at the end of the sixth year of the Legislature should be good for our country, our nation, and our state. On this first day of the year of the Sixth Legislature, where we set foot in the service of our nation, I want to complete my words with the promise that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the first President of the Veteran Assembly in 1923, said under this roof, the heart of our nation, the conscience, and the presence of our nation. May our new year of life be blessed, and I salute you all. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, the opening statement for the new year of legislation is now in session at the General Assembly Hall. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY ranks, standing up from the ranks of MHP and the Good Party]] Now, we'll read our Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] [[Applause]] Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-10-01sit01spe0002par0033	My dear people, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with my deepest feelings, with conversation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish that the year of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, with you, the year of the Sixth Legislature of the 27th term, be good for our country and our nation. From the establishment of our House, I give thanks to all the MPs who serve our country under this great institution today. I pray for God's mercy to those who have died from our MPs who have served in our Parliament since their first operation in 1920. The first President of our Grand National Assembly, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, is a tribute to all those who strive for the development, growth, strengthening of Turkey. For a thousand years, I have blessed all our martyrs and veterans who have sacrificed their lives for the defense of our country, the integrity of our nation, the integrity of our country, the sake of our state. Turkey's issue of sovereignty and future is the name of a blessed struggle that extends across the ages. Today, we continue to fight the same battle within and beyond our borders. I wish you the best of luck to our soldiers, our police, our gendarmes, our Coast Guard personnel, our intelligence officers, our security guards, who have led the terrorist organizations. I pray that my Lord, along with all the members of our nation, will protect and spare our brothers and sisters, and not touch their feet with stones. Since the years of the national struggle, the Turkish Grand National Assembly has played a leading role in resolving every issue of this country's life, meeting every expectation of our nation. Today, I believe you have fulfilled and fulfilled the historic mission of our Parliament with both the laws issued during the 27th and the commissions and the proposals pending on the General Assembly agenda, as well as with the work that will follow. As it is known, today is the opening of the last year of our 27th annual legislature. I believe our parliament will make the best of this year of life by implementing many critical regulations before taking a break from its work according to the election calendar. In the elections Turkey will go to about eight months later, both the legislative body Turkey will determine members of our Grand National Assembly and its representative, the President. We will make these choices at a time when the world and our region are truly historical, when centuries of balances are shaken at the root, when political, economic and military power centers are reinvented. As lawmakers of the 27th century, I believe you have taken your place in the hearts of our nation as a body that has successfully fulfilled the requirements of the mission you have been taking on. This great honor will be your greatest legacy to your children. For your service to our country, to our nation, to our coven, I now thank each and every one of you separately. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) I would also like to thank our political party group administrations and the Council of Parliament for their contribution to all phases of parliamentary work from the Commissions to the General Assembly. Honourable MPs, first in the national struggle, and lastly on the night of July 15th, our Parliament, honored by the title "Gazi" has an exception to its qualities among the world's parliaments. At one point, our country was charged with accusations that it could not internalize democracy because it obtained it without paying the price. Now we're looking at a Turkish Grand National Assembly that has established the covenant infrastructure of the most ambitious democratic and development programmes in the last quarter century. Now, we have here a Parliament that resists the coupters and makes no qualms about the superiority of the national will. We now face a Parliament that, despite any threat, protects the rights, the law, the interests of the people he represents. Now, unlike global trends, we're dealing with a Parliament that maintains its strongest ties to its nation. One of the reasons why our parliament and our lawmakers have been subjected to slander from time to time is this painting. Those who insist that Turkey be treated as a client, who want to see it politically and economically, in its position, are also disturbed by the honorable position of our Parliament. (EC PARTY Applause) But we're moving forward, not with who says what, who wants what, what our nation needs, what our country needs, how it lives, how it works, how it works, how we move on. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] This Parliament has signed the most radical reforms in the history of the Republic. One of the most important reforms that we've carried out in this process that shed light on our future and our future is, without a doubt, the change we've made in our management system. I believe we've made each of the democratic men with the presidential government system the most powerful, most effective, most efficient in their field. In the past, legislation, executive and judiciary, which have given a destructive appearance of competition, rather than a democratic balance, is now working with an understanding that supports each other in the same common cause. In light of our experiences in our new management practices, which have left its fourth year behind in the coming period, we plan to further develop the system with an understanding that will complete its shortcomings, that will explore its strengths. We can't keep our country out of this in a time when the world and our region have had major changes in every area. We will continue to renew ourselves based on Turkey's needs, expectations, abilities to use its potential, and experience. We are born again every day, and we follow the path of wisdom in the word of Jonah, which is weary of us. Now we must say new things, as we follow the direction his majesty has recommended with encouragement in his verse. We view it as our responsibility to remain faithful to this approach and take the necessary steps to our nation, which we are committed to with all our heart. Of course, we will build and implement these complementary reforms along with our supreme Assembly of the presidency's government system. Hopefully, that will be at the top of our common agenda in the coming period of life and execution. Another issue that remains in our hearts is to restore our country to a new, civil, democratic, inclusive, simple, visionary constitution. Our sincere calls on the new constitution in 2013 and 2021 were not enough to bring our country together with such a win. The first study was blocked by the joint commission in the House, and we received no concrete response to our second call. I believe our new term parliament will bring Turkey to its rightful meeting with the new constitution and erase the final trail of the coup eras. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) At the same time, we owe a debt to future generations, the greatest achievement we can give our young people in the coming years. Just as we've carried out the silent revolutions that have brought our people's fundamental rights and freedoms to the very top, hopefully we'll be able to complete the new constitution study. We have saved Turkey from the shame of custody, coups, pressures, persecutions; we have saved our citizens from being despised by origin, faith, religion, sex, clothing, and culture. With the new constitution, we'd like to make these achievements the covenant basis. Dear lawmakers, when we look at Turkey's last 20 years, we see that we have left behind the areas of trouble that have occupied our nation's agenda for a long time. One of them, for example, was the concern of peace and trust caused by terrorist organizations' bloody attacks. For many years, the number one issue of our country's agenda has always been a matter of terror. The operations we've done, the measures we've taken, the multi-directional diplomacy that we've followed, as we've ended terrorist organizations within our borders, we've almost paralyzed them outside our borders, creating a new climate of security and peace. No one who puts his hand on his conscience can deny this fact. The only attempts by terrorists are the last of these traitors, I hope. We're on the lookout for terrorists with our security forces, our military and intelligence services. We have strengthened our security forces with the means and the ability to ensure that our country will be able to function at the highest level, both in the fight against terrorism and in the face of regional and global threats. By destroying threats at the source of our country's security, our strategy to start our nation's peace outside our borders, we can come suddenly one night. We continue to apply it as an expression. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the past 20 years, the centuries of artifacts and services that we have brought to our country have also eliminated the problems of our nation's generations of backwardness, poverty, deprivation. In a moment, the work and service briefs I will share with you will remind you once again of the eyes that see this truth, the ears that hear it, the languages that acknowledge the right, the hearts that don't calluse. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We don't have a single person from education to health, from transport to energy, from industry to agriculture, from sport to social support, where our works and services don't touch their lives, they don't improve their quality of life. Throughout our multi-party political lives, we have left behind the period of repeated coups, thanks to our nation, which has claimed its sovereignty on July 15th, and our Parliament, which has not brought down the dignity of national will, especially its reputation. On this occasion, the 15th of July reminiscess of our martyrs, and I give thanks again to our lawmakers who have shown epic resistance to the House on the same night. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] While working to improve, grow, strengthen our country, improve the welfare of our nation, make life easier, we have also struggled with the heavy effects of global crises. Moreover, we, along with global crises, were obliged to face the attacks on our country. As a matter of fact, from June 2018, when the presidential and parliamentary elections were held, our world has experienced the harshest tests since the Second Jahan War. In addition to global trials, we, Turkey, have also dealt with the entrapment of the economy at its centre. As a country and as a nation, a title or a title is important, but the matter of the economy that touches our people's daily lives is also important. For this reason, I would like to share with you now our economic programme, the basic logic, and its outlines, which we have imposed since 2018, to protect ourselves from the burning and destructive effects of global crises such as plague and war. We were able to evaluate our approaches to the Turkish economic model with a group of foreign economists in Istanbul yesterday. As I put it, the economic policy that we apply is certainly not based on an irrational purpose, such as rowing to distress. On the contrary, we've developed our own model to break down the sneaky games we've been exposed to in a way that's so good, so right, so profitable, that we've always been exposed to against economic policies. More importantly, this model has a place in both economics and in the world, where there are examples and our country is at the highest level compatible with the reality and potential that we have. So we've chosen a way for ourselves -- no matter how you look at it -- to give our country unique gains. Dear lawmakers, to be honest, we didn't go to the economic model for no reason. If they hadn't tried to change the rules of the game against us during the game, maybe we wouldn't have needed it for a while, but when our country was faced with an open economic attack, whatever we did to protect our borders, we took the same attitude as we did to the coups. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) By taking advantage of the opportunities that global developments have brought to our attention, we have turned our course with understanding into the future. We built our own unique model of economics with the highest use of the experience of the world and our country. First of all, we've taken measures to intercept the attacks we've been subjected to, we've created mechanisms, we've found resources. However, we have created a consistent structure by rapidly updating our short, medium and long-term programmes to our new economic approach. At each stage, we've shared the theoretical framework of this model and the results of its applications and our goals with our nation, and we continue to share. We didn't neglect the world when we made our own way. We watched closely the tragedies of the epidemic and the crises triggered by the Russian-Ukraine war that followed it. Each global development confirms the accuracy and accuracy of this original model, which our country has created by separating itself from classical acceptances. In the success and acceptance of Turkey's economic model, the infrastructure we've acquired in our country over the past 20 years has had a huge contribution to production and employment because at the heart of our model of economics, which we sum up as investment, employment, production, exports, and growing our country through a lot, is human. We've designed the model to ensure that each of our citizens can look to their future as business and food owners, and to do so by developing investments, production, exports. At first, we follow with example that the environments that strongly criticised us for this choice have come to the same point as us, following threats of energy, commodity, and food crisis. That is why the developed countries have taken a veiled approach to protecting employment beyond the policies they have expressed in the zahir. Otherwise, no one can overcome the social problems and political instability that will come with it. The difference between us, seeing this fact before anyone else, is that we took our position early. Of course, we never ignore the problems, the problems, the fluctuations. We are well aware of the welfare losses, concerns, expectations, and expectations of our country and citizens from the unstable rise in foreign currency and an increase in inflation, and we have begun to take measures from the very first day. Remember, last December, when the exchange rate began to rise erratically, we blocked the panic with a series of measures, including currency-protected deposits. To avoid the loss of our people's welfare levels, we raised the minimum wage, civil servants' salaries, pensions, social welfare figures in New Year's Eve, and with additional regulations in July, we moved these increases further. Hopefully, next Christmas, we'll revisit the situation of all the taxpayers to make amends for their losses. As I've always said, we will not allow any of our citizens to be overwhelmed by inflation. (EC PARTY Applause) We hope to set an example for the world, especially in the developed countries, to compensate for the losses caused by inflation, which is the biggest problem of all states. We are determined to remove all obstacles ahead of him one by one to ensure that Turkey proceeds towards its goals as a stabilisation island in the midst of global political, economic, military power struggles. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Global fluctuations have brought countries to the brink of a new kind of war with different methods and styles than the usual, while we will separate ourselves from this fragile process. We've been dealing with some of the regional crises that we've been dealing with recently, not with puppets, but with strategies to disrupt the game of those who've been pulling their strings. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, those who have forgotten the old days of Turkey, think the country has always been like this; they had these works, these services, these opportunities. The ancients say that memory is damaged by five Nisyans. However, the summation of the summary is enough to show where Turkey has come from in 20 years. This painting will allow our young people to see the change of the century that our country has experienced in twenty years. In 2002, we made a promise to our citizens that we had taken over the responsibility of running the country, thanks to our nation, that we would raise Turkey on education, health, security and justice. We didn't have enough of this; we added transportation, energy, industry, agriculture, sports, social benefits, and many other titles, and we brought our country into centuries of work and services over 20 years. In education, we raised the annual budget for this area -- including higher education -- from $10.3 billion -- to over $304 billion in June. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) As we increased our number of classes from 343,000 to 612,000, we appointed 750 thousand new teachers, not retired ones. During the time of our governments, we distributed 3.5 billion free textbooks to our first and secondary school students. Of course, recently the help textbooks were also distributed to our young for free. At one point, we re-educated the professional education that was deliberately destroyed by the mindset of the coup, restored its reputation and function, gained access to education and equal opportunity. Through our Maarif Foundation, we conduct education activities in 49 countries with 407 schools, 1 institute of higher education, 21 educational centres and 42 nationalities. We've raised our number of universities, 76 in higher education to 208, and our number of academic staff, 70 thousand, to 184,000. In health, we raised our hospital bed count from 164,000 to 263,000. In the last five years, we've launched 20 city hospitals with 29,000 beds. (AK PARTY) We will move our country to a unique place in health with city hospitals, whose construction and project will increase to 35,000, which will increase to 47K in bed capacity. In youth and sports, we've raised our youth center from 9 to 417, our number of sports facilities from 1,575, to 4,138, and our capacity for higher learning dorm beds from 182,000 to 850,000. (AK PARTY) At this moment, our capacity at Credit and Homes Agency is very, very available, and we don't have the slightest problem answering applications. Higher education scholarships and loans -- very important, very important -- for undergraduate students -- were 45 lira when we arrived -- from 45 lira to $850, from $90 to $1.700 for grad students, from $1.35 to $2.50 for PhD students. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In family and social services, in the last 20 years, we've transferred a total of $540 billion to our needy citizens. Today, the number of disabled officers we took over from 5,777. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We provide home care, home support, and day care for elderly citizens over 65 years of age. We've made historical reforms to protect our women from politics to the economy, to the level they deserve in every aspect of life, to protect them from any threat, especially violence. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're aware of deliberate attacks on our nation's building block, our family institution, against the law. We are determined to maintain our family structure in all its material and spiritual dimensions against these sneaky activities. (EA/DG) We will support the steps we took to strengthen the family futrate with new elements in the coming period. At work and social security, the net minimum wage, which was 184 liras in 2002, reached $5,500 today. Our active insurance numbers have risen from 12 million to 25.3 million, while the total employment has reached the 31 million limit. In justice, when we came to power, the judge, who was 9.349, raised our number to 22.756 as of this year. We have strengthened our organization by increasing the number of courts by 91 per cent in the judiciary and 42 per cent in the administrative judiciary. In the last 20 years, we've built a total of 277 justice-service buildings. We've strengthened our local administration system in many areas, with regulations made in internal affairs, local government legislation. Our Police General Directorate, our General Command and Coast Guard Command work day and night for the safety of our country and our nation, with a total of 538,000 personnel. We've strengthened our chiefs, the smallest administrative unit in our country. We've supported our mayors in every area from paying social security benefits to their salaries. We've set up 30 resuscitation centers capable of 18,000 people to combat an irregular migration, a global problem. In Syria, about 526 thousand volunteers have returned to the safe zones we have established today from the beginning of our cross-border operations. In national defense, we destroy the corridor of terror that is being created at our southern border with the Firat Shield, the olive branch, the Paw, the Peace Fountain, Operation Spring Shield and Operation Claw-lock. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In transport, we've increased our divided distance from 6,100 kilometers to 3,633 kilometers -- no doubt -- to 28,722 kilometers as of now -- from 1,714 kilometers -- to the distance of the highway that we've taken over. From the number of tunnels in the land road, from 83, to 469, our road length from 50 kilometers to 663 kilometers, our bridge and viaduct length reached 730 kilometers from 311 km. In the transportation that we've acquired in our country over the last 20 years -- I don't count all of it, I just wanted to count the special ones -- among the bridges are Osmangazi, Yavuz Sultan Selim, Adıyaman Nissibi, Elazığ netın, Tohma, Hasankeyf-2, 1915 Çanakkale Bridge. Among the tunnels were Bolu Mountain Tunnel -- you know, let's make it a site of the Patates. There were Eurasia, Ilgaz, Ilmaray, İzmir Konak, Eğütek, Cankurtaran, Soapcubeli, Ovit, Kırcahamam-Cerkaş, Salarha, Pirinkayas. The highways include Istanbul-Izmir, northern Marmara, Menemen-Alika-Tandarlı, Ankara-Nığde, Künalı-Tekirdağ-Kanakkale-Kıştepe. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Many of the works that we can't finish by counting here serve our nation all over our country. In total, we built a 1,460km-long fast train route, a new railway network of 2,102km long, an electric and signaled railway line 8.547km long. We've completely renovated our existing railways, which are about 1,590 kilometers in length. In the airlines, we increased the number of airports that we took over from 26 to 57. When my citizen arrived at the airport or airport, not for hours, but for half an hour, he had the chance to reach his home in our country's 81 provinces. In the sea, our boating capacity rose from 37 to 84, from 8,500 to 18,667. In information and communication technologies, the number of broadband subscribers, only 3,000 in 2002, reached 88.8 million today, while the number of electronic government users reached 60.6 million in 2002. In environmental, urbanism and climate change, we have produced a total of 1,70,000 homes that have spread through the hands of TOKI to the entire city of 81. So I'm not saying what we're going to do, but now that we've explained what we're going to do, we've completed the transformation of 3 million houses. Thus, in our country, an earthquake country, we have restored 12 million citizens to new and secure dwellings, with 350,000 already in transition. In the past few weeks, we have shared with my people the news of our 50,000 business campaigns, 500,000 social homes, 250,000 housing sites. The first stage of this campaign is the construction of 250,000 social homes, 100,000 housing plots, and 10,000 businesses. We're also in preparation for housing production -- I want to stress it specifically -- to raise it to $1 million. In this regard, our Minister of Environment, Urbanism is doing all of the Parcel work and so on across the country, and according to this, we will provide this opportunity throughout our country. As part of our goal of bringing 81 million square metres of nation garden to our city, we are making 455 national gardens across Turkey today. We have completed 137 of these, and we will have completed them all in 2023. In agriculture and forest, in the last 20 years, we've given our farmers a total of 183 billion dollars in agricultural support; in current figures, it's worth $465 billion. As of last year, we raised our agricultural GDP from $37 billion to 407 billion. We've raised our dams from 276 to 930, our number of hydropower plants from 97 to 730, our drinking water plant from 84 to 370, our number of irrigation facilities from 1,764 to 3,325. In macroeconomics, we took our national income from $238 billion when we were in office and brought it to the limit of $1 trillion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2021, Turkey became the world's 11th largest economy and Europe's fourth largest economy, according to its buying power parite. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Turkish economy averaged 5.5 per cent year-on-year growth in 2002-2021. Our growth rate last year was 11 percent and 7.5% in the first half of this year. Turkey heads the fastest growing countries in G20 in an environment in which the Covid-19 epidemic has rocked the world's economies. We've raised our exports of $36 billion a year to over $250 billion a year in trade. Our foreign trade volume reached the limit of $500 billion last year. In industry and technology, we've established 142 new organised industrial areas, 25 industrial areas, 87 techno parks. We created our national space program and started the process of sending a Turkish citizen to the International Space Station in 2023. We open our local electric car's factory in Gemlik, and we start mass production on October 29th. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We bring our National Technology Movement, our young people's energy, and savings to an understanding that will serve our country at the highest level. We've established a strong infrastructure in the defence industry that will respond to global demands, more than meet the needs of our country. We've come from drones to land and sea vehicles, hardware software to the number of countries in the world that can design, produce, export their own defense industry products in any area. When we came to work, we now reached 80 percent of domestic and national production, which is 20 percent. Do you know what this is? In particular, the most important leap at the point of self-sufficientness is the gathering of the greatest power. We've increased our total energy-based power from 31,846 megawatts to 101,518 megawatts. In the Black Sea, we discovered a total of 540 billion cubic metres of natural gas reserves. We've started building our first nuclear power plant since next year, and I'm talking about Akkuyu. Now, our second meeting is about Sinop. Hopefully, if we can get our understanding of Sinop, we'll have our second nuclear power plant in Sinop. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With our investments in domestic and renewable energy production, we're lowering our country's dependency on the outside. Because 10 per cent of Turkey's energy consumption -- plus 10 per cent -- will be met from these nuclear power plants; from Akkuyu, from Sinop (from Sinop), from around here. In culture, we've moved our wealth and space in the World Heritage List from 9 to 19, the number of artifacts brought from abroad from 2,525, to 9.034, from 57 to 149. In tourism, not only do we quickly compensate for the damage caused by the epidemic, we're heading for far greater goals. At the end of this year, we're going to get $40 billion in tourism revenues. We've raised our number of artifacts restored through our General Directorate of Foundations from 46 to 5,781. We strengthen our relationship with our friends through our institutions, such as the Religious Affairs, TİKA, the Dolphin Emre Institute, the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, AFAD, TRT and Anadolu Agency. Our presidential presidential presidency, offices, boards and other agencies also contribute very important to our country in its areas of responsibility. As it turns out, no matter how much we sum up, it's not just the work and services we've given our country. Hopefully, we'll get this artifact and the service bar even higher in the coming period. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers are going through a painful process where humanity is at the center of outbreaks, wars, crises and instability. Our world is also drifting towards a vast vortex that threatens social peace, people's will to live together and democratic gains. Turkey, located at the crossroads of the three continents, is the country most affected by all developments. Turkey does not have the luxury of shutting down, insulating itself from the outside world, observing events in its territory from the bleachers. Our 78 martyrdoms spread throughout 34 different countries of the world also draw the limits of our foreign policy. No one can imprison Turkey's horizon for 780,000 square kilometers. Even if we were to be forgotten for a long time, we are reminded of the truth that has occurred in our territory. As Turkey, in light of these facts, we strive to fulfill our responsibilities to our fellow citizens and brothers. We're implementing a constructive and active policy in solving global and regional problems. We do not seek tension, neither do we yield to oppression, nor to the glory of our nation, no matter who it may come from. We strongly defend Turkey's rights and laws in every field in an honorable, patient, determined and discreet manner. We've become a diplomatic force in the international plan to address problems as an intermediary facilitator, whose proposals have been taken into consideration. With 255 foreign diplomatic missions, we have one of the world's five largest diplomatic networks. I would like to express with great pride that Turkish diplomacy is the most successful period of the last century. Our stance on the Ukrainian crisis is the latest example of our country's peace, stability, human and human life centralized. You know, when this crisis first started, we were under a lot of pressure from some environments. Some foreign forces and their spokesmen have accused us of missing the train, of being alone, of making mistakes, of making mistakes; they have not left us with what they said, but we have determined our policies by taking the interests of our country to the center. In this war between our two neighbors, we used our preferences for peace, dialogue, fair arbitration. We chose to strive to end the war, rather than burn fire, fuel a trial, by looking out for our close relations with both countries. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) With that understanding, we played a facilitating role in the process. We first had Russian and Ukrainian foreign ministers meet in Antalya, hosted negotiating committees in Istanbul, and, together with the United Nations, carried out the Grain Corridor Covenant for the transfer of Ukrainian grain to the world markets. As a result of our country's intense efforts, this agreement has been one of the United Nations' greatest achievements in recent years, shaken by its ineffectiveness in the face of global crises. And think about it, it's in all the records that we've sent over 5 million tons of grain from this corridor to the world. The prisoner exchange between Russia and Ukraine is the most important step forward. He raised Turkish diplomacy to a very different league, and in my talks in New York, all the presidents, the prime ministers all thanked us first for the role we took in this prisoner exchange, and said that it was above all recognition. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We have personally witnessed that our country's steps towards the Russian-Ukraine crisis, the immigration issue, humanitarian aid, the fight against terrorism and peacekeeping have been appreciated by the entire world. The world is greater than the five ▪ we've been talking about for years from the United Nations bench. Our determination now finds makeup, even within the Security Council. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, both permanent members and interim members have all begun to acknowledge that the world is greater than 5 ▪, and even recently, some leaders have come to say that it needs to be reformed. Everyone who lives abroad knows the reality of Turkey, which has become a global power, although those who are unaware of the country where it breathes its air and eats its bread. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Turkevi building, which we opened last year, has claims and confidence, is Turkey's symbol in New York. (AK PARTY) The Turkish house, which rose up as a monument to the United Nations right across from the United Nations, has become one of the places the heart of diplomacy is beating this year. We are very pleased to bring such a work to our nation and our country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, we've seen in these contacts that until yesterday, those who have accused us of something that we haven't had are looking for ways to develop cooperation with our country in many areas, especially in the defence industry. The Shanghai Summit, which was held in Samarkant, Uzbekistan, and joined as a dialogue partner, was an example of our country's expanding foreign policy vision with bilateral and multilateral contacts. From Russia to China, Kazakhstan to Pakistan, India to Iran, at this summit, where many countries of the region joined, we observed that Turkey, along with the West, was considered an important co-operation partner in the East. On the other hand, we have made our determination to fight terrorism clear in NATO's latest enlargement process. We have noted that the new strategy document for the accepted NATO (NATO) in Madrid defines terrorism as the main threat to the alliance. We also recorded our expectations in the fight against terrorism with the Tri-Mutera, which we signed ahead of the Madrid Summit. We carefully follow whether Sweden and Finland have fulfilled their commitments. Of course, our Veteran Assembly will make the final decision in the name of our nation. (EC PARTY) We will remain primitive and decisive in this matter until promises are made to our country. As a country that has been fighting terrorism for nearly 40 years, has sacrificed tens of thousands of its citizens to terrorism, we have no way of making concessions to anyone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With our actions in Syria, and in northern Iraq, we have made the separatist traitors unable to move. We also work with all of our institutions to ensure the extradition and legal accountability of those who fled abroad. We will continue our fight uncompromisingly until we have completely removed the terror plague from our nation's agenda. Our heart's geography is making efforts to establish peace and stability in the Balkans, to ensure a climate of peace. In this framework, I made an important visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, and Croatia in early September. The roots of peace and stability in the Balkans will continue to be the top of our foreign policy priorities in the coming period. In the Middle East, a climate of normalisation began to take place in our nearby environment. Our relations with the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, and Israel develop on the basis of mutual interest, a similar process with Egypt. I'd like to rephrase the importance of the Palestinian cause and that we're always there for our Palestinian brothers. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In South Caucasus, after the victory of Azerbaijan, a beacon of hope for lasting peace was born in the region. Our support for Can Azerbaijan is precious and still, as he was born with Shusha Beyannam. We're doing our part to ensure that the new situation that has arisen will lead to the establishment of permanent peace and peace in the region. Through our appointed special representatives, we have demonstrated the will to take our relations with Armenia to a new level. Armenia must make good use of its peace offering. Perhaps there will also be a meeting at the Prague Summit - a request for a meeting with Pashinyan. Cyprus has two separate states and peoples. Isolations and embargos must be terminated and all promises of international recognition and legitimacy that the Turkish Cypriots deserve. (AK PARTY) We do not accept the US decision to remove the arms embargo for the Greek Cypriot administration. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The incentive of Greece, which armed the non-military islands in the Aegean, is incompatible with reason, intelligence, and alliance. It's not for anyone's benefit to pursue the politics of provocation and tension in the region. We know very well who has unleashed Greece on us a hundred years later, and we say that we are aware of the game that is being played in this way. (EC PARTY) We advise the Greek administration to avoid provocations that will lead to disaster on itself and on its people. Again, we care deeply about our Asian Initiative. In Africa and Latin America, we strengthen our dialogue and dialogue with bilateral and multilateral platforms, particularly economic and trade. In December, we held the third one in Istanbul. With the Turkish-African Summit, we once again embraced all of our African friends. Thus, we made it clear that Turkey's interest in the African continent was long-term and permanent. We also strive to improve our co-operation with the Turkish world in all areas. We will continue our final summit meeting to ensure that the Union of the Turkish States, which we held at the Isle of Democracy and Freedoms, gets its rightful place on a global scale. (APPLAUSE) In particular, I would like to stress the following: Some circles in foreign policy try to make our openings look like a shift of the axis, although Turkey is not trying to shift the axis, but it manages to conduct its own axis at the same time in terms of very different diplomatic relations in the world, in terms of our national interests. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY]] Dear lawmakers, in 2023, we will come out with a new word in front of our nation, referring to the 100th year of the founding of our republic, which we will all celebrate together next year. This is the promise to build the century of Turkey on the works and services we have provided for our country so far. We are determined to turn the second century of our Republic into the age-old dream of our nation. Hopefully, we'll do it together, with him living and running. I believe the first choice of the century of Turkey will result in the best result in this vision of our country, this longing for our nation. With these feelings, I wish once again the best of our new year of life, and I salute all of you with love. Peace be with you.
tbmm-2022-10-01sit01spe0003par0131	[[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, the issues on our agenda are complete. On Tuesday (October 4th 2022), it is 15 p.m. to discuss audit issues and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with law proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
