tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Members of parliament, according to our agenda, in accordance with the decision of the General Assembly on April 13, 2022 in the 79th (79) Union, we begin our talks to mark the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to mark the meaning and significance of the day. Dear MPs, dear guests, dear nation, we are gathered together to celebrate our national value of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, and to understand the 102nd anniversary of the foundation of our great Assembly. Blessed be the National Sovereignty and Children's Day and the 102nd anniversary of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to our nation, to its relatives and relatives, and to all our friends with love for Turkey in their hearts. Under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I remember our martyrs and veterans who sacrificed their lives for this country, with respect, gratitude, and gratitude, and gratitude, as Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the first President of our Veterans Congress, who made the national will the empirical and dominant, the most legitimate way to achieve the world's most legitimate struggle and entrust this country to us. Dear lawmakers, history should be the source of the will to build tomorrow, not the refuge of those who cannot afford today's problems. With action from here, the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and its National War period are a form of meditation that remains up-to-date for each and every member of our beloved nation. We are obliged to know that there was a supreme and absolute freedom camp built to raise and justify full independence in a country that had been gathered a hundred and two years ago, which had become a wreck of the Veteran Assembly, surrounded by occupation and property. Again, we must know that the spirit of Kuvasimilli is at the heart of this great assembly's zeal for the victory of the national struggle. When it is called the spirit of Kuvasimimli, you should not understand a historical reality that is frozen in a certain period of time, trapped in formal representations. It is the epiphany of the faith, the will, that allows the Kuvaimlim to be verified by a move from the history and essence of our beloved nation in the attempt to condemn himself to absence, captivity, shame, and foreign talks. Thus, this spirit is the name of faith and will that will endure as our nation endures, not at a certain time in history. Thankfully, this spirit is alive today, and is the only guidance to overcome hardship. For every member of our beloved nation, the sign of honor of the national struggle, which was set up in epic proportions of a century ago, is an act of pride. And this great assembly under its roof has a mana and a means beyond its time to be the headquarters of that glorious battle. The Grand Assembly, the headquarters of the National War, has two important heritages today. The first is the determination and determination to fight in the name of full independence, which we speak of, without negotiation, without fear, and with courage worthy of the honor of our nation. Another important legacy left by the First Assembly to the next generation is that every matter of the land can be resolved with the nation and by the will of the nation. The application of his will in a struggle during the most difficult and painful times of his history is very important in showing the political grace that our nation has achieved. The execution of the National War by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a result of the nation's sensitivity to governance, even in the country's most vital issues. In the past hundred and two years, there have been times when this sensitivity has been interrupted, when the national will has been subdued, but our democracy has matured, fighting coups and coups has succeeded. Without a doubt, this is the result of our nation's firm and persistent conduct. Honourable lawmakers, my dear nation, the truth expressed by many world leaders today is a new order in the world that is no longer able to hide. As a matter of fact, the conflicts we're witnessing these days, the challenges and the tremors we feel as a country, are the pains of the formation of this new world order. No matter where we turn our heads, we coincide with a conflict, a struggle, a race for power. In view of this landscape, where the ranks have been identified, where the conflicts have evolved into a bloody state, where Turkey has been better understood and its value has become the subject of curious questions as to whose side it stands. The answer is very clear: In the face of all these conflicts and struggles of power, Turkey is undoubtedly on the side of international law and is the sole rights and interests of our beloved nation in determining its policies. We are determined not to take on the welfare of our nation, but to engage in any engagements contrary to the welfare of our country and its future. But no matter how the events are watched, no matter what kind of balances are set up, Turkey will not deviate from its claims at regional and global levels, it will not hesitate to take initiative for the welfare of its region and all humanity. The Republic of Turkey, whose inspiration from the national struggle and power of our beloved nation, is now determined to be an actor who is no longer a problem at the diplomacy tables established by hegemon forces, but is wanted to contribute to the solution. Anyone who tries to ignore or test that determination is doomed to see his account broken. Turkey, which rose from its ashes with its determination and determination, is stronger, more enthusiastic, and more alive today, a century ago and at a time that was presumed to have been completely exhausted. The nature of the world's new world order, which will evolve, will, of course, be debated for a long time, but no doubt, Turkey will also have a say and claim in the new world order. There are two reasons why we are so sure: First of all, the world is no longer manageable to this crooked and unfair arrangement, and secondly, Turkey shines in the horizon of humanity as a big and living move. I'd like to say that Turkey is determined to make its claim at regional and global levels more concrete every day. Turkey's fight against terrorism continues to be successful, with decisive results, as required by this determination. At this point, it must be noted that Turkey has been forced to shut down for many years by military coups and terrorism. These devastating attacks, which we have witnessed in the last July 15 coup attempt, have been annulled by the determination and leadership of our President, our nation's insight, integrity and courage, and terror has been brought to an end by the zeal and superhuman struggle of all concerned units of the state. I hereby offer my condolences to all our martyrs, to their families, and to our beloved nation, including their sons, who have risen to testify in Operation Claw-lock, which is carried out against the terror zones in northern Iraq. A blessed relic, which holds the title in its heart as an eternal consciousness, bows before the glorious memory of all our martyrs. Honourable MPs, my dear nation, a situation that makes this day meaningful to our nation is the celebration of April 23rd as the Day of Childhood since 1927. This approach should be seen as one of the sides that make Turkey different and superior to other states. The idea that the establishment of the Turkish Grand National Assembly should be celebrated with the children is crucial. The strength of a nation with a glorious past to walk into a powerful future takes all its excitement and enthusiasm from the hearts of children. Therefore, we must train our children and our young ones to be men of national and spiritual values, to stand on their own feet, to be in love with liberty and liberty, to have the equipment and qualities of the age. In this regard, our educational institutions, all our ministries, especially the Ministry of National Education, and our NGOs, and most importantly, our families, have great responsibilities and duties. With these feelings, we try to strengthen the awareness of our national sovereignty-based values, which have been under the roof of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, which have been under parliament for nearly a week, with various events from science to art and sports, with our children from all over our country, with the most important turning of our history. In this place, representing the will of the nation, the rise of children's voices and chirping for a week is the clearest expression of the link between today and the future. In this part of my speech, I'd like to continue by addressing our children and our young people. Dear children, dear young men, you are a member of a nation whose past is full of brilliant achievements and respect for human values. The history of the people you are devoted to is a period of human greed that counts as a book of virtues. The more you learn about our history, the more you find yourself capable of doing greater things. Not by looking down on other nations and societies, but by carrying the human virtues and zeal that will benefit all mankind, you can grow and strengthen our state. It is in your hands to move the land, the state, and the values of civilization that our ancestors have earned with harsh sacrifices and costs. My fellow MPs, my dear nation, on April 23, 2022, it is a day of pride, joy, and gratitude for those who have worked for the Veteran Parliament that we celebrate the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On this occasion, I remember all of our deputies and statesmen who served under the Great National Assembly of Turkey from the day it opened, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and all their sons who were veterans and finally resisted the coup on July 15th, with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. I also wish that the upcoming Day of Ramadan would bring blessings and peace to our beloved nation, the Islamic world, and all mankind. For many centuries again on the road to great Turkey in glory, unity and unity! Happy holidays. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, I will make a five-minute commitment to the leaders of the political parties represented in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for ten minutes, and to the heads of political parties that do not have a group in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I read the order: Mr. Ismet Yılmaz, Chairman of the Justice and Development Party Parliament Group, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, Chairman of the Republican People's Party and Chairman of Parliament, Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroglu, Chairman of Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chair and Assembly Group of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Co-Chair, İstanbul MP Mr. Pervin Buldan, Deputy Chair of the Group, Mr. Merit Danış Beştaş, Parliamentary Party's President and Parliament Speaker of Parliament, Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. President Erkan Akçay, Chair of the Party of the Party of Turkey, President of Parliament and President of the Party of Parliament, Mr. President of Parliament and President of Parliament, Mr. President of Parliament and President of the Party of Parliament. The first statement is from Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, chairman of the Justice and Development Party's Parliamentary Group, Sivas MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0002par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. Happy Kingdom and Children's Day. On this occasion, the first President of our House, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave this day to our children as a holiday, and I respectfully remember all the MPs who ruled our national struggle. And I want to thank all of our MPs who have been acting under this roof for a hundred and two years since their opening. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been declared a holiday on April 23rd 1924, and have been celebrated as Children's Day since 1929. Turkey is the only country in the world that gives its children a holiday and shares its holiday with the world. It is the feast of the children of our heroic martyrs who were orphaned when the republic was established; the feast of the children of my beloved nation who made the greatest sacrifice in the most difficult period; the feast of our children, the feast of the children of the Sherif who covered their sweaters with bullets, saying not to get it wet, instead of their son; the feast of our own little, heart as great as our country. The purest form of man, I wish Turkey and all the children of the world a peaceful and hopeful future. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] This is what Sezai Karakoc said: "Take a man, untie him, let him be a child. Let the festivals of our children who will change the world, bring him back to life. " [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs opened the Grand National Assembly of Turkey a hundred and two years ago. On behalf of the Branch Committee, Gazi Mustafa Kemal's order to all military and property authorities in Anatolia on 21 April 1920, two days before the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, was stated in Turkish Turkish Turkish: On the 23rd Friday of April, after Friday's prayer, the Grand National Assembly of Ankara will be opened with God's generous grace. (AS/TK) For the benefit of the day's blessing, all MPs and Hajji Bayram's Veli Cami-i Sharif will be blessed and blessed with Friday's prayers. The importance of national work and the sanctity of every member of the nation of the Grand National Assembly will be brought down and the rest of my line will be completed in front of parliament after Friday's prayer. The announcement will be sent to the remotest villages, the smallest military continents, and all of the country's institutions and institutions. We call upon the Lord of the Worlds for help. Mr. President, in the early 20th century, the Ottoman army of the Ottoman State on the front of the first World War was disbanded by the Mondros Foundation, and the territory of Anatolia was occupied. At a time when hope was dwindling, the horizon was shrinking, our nation's historical reflexes were activated, and a great liberation movement was launched in Anatolia under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Pasha. The basis of this movement is the values of our nation; the political project, the road map, the Mystical. In those difficult circumstances, the First Assembly, as the sole representative of the nation's will, led the process to great victory step by step in common mind and solidarity. The key to the success of the First Assembly is the ability of a powerful democratic representation. The First Assembly was made up of members representing all the colors of society. The republic, founded after the Liberation War, also received its strength, legitimacy, and excitement from the nation's will, which is the seat of the First Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the founding values of the organization are alive today as well. On the night of July 15th, we lived the spirit of resistance and struggle in this House. We've seen the excitement of the establishment, the reading of the presidential decision that opened Ayasofia at the meeting with our MPs standing and clapping in tears. (AK PARTY) We saw the full independent Turkish spirit of Kuvaimilliye in the organisation in the adoption of Turkish Armed Forces elements to observe the Karabag peace process. We've seen the principle of the superiority of national will in the organization to resolve problems after each coup and intervention by taking them to the nation's arbitration. No soul can frustrate its value until the sky falls above it, and the earth is rent asunder, and none can frustrate it by its will. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Mr. President, members of parliament, Turkey has established the Grand National Assembly state, founded the republic, and in the process, has crowned the republic with democracy. This process has not been easy; we have faced enormous obstacles in the struggle to dominate national will, and our democracy has exceeded many obstacles to its present level. The 1960 coup, the 1 971 coup, the 1980 coup, the 1997 coup, the 2007 signing, the 2016 coup, the coup attempt on the nation's will, the coup d'états, made Turkey pay a great price; our nation did not survive the coalition crisis and chaos spiral for many years, but the coup constitutions strengthened its institutions, the national will was ignored. In order not to allow the intervention of the custody centers again, our nation has taken the authority to form a government, which is already part of its sovereignty, as it is in determining the House, into its own commitment. This is an important milestone in our country's history of democracy. Mr. President, as the political staff that has ruled this country for 20 years, under the leadership of our President, we have worked very hard to bring our country above the level of murky civilizations that our nation has set for us, to build the great and powerful Turkey, one by one, to make our nation's dreams come true. We see that Turkey today is stronger than yesterday, getting closer and closer to its goal to rise above the level of modern civilization. In the statement of the late Professor Dr. Kemal Karpat, Turkey is living in the most powerful period in the history of the Turkish state for the past two centuries. Because he is strong, Karagör, occupied in 1993, is free today. Because he is strong, the sad, closed-down Maraş in Cyprus has been open today since 1974. Since he was strong, the corridor of terror was destroyed by Operations of the Firat Shield, Olive branch, Peace Fountain. Because he is strong, in the Mediterranean, in Libya, Turkey's presence is trusting the friend, it worries the enemy. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have crossed the most difficult times in unity and unity, we have solved the most difficult problems together; our strength is our unity. That was the case with the Imperial War, and so was it today. There were different sounds during the invasion war, it could be today, it could be today. During the War, a nation with 500 million lira debts, a broken country, unproductive land, and 10-15 million incomes could not live without foreign aid. There were mandaers, members of the British League of Mobilists, members of the Turkish Wilsonians. But they will not be united with manda as they were. There were those who said, "The nation's sovereignty will also save the nation's determination and decision." This is our country, this is our country, and this is our responsibility. Our primary mission is to increase faith in Turkey's future without ignoring the real picture. We also have the strength to resolve these problems in difficult times, and we have the determination to resolve them. We've been through the hardest times, and we'll all get through it together. The pessimists will say what wasn't done, and we'll say what was done. After all, the arbitrator is the people, and the eyes of the people are the scales. History has always shown that those who stand on the right side of history are those who walk with their nation. Mr. President, good lawmakers, our policy is about peace, peace, brotherhood. Our policy is great Turkish politics. Our goal is the democratic great and powerful Turkey, based on the rule of rule of law. And from now on, we will all together build the great Turkey again. With these feelings and thoughts, I once again celebrate your April 23rd National Sovereignty and Children's Day. In every hundred and two years of eternity, we have faith that our beloved nation will achieve much greater success and celebrate this holiday with much greater glory and glory. We kiss our children's eyes, believe them and trust them in the bright future of this country. We wish all the children of the world peace and quiet happiness. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We are thankfully grateful for the memory of the first coven. We ask God's mercy to all our martyrs, and we salute our veterans. May my beloved people always be high and clear and clear. May Allah open the way of Turkey and its good fortune. On this occasion, I salute the Grand Assembly, and celebrate the Day of Ramadan, which we will celebrate with our beloved nation in the coming season.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0003par0049	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. He is now the leader of the Republican People's Party and the chairman of Parliament Group, İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0004par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, on behalf of my esteemed citizens, my dear children, my dear young people watching us at the beginning of their televisions, I sincerely congratulate you on the 102th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and your National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23rd. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President and valued members, I'd like to take you on a historic journey on the 102 ± anniversary of the opening of the House. Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk will guide us on this journey. It's March 1, 1922. Ataturk is giving the keynote speech of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Third Year of Legislature. The talk is this: the combination of the High Assembly in one year is 167. A total of 359 sessions were held in these combinations, with 271 The Supreme Assembly has taken over 177 drafts and proposals from the Year of First Legislature this past year. In the year of the Second Legislature, 355 drafts and proposals came in, and 10 other laws were adopted after they came in as a motion. So from the 542 drafts and proposals of the law over the course of this year, 94 have been made law, 65 have been rejected. Again, it has been passed by the Laws of the Council of Ministers. 15 have been taken back by the Council of Ministers or its owners. About 18 of them were combined with relevant laws. It was adopted in the form of a 6-level decision, which is 228 total, and 106 of the bills have been completed by commissions and sent to the General Assembly. The remaining 208 proposals and proposals are in the commissions, which will be completed this year. Dear lawmakers, please note that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has not unconditionally accepted legislation, proposals from the Council of Ministers or from the parliamentary group while doing so. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has also fought at the front with the power taken from its principle that sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally, and has been able to oppose the demands of the Council of Ministers. The Parliament, which gave the title of Ataturk (Gazi) to Ataturk, is referred to as the "Gazi Parliament" because it is the main headquarters of the National Liberation War. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, however, is the Veteran Assembly because some of its members fought on the frontline. The number of non-military lawmakers with the red-green stripe is about 50, because of their struggle at the front. Dear President, a hundred years ago, we are faced with a picture of this great Assembly, the conditions and principles and achievements of our Veteran Assembly, where today, I regret to say, lawmakers are restricted, unable to complete their duties of control and law enforcement, restricted, or even prevented. It stands before us as a problem for law proposals brought by the executive body or lawmakers to be prepared from a single centre, to have a large portion of the draft and proposals prepared without question, regardless of all warnings and suggestions, to be accepted without even touching the virgen, without moral, conscience and legal grounds. The fact that MPs' written and verbal motions are not answered and that most of the answers lack content is on the agenda of Parliament as a separate issue. However, centuries ago, this Parliament, as I have just quoted from Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, was a parliament where all ideas were freely discussed and worked at a maximum level to form a common opinion. Moreover, he was a Parliament that fought against the occupational forces while the Clave freely debated and made the law. Mr. President, this time next year, we will celebrate the 103rd anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On October 29, 2023, we will take the first step into the republic's 2nd century. I believe our celebrations next year will take place within the atmosphere of a process that will crown our republic with democracy. [[CHP's "Bravo" lines, applause, applause; applause from the good party lines]] We will eliminate one man's regime as an example to the world, within the borders of democracy and through the polls. (Applause from CHP rows) We'll be able to begin the work of a parliamentary system that we've been inspired to take from a century ago and reject all custody, no one will doubt it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, in the reinforced parliamentary system, and in the process of building this system, we will all work together, and we will rule this country together. Once we have done that, we will soon have solved most of Turkey's fundamental problems. Let there be no doubt that women who can't drink a glass of milk to their children, no matter what thought, no matter what faith, no doubt that young people who want to live freely, no doubt that they can't give money to their children, no doubt that they can't pay their bills in 2021, no doubt that they can't pay their money, no doubt that there are about 4 million people who have been cut off from their land because they can't pay their bills. Once again, we will solve all of our country's problems together, especially economic problems. We will bring plenty and plenty to this beautiful country. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Dear lawmakers, the end of this oppressive period of rights, law, justice between one person's two lips is coming. The time is near when 128 billion dollars in the Central Bank will be discovered where and who are being pursued. The days are coming when peace academics will return to their seats. The day is coming when the Istanbul Convention will be put back into effect. (H.P.) The days of the cost of life are coming to an end. The days are coming when the Tank Palette Factory will be restored, and Solomon will be taken back to the land of the land. (Cheers, applause from the ranks of the GOOD Party) No matter what opinion, faith and identity everyone will live in peace and peace in this country, no one will be replaced.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0005par0066	Get out of here!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0004par0067	...the days are near when the government will not hesitate to answer, and there will be a legal and moral obligation to answer, and there will be a legal and moral obligation to answer. The days we've been through are about to be left behind.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0005par0068	Get out of here!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0004par0069	So there's no room for despair in our vision of the future. Our struggle is to establish a fair order where no child can go to bed hungry and stay in the dark. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Mr. President, yes, we are on the 102nd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. About a century ago, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends formed our republic as an example for all oppressed nations, and after a century, together, this Parliament will literally crown our republic with democracy. By means of the reinforced parliamentary system, national sovereignty will literally, literally, be a nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The national sovereignty of one person will not be surrendered.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0006par0075	Get over it.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0004par0077	With these feelings, I remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and all his friends and all our martyrs with gratitude and mercy. I sincerely congratulate all our children on the 23 National Sovereignty and Children's Day, which Ataturk has given them, and on the next Day of Ramadan for our citizens. Greetings, greetings.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0007par0080	Thank you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0008par0082	Come out, come out, come out, let's see! Aren't you ashamed of talking to the President General?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0007par0083	Guys, there's nothing to get excited about, we're still talking, so calm down, please. Now, it belongs to Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş, MP of the Group, instead of Mr. Pervin Buldan, co-Chair of Peoples' Democratic Party and Parliamentary Group President. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0009par0087	Mr. President, I salute you with respect, first of all, to the esteemed MPs and our dear people who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Today, on the occasion of the 102nd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I would especially like to welcome back our citizens, who are curious about what will be said at the beginning of their screens, why April 23rd is National Sovereignty and Children's Day, and who will be watching this very carefully on behalf of the People's Democratic Party and my own. Of course, there is no doubt that April 23rd was an important step towards the establishment of public sovereignty and the establishment of the republic. I'm celebrating today first, and I need to take a look at the previous years. During each April 23rd session, we highlight one particular issue in our talks, which is the 1920 Parliament and its insurmountable structure, which exceeds today's parliamentary reality, even if lacks it. If we look at the records, there's a Lazistan mebu, and there's a Kurdistan mebu. It is possible to see the mosaic in the Constitution of 1921, where the principles of justice are partly based on decentralisation and representation. Since the Congress had its own identity and color, the nation's nationalism forms were not yet in control. In short, over the years, the community's will and fated union for life, which should be represented, have been left at the mercy of the rulings, and their dreams of equal citizenship have been completely obliterated, followed by a dissolution of the central-local management balance. This painting stands before us as a massive ruin of the past with all its flammableness. Our dear people, a question has been raised in the face of the century. What changed in a hundred and two years? Yes, surely we and the world have changed a lot. Politics, community sociology and technology have been transformed. Before going too far, uncentered structures such as the blockchain, such as technology, are making the borders meaningless, challenging all the memorizations of the nation's state and capitalism, so to speak, are now on the verge of shaking the financial capital. The Ukrainian occupation, which recently began in such a photograph, and the return of NATO with chess games on the Atlantic-Pacific line, which is parallel to this occupation, shows us what will happen to the economic-political imaginations of the device, which we call "capitalist modernity." Turkey, of course, is not limited by these extremely fluid global changes; it will either abandon some political, social and social understandings or continue with endless axis shifts as it enters a new century in 2023, or as a country that has lost its story as a country that has been defeated by the spirit of time and lost its story. It is possible to say that during a century, the republic had an antidemocratic character. Yes, there's a republic, but it's incomplete, but it's not democratic; there's a symbolic democracy; there's problems; there's problems, but the rulers don't want to see and solve; there's a difference, there's a lot of voice, but they're all considered dangerous. It's possible to say a lot of things, and there's only one door where they all come out, which is denial. Yes, all identities are being crushed under the mind of the state based on denial; all values are being made invisible under denial-based politics; all riches are being reduced under denial-based politics. We see that law and justice are under the guardianship of the judicial system, which is more than ever the conspiracy of power. The judiciary, like a saw, eliminates any subject, especially the civic institution, which is subject to the other identity. We see, we're in a state-of-the-art fire, where conspiracies are made into state philosophy, where global risks and changes can't be read, and the new world order is set up, and centuries ago, we're in a state-retribution fire. It is no coincidence that at this stage, the ruling and junior partner tried to enter the republic's 2nd century with a new concept of denial. It is one of the indicators of the insufferableness towards the people, especially the Alevis and Kurds, reaching Nirvana, arresting democratic politicians, women's enemies, violence in prisons, transparency, torture, and the removal of millions from citizenship. So, in this apocalypse, what we believe in is the idea of a democratic nation. The democratic nation is the name of a society policy developed against all these social, political, ecological and economic crises. Their beliefs are based on the unity of the peoples, the gender of society, freedom and solidarity; it is the national form of a democratic republic that is multilingual, multi-identified, multi-religious, multicultural, and non-otherative. Dear MPs, Mr. President, we, the People's Democratic Party, believe that everything starts with politics, and the democracy is the moral face of politics. We want a true democracy, not an abstract democracy with no politics in it, but a solution to social problems because the flag of today's world is democracy; young people and women are the carriers of this flag. In the presence of those present for this special day, I want to make it clear that today's definition of democracy is the abuse of the state. The ruling bloc doesn't like democracy, we see that, and the political opposition is afraid of democracy. Right here, we call it the third way: democracy is democracy if it guarantees human freedom. In the same way, justice is our greatest goal. Every policy without justice is a violation of life politics. The secular, civil, liberal, and religious freedom is the beginning and spirit of a democratic exit and a constitution that includes different identities, languages and cultures. We, the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), don't want a republic that ignores identities, locks us in strict definitions, polarizes our social problems, promises to survive through crisis and chaos, declares nature an enemy; we don't want a republic that people answer to the governments, not the people; we don't want a republic that solves the most fundamental and vital Kurdish problem. What we need is a democratic republic, because in this country Kurds, Turks, Alevis, Sunnis, Armenians, Serbians, Arabs, Circessians, Lazlar, Roma, Pomaks; women, young people, workers, and most of all children do not feel secure about their future, they cannot look forward to their future with hope. Mr. President, we can't speak of a holiday the children can celebrate on April 23rd. Children who are thrown into prisons, who are subjected to violence and sexual abuse, who work in the streets, fields, who are not educated in the native language, are the bleeding wound of this country. According to TÜİK data, there are 720,000 children working in economic activity in Turkey. As a matter of fact, the number of child workers is more than 2 million, considering children who are working off the books, according to the IMI Parliament. I'd like to give you a specific example: In 2020, the İzmir Bar appointed 1,078 lawyers for child abuse, which went up to 1,470.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0010par0097	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0009par0098	What is it? So the kids are at risk, so the kids are at risk in every field. It is especially important to stress that parliament has not created an environment that guarantees all rights of education in the right to live, children's right to education in the native language, the greatest shame of democracy. It's a historical responsibility to all of us to the children to step forward in the matter of politics. I'm calling from here, open call: Come, let's set up a child rights permanent commission in the House, and let's start the legal process for the establishment of the child rights ministry as a second step. There is no child's rights policy for children, which is one third of the population. We want a country where children are not abused, poverty is not fated, and in healthy conditions they can benefit from education and housing.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0010par0101	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0009par0102	A hundred years ago, today, it was imagined to be a holiday for children, and it is painful to discuss why, after a hundred and two years, it still can't be a holiday. We're making a statement about a holiday assembly being turned into an ordinary building that's been disabled today, and that's the summation of the country. We call this system "no" to a world that spends millions of dollars every minute on weapons and kills hundreds of children with hunger or curable diseases every minute. We say no to this cruel time when we can't reach a child's food. To those who pride themselves on the escalators that lead nowhere, the library without books, the daycare centers without children, the uneducated universities, the bridges without rivers.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0010par0105	Let's finish, please; it's the third minute, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0009par0106	Yes, thank you. We're standing in front of people who see everyone who isn't themselves as enemies, who create a regime from a shoebox. We say no to those who put isolation ahead of life. It is said that the only sin without forgiveness is against hope. We say no to this sinful system that plays in the hope of children in this country. Fanon, the thinker of the oppressed peoples, says before dying of leukemia and young age: "What matters is whether we do our best for the ideas we believe in. If we are not servants of a purpose in the first place, if we are not lovers of the people's justice and freedom, we are nothing on earth. It is our efforts that determine life, our sweats that we shed; we are all we do. Yes, we have resisted with this consciousness for centuries, and we call it the right to stand up, as Fine Memed has said from Çukurova. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0011par0110	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0012par0111	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0011par0112	Mr. Ozkoch, let's finish the conversation. Now let the Group Vice Presidents speak on behalf of the groups. In turn, it belongs to Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP Manisa of the Group, instead of Osmaniye MP Bahçeli, chairman of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0013par0116	Mr. President, we are gathered in honor of the 102nd anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On behalf of the National Movement Party, I salute our people and your honorable delegation. Congressmans, in the last two thousand years, we've established several major states; we've ruled in three continents, seven climates. We have built governments and civilizations that embrace all mankind; we have lived in a time of happiness, glory, and strength; we have opened an age and closed an era; but in the last two centuries, we have faced various disasters, loss of home, and threats. The pages of Turkish history were translated from the 19th century to the 20th century and tested by fire by exposure to occupations, massacres and painful migrations. A hundred and four years ago, our country was occupied by Britain, France, Italy and Greece; our armies were disbanded, our weapons were taken from us. Imperialist states shared our homeland like hyenas. During the long years of war, our population melted, our nation became poor and weary, and our country was devastated, and our economy collapsed. The Turkish nation wanted to drown in its own homeland. The rescue activities carried out in this dire system of things have been undermined from the inside. With the advice of the invaders, the local collaborators carried out the fifth arm work against Kuvaimilliya, causing riots. Some miserable politicians who collaborated with the invaders hoped that some Babiali bureaucrats would be able to take power by begging for protection from the muslim, just as those who are looking for help and support from foreign states today did with foreign ambassadors. Under these harsh conditions, the first bullets fired against the invaders by Hatay were the flares of the Liberation War (Izmir), Hasan Tahsin in İzmir, Colonel Ali Çetinkaya in Ayvalıqak, Commander Ali Çetinkaya in Maraş. In the same direction, Ataturk took the first step in Samsun to spread the struggle for independence to the homeland. Amasya was declared that the integrity of the country and the independence of the nation were at stake, and the independence of the nation would again save the nation's determination and determination. In Erzurum Congress, the country is one nation within the national borders, it cannot be broken. The decision was announced to the world. In Balıkesir, Nazilli, Alaşehir, the confederates were set up, and they were made into regular armies of sovereignty for Kuvaimilli. In the Sivas Congress, Manda and Custody were rejected. The decision of national will to be judged in all the land was declared with the motto of will or death. The British forces occupied Istanbul on March 16, 1920, referring to the integrity of the country, disbanding the Parliament-i Mebusan, reaching out to the nation's will. These harsh conditions made it necessary for an assembly of parliaments with extraordinary powers to meet in Ankara. Turkey's Grand National Assembly opened a hundred and two years ago with the prayers and will of heroes from all over the country. Those heroes who flourished in the land of chaos, the fresh shoots of a day of hope, the triumphs that dazzled hopes. Those heroes have proved to the world what a nation can accomplish in the humble building of Ulus, in the wooden rows of schools, under the oil lamps, in the sound of cannons from Poland, in the sound of independence. While the invaders shared the Anatolian province, those heroes ruled over national sovereignty and tore up their surrender papers. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] On April 23rd, our nation established its will to live independently, united by ethnicity, language, religion, religion, and locality. This great Parliament is the Veteran Assembly, which rules our War of Istliklal. This Parliament is a document of the Turkish nation's awareness of self-management. The actions of our country's development and development are shaped under this roof. Democracy is developed at this time, spread throughout the country. Our Veteran Assembly overcame the absences, conquered the difficulties, destroyed the occupation and captivity, and crowned its victory with the republic on 29 October 1923. April 23rd, like the cherry blossoms of spring, is the first and only holiday given to our children and to all the children of the world who are our nation's future. Reverend lawmakers, in the last 60 years, this lofty roof, exposed to custody and coup attempts, was bombed by traitors on the night of July 15, 2016. The low coup attempt was to drown the national will, to tear up the country, to turn the country over to the imperialists. We gathered together that night under this roof to hold on to the will of the people, our coven. Our beloved nation, just as it was a hundred and two years ago, has given the invaders and their collaborators the answer they need, and our Assembly has regained its title. It is a national duty to always be alert to the heedless and the collaborators who say, "No matter how the power changes to those who beg for protection from foreign countries and to the separatists." [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Respected MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where we celebrate its 102th birthday, today has a new vision based on the philosophy of its establishment. Despite all the difficult times that we've been through, Turkey has rooted and institutionalized multi-party democratic life, and the national will has been dominated. With the Constitutional referendum on April 16, 2017, the presidential government system was adopted with the highest appreciation of our nation. In this new system, national will has been strongly investigated by more than 50 per cent of representation in the execution. Our Veteran Assembly has achieved a very high representation of 99%. Our parliament has a plurality with 14 parties, 5 groups and 7 independent lawmakers, justice in representation, and a compromise structure as of the distribution of chairs. Our coven has achieved a strong, functional and more democratic structure with a separation of forces. The seal has been struck, the focus of custody, the impacts and the instability of government crises have been lifted to the dusty shelves of history. This system has opened the way for Turkey's breakthroughs in domestic and foreign policy. Turkey has become a garant of global and regional stability, not doomed to problems with its password. Turkey has been making up for lost years for nearly six years. The desire to return to the old system is political regression. (MHP and AK PARTY) We don't have time to waste on polemics, infertile strife. It's no use to say you, me, the other one, the other one. On basic national matters, we must stick together against threats and dangers against Turkey and walk shoulder to shoulder to major goals. On this occasion, I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd, with mercy and gratitude and gratitude for our saints, martyrs, veterans, and heroes of the national struggle, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the great leader of our future struggle. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0014par0130	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Now, it belongs to Mr. İsmail Tastüoğlu, the chairman of the PTA Parliamentary Group, Mr. Bursa. Here you go, Mr. Tastyoglu.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0015par0134	Dear President, honorable MPs, dear nation, on behalf of the Good Party, I salute you all. About a century ago, those who decided to fight the sovereignty of this country didn't start by building an army, they started by opening a Parliament. A hundred years ago, those who fought this struggle based the struggle for freedom on national sovereignty, on the line of defense of law, and accepted legitimacy and moral superiority as a prerequisite for this struggle. These heroes of our Empire's army, the Istiklal War, and also the high visionary squads of our republic, have been able to demonstrate their principled stances even under those circumstances. The 19th and 20th century... because the 19th and 20th century witnessed human dramas that were not based on national sovereignty, but on dozens of unpredictive acts of independence. Most of the independence movement, which is not based on national sovereignty, has been swept away by dictatorial regimes that have scattered countries and are filled with human drama stories. On this occasion, we thank and cherish this high visionary staff and this great nation of ours once again, and we cherish and cherish the past with mercy and gratitude. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear lawmakers, this is our founding values, not giving up on national sovereignty, law, negotiation and consultation, seeing the nation as the sole source of legitimacy, and only the nation; this is how the Turkish state was established, and this is what happened before, and this is what happened. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Honorable lawmakers are not paid attention to national sovereignty as a subject of books, but to guide the course of life. The independence of law and judicial bodies is the independence of the state and the basis of our national sovereignty. Liyat is an essential element of our national sovereignty; Parliament and the judiciary make decisions for the nation. All parliamentary parliaments are just a unconditional nation. They are obliged to live up to the promise. But, as they are these days, the conditions of a union of forces are imposed; the transfer of sovereignty from the nation's Assembly to the palaces and to a narrow staff assigned; the crushing of justice and integrity; the failure of national sovereignty; the failure of life in the course of life by remaining in the text alone. That means freedom of faith, freedom of expression, freedom of enterprise, a society that has been restricted, unable to express itself. Dear lawmakers, 1889 is the time when these lands first met the political party. Since 1889, Turkey has rarely seen the area where politics has narrowed down as much as the last five years; politics has only been so narrowed down. (Applause from the party's ranks) The political atmosphere created by this party's presidency actually describes such a period of society that has been narrowed down and restricted. Look, let's take the era back a little bit, let's take it back to September 12th, let's move it 40 years before, we are the law, we are the state. Is a language close to Solomon Demirel, who is trying to protect the democratic parliamentary regime in prison, a mindset that is forced to carry workers, officers to political rallies, a sense of freedom as a social problem, a sense that keeps media and judiciary in monopoly? We need to measure and weigh this proximity well. Again, let us move to February 28th the understanding of governance that dominates today's atmosphere, close to the mental state of the university executives, who are briefing with their epaulets, and who are attending these meetings with their robes, to express themselves in public, as they believe, are the young people who are being pushed and pushed into tomorrow's dreams? Dear lawmakers, this is why today's struggle for democracy is also a battle for reputation in history, a battle for national sovereignty. Mr. President-General Coral Akşener said that in the presence of national sovereignty, the state's owner is 84 million. (Applause from the parties) The state belongs to the entire nation, and this is the title of the government, and everyone is a shareholder of 84 million to 1. His name is the same as Bilal's; Ismet Yılmaz's is equal to Ismail Tatüoğlu's is equal; his is equal to that of Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu's is equal to that of State Bahçeli's and his is equal to that of Merkel Akşener's. In this context, one should say that the search for a reference other than that is the supreme sovereignty, the rights. Today, in a country with 60 points that have failed to enter the ranks with 90 points, and today everyone is equal, but the members of power are equal. When we look at the new order that enforces the word, we need to see the presence of a national sovereign in Turkey in a very vivid way. Highly valued lawmakers are the law of a free and equal Parliament, and Parliamentary law in this framework is the only authority that prevents this right from being declared. We can't solve any of society's problems by violating this Parliament's law, by dissociating society, and by dealing with structures and organizations in compartments. Turkey is a citizen in the field of solutions to all kinds of problems. We can't solve problems in Turkey with political compartments; this is a political feud, and the world can't solve it that way. Dear lawmakers, the public's expectations are really high in this context. The will to conquer Istanbul is one of the main desires of the will to open this Assembly, then to form the republic, to make the people of this land happy and peaceful, to present them with the world's most advanced conditions and standards, to create a country where they will live in freedom and prosperity, to feel first class for them. Although at times it stumbles, Turkey has not lost its desire and we cannot lose it. Therefore, as the Good Party, we have this desire. With this nation that doesn't fit in a single man's jacket, we'll call the 21st century race...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0016par0146	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0015par0147	...to a rising Turkey, to a free Turkey. We know that it's freedom that makes a land a homeland, and we want it, we want it to be a fair Turkey, we want it to be a rich Turkey. That's the real reason we're fighting the strengthened Parliament. In this framework, we honor and cherish the first President of our Gazi Parliament, who declared the nation's unconditional sovereignty in Ankara, a hundred and two years ago and opened the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Commander-in-Chief of the Istlic War, and all of our comrades and all of our martyrs, all of our founding staffs who have served under this sacred roof today, honoring all of the parliamentarians who have served under this sacred roof. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] According to university data, we are aware that during a time when 7.5 million children were unable to feed and warm, our nation could not celebrate this holiday as much as it should, but together we celebrate the holiday of our beloved nation. Again, we celebrate our beloved nation's next week's Kadir Night and the Festival of Ramadan. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0017par0153	Thank you, Mr. Tastyoglu.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0018par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0017par0155	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0018par0156	Sir, I'd like to ask you to speak to me on a matter of people's will.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0017par0157	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0018par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. One hundred and two years ago, under Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, we celebrate this day when we announced our sovereignty to the world. Today, a president of the Republic of Turkey and of the military as commander-in-chief should have stood before us in front of the MPs first, in front of us in the Memorial. Today, the seat of the presidency should not have been left empty while the will of the House was here and celebrating this day. (Applause from the CHP and the Party's rows) I'd like to welcome the MPs here in the House to celebrate this Day of Sovereignty. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he shouldn't have disrespected the will of the nation by doing a separate program in Istanbul at this hour, and I strongly condemn it.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0019par0165	That's disrespectful!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0020par0166	The mic's off, the microphone's off.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0018par0167	The microphone was off, sir. I'd like to repeat.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0019par0168	Hear ye, hear ye!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0021par0169	That's enough!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0022par0170	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0023par0171	At this time today, when the will of the nation is spoken, we say that it is disrespectful to the people's will that the person sitting in the chair of the presidency do a separate program, and I strongly condemn it.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0024par0173	That's disrespectful!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0025par0174	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0026par0177	Friends, we are also concerned with the first of the issues mentioned by Mr. Ozkoc. A long time ago -- I can't remember the date right now -- but I think it's about a decade or so -- there was an arrangement for holidays. On April 23rd, the delegation of the Speaker of Parliament is taking place at the ceremony held at the Memorial.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0025par0179	Bravo! Did you get the answer?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0026par0180	There are separate arrangements for other festivals; they are being led by the President on Republic Day.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0027par0181	Old Turkey, old Turkey!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0028par0182	So that's the right thing to do?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0026par0183	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0029par0184	That's disrespectful!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0030par0185	Sir, if you'll excuse me, for the record.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0029par0186	That's disrespectful!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0031par0187	He's putting a schedule in Istanbul, okay?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0032par0188	Even if he didn't put it on the schedule, why didn't he put it on?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0033par0189	Wait a minute, guys, wait a minute. Let's hear it, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0034par0190	For the record, a true President of the Republic of Turkey, no one can forbid me from respecting and respecting Ataturk, in front of my nation. He was supposed to send this law back.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0035par0192	That's disrespectful!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0033par0193	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0036par0194	You're disrespectful!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0035par0195	It's disrespectful to commit violence.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0033par0196	Wait a minute, guys...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0035par0197	That's disrespectful!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0037par0198	You're disrespectful!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0038par0199	Get out of here!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0037par0200	I'm not violent, you're disrespectful!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0039par0201	Friends... friends, please, let's not.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0037par0202	Where is he? Why isn't he doing it?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0040par0203	You shut up! What, he's gonna ask you?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0039par0204	Look... friends...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0041par0205	That's really disrespectful.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0039par0206	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0042par0207	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0043par0208	You should be ashamed of your president. How can you yell at him like that?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0044par0209	I wish it could be yours.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0043par0210	Your president is with you, isn't he rude!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0045par0211	Friends, if you take your word for it, it's under the Civil Code.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0043par0212	You're yelling at him, aren't you? Disrespecting your president...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0045par0213	Friends, please... word is requested in the House, when the Speaker gives his word, please. Yeah, well, for today, let's at least fit in.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0046par0214	Let's start my time again.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0045par0215	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0046par0218	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on this fine holiday of our nation. April 23rd, 85 million celebrates a special holiday with excitement and honor within 785 thousand square miles. I don't think it's right to approach this festival with different opinions, with approaches that we know the reasons for.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0047par0220	Where are your deputies?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0048par0221	Where are they?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0049par0222	Friends, this is Mr. Turan speaking, no one else has a say right now, please...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0050par0223	It's a fact that we've all been following for years, given the best example of the separation of legislature, led by the Speaker of Parliament on April 23rd, followed by other ceremonies, led by Mr. President. The bottom line is, every April 23rd, our deputies go to the Memorial, not the first time.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0051par0224	Since when?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0052par0225	Why isn't he here today?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0050par0226	Although you know this, I think it's unfair to say this to your own constituents, your people, in the first place. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I beg you for one more moment.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0053par0229	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0050par0230	Mr. President, I'm sorry to inform you that this is not the way for today's spirit, today's moon. You have no respect for us, we're used to it -- you're yelling, you're calling -- but you have Mr. President with you, and you have no respect for him? You should at least use a quieter language to honor him.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0054par0232	Are we going to learn respect from you?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0050par0233	I don't think it's right to say those words by sitting next to Mr. Kilicdaroglu and shouting here -- I'll say it as a street mouth, and I apologize. First, respect your own president, and then respect the entire nation.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0055par0235	They're playing roles, roles.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0050par0236	Mr. President, April 23rd belongs to the entire nation, to all of us, to celebrate again from the heart.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0056par0237	Mr. President, for the record, just for the record...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0057par0238	Mr. Ozkoc, look, I wasn't promising according to 60, you said you had a statement.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0056par0239	Yeah, yeah. Just for the record, Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0058par0240	Why would it be on the record? Speech!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0057par0241	Please, let him through.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0056par0242	Those who should be ashamed are the ones who discredit the Assembly and make alternative programs in Istanbul.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0058par0244	Get out of here!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0059par0245	We answered that.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0246	Friends, now it's time for the chairman of Turkey's Labour Party...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0061par0247	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, sir, I'd like to take a short word for 60.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0062par0248	Yeah, well, that's not an app.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0249	Your speech...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0061par0250	For what you've always given, for what you've promised...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0251	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0063par0252	Since when is it a crime to be around people?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0064par0253	You should respect your own president!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0255	Guys, please...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0064par0256	Respect your president, your president!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0257	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0064par0258	Respect your president, speak up, respect your president!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0259	Mr. Bak, please...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0065par0260	Mr. President...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0261	Mr. Destici, I promised, please...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0065par0262	Mr. President, let's have our talks, and the Deputy Directors of the Group can argue all sorts of things later.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0263	Well, I'll let you guys run it, okay?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0065par0264	Let's have a conversation, and then they can talk about whatever they want to talk about.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0265	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0066par0267	Now, I congratulate you on your April 23rd Day. Today is the 102nd anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I think there's been a misunderstanding, not the fact that Mr. President didn't attend the ceremonies in Hanitkabir, but the subject of criticism. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is at 14 p.m. He's holding a private meeting at 00, in the Riyasset of your predecessor and with the participation of the leaders of our political parties.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0269	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0066par0270	Excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0271	Okay, but what you call misunderstanding, you mean me, misunderstood...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0066par0272	No, no, I'm not talking to you.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0060par0273	Let's bring in the report, I've heard it well.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0066par0274	I mean, no, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the reaction.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0067par0275	No, the CHP didn't, but Mr. Musavat did?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0066par0276	Here's what's being criticised: It's 2:00 a.m. 00, 00, 00, 00,
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0068par0277	What, are you translating her?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0066par0278	If you'll excuse me, why are you reacting like this before you even know what I'm talking about? Now, it's 14 o'clock. The meeting began at 00, and you spoke to your husband, and Mr. Ismet Yilmaz spoke afterwards. At 2:30 p.m., after these talks were completed, a live broadcast began on the President's television stations.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0069par0280	It's a warped mentality.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0070par0281	How twisted, how twisted? What kind of a cheap job is that?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0066par0282	The point of respect here is that if the programme in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was introduced into Naziritibara and the President's programme was introduced, this respect crisis would not have happened, and there would not have been any debates.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0069par0283	It's a twist, a complete twist!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0066par0284	You're paying attention to this, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0069par0286	Total distortion! It's an expression of weakness.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0071par0287	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0072par0289	Mr. President, I don't understand why Mr. Musavat made a promise. (CHP and GOOD Party rankings) CHP reacted, made a statement.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0073par0290	Picking up, tidying up.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0072par0291	Was there a statement missing from the CHP, but Mr. Dervisoglu made a promise, and frankly, I thought it was strange.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0074par0292	Yeah, that's right, they didn't mean it; support.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0072par0293	In the same way, Mr. President's program is known to all the public, and if his absence is a matter of criticism, there is no Miss Coral now, as far as I know, Mr. President is gone.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0075par0294	Yes!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0072par0295	Yeah, this argument is pointless.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0075par0296	Nonsense!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0076par0297	Is that the President?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0072par0298	Everyone's got a schedule, everyone's got their own schedules, their own organization, their citizens, their provinces.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0075par0299	Besides, he's with the kids!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0072par0300	She is in another province, and our President is in Istanbul; there is no problem with that, Mr. Dervisoglu. I say we go with the spirit of today's holiday.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0077par0301	Bayram, Children's Day.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0072par0302	Let's listen to all of the presidents, Mr. President, and let's continue this matter together.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0078par0303	Don't let anyone twist the subject!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0079par0304	Thank you. Now, if you'll just...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0080par0306	My name is mentioned, I'll fix it.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0079par0307	Mr. Mosquito, please...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0081par0308	There is no such app, Mr. President!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0080par0309	But, I mean, that's what I'm saying right now.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0082par0310	The microphone isn't on, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0080par0311	It doesn't matter if you turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0083par0312	On the record, please.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0080par0314	I told them my meaning, and they got it wrong again; they got it wrong again, as usual.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0084par0315	We don't get it wrong, you give us support, open support, what's wrong?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0080par0316	I mean, look, I'm not criticizing Mr. President because he's not here...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0085par0317	Don't twist it, don't twist it!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0080par0318	And I'm not criticizing Mr. President that he didn't show up.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0086par0320	Where's Ms. Meral?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0087par0321	Where the hell is your president?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0088par0322	Where's Ms. Meral?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0089par0323	Guys...
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0090par0324	But at the same time that both the Republican People's Party and the party's secretary -- met on a special agenda in Turkey's Grand National Assembly -- I see the president's appearance as a Turkish citizen as a miscommunication error.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0091par0325	None of your business! He was going to consult you?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0090par0326	And I'd like those who've come to know this to improve their situation. What's wrong with that you don't understand?
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0092par0328	CHP doesn't need a lawyer, mind your own business!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0091par0329	We're supposed to be consulting you!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0090par0330	Of course you're gonna ask me! Speak if you understand what I'm saying, you're talking before you know it!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0092par0331	CHP doesn't need a lawyer!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0090par0332	Mr. Bak, please be respectful, sir, please be elegant.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0093par0333	Dear friends, before we break, let's complete this session, the merger, please. Friends, it is now the chairman of Turkey's Labour Party and the Istanbul MP Mr. Erkan Bashata. Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0094par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute from the heart all our citizens who live by the labor, by the sweat of our voice. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founders of the House, honoring all the MPs who stand for the rights of workers, workers, poor villagers, and I celebrate the anniversary of the assembly's founding. Today, we are here to celebrate the founding anniversary of our House, and we are also here to take a major step towards a revolution that has made sovereignty unconditionally owned by the people. Each revolution develops three different human attitudes. One, those who support the revolution -- two, those who want to move the revolution further -- while usually the dissolving, the self-sons of the revolution -- three, counter-revolutionaries. Now, their fight isn't over after the revolution, it's always over. If the first or second ones gain weight, those revolutions will be celebrated with joy, with enthusiasm, with excitement, but once the thirds are stronger, it will be just as they are today. First, someone, then their so-called rival, one man, sits on the couch and celebrates the fact that he doesn't even bother to get up from his palace and come to the House. Now, we invite people to pay their respects, to pay their respects at a show of celebration. I say, "Friends, I invite all of you to take a position of concern for our children; we need to be anxious, we need to be anxious. Look, it's April 23rd, it's full of joy. Remember what we used to say? Now there's not much joy anymore; because of power, we have a variety of emotions, a lot of emotions, but we're not full of joy at all. For example, from the marketplace, the nets are empty, so that gangs, minions, palaces can be filled, and we're all filled with suffering. Because of misogynistic politics, the streets are filled with murderers, and we're full of shame. If they go to people who have studied with a thousand trials, let them go. They say, "They go abroad to live as men; we are filled with longing and longing." When we see people picking up leftovers on Sunday nights to find food, we tear our eyes out. Mommies and daddies struggling to find their son's killers are all over the place. When a citizen can't pay his rent, we fill up with a lot of anger when citizenship is free. My crush, my friends, we are full of all the bitter emotions in your power. I'll remind you again: What will you be when you grow up? They'll say, "I'll become a doctor, I'll become an engineer, I'll be a teacher." Now I'm not asking those kids, I'm asking power: what's going to happen to these kids? Will they be refugees, refugees, victims of their lives in the community's homes, victims of abuse, or not from you? If it were up to you, it would be, but we won't leave it to you. Look, I've told you many times what power eats on this stand. Today, our children, because they ate, I'll tell you what they can't eat. Children can't eat meat, can't eat eggs, can't eat cheese, can't drink milk, can't see fruit, vegetables on TV, commercials, or the news of a raise. Look, dear friends, children, mother, father, biscuit, chocolate. They can't even ask that pain because they can see the condition of their families. So on your way out, you condemned the children to live on one meal. Unfortunately, you stole the children's dreams, their hopes, their future. That's why, you know, we're also full of rebellion. When we were kids, the ones who dreamed of teaching, now they can't be appointed. Their dream was to raise bright generations, thanks to you, trying to raise money for bills, house rent. Math teachers are overwhelmed by inflation you can't calculate. I'll tell you one thing: no history will forgive you, no history, no appointed history teachers, and know that from the seats you love, the children you steal today and tomorrow. I would like to address my younger brothers here, my brothers and sisters, history will write you. When they were born, they cast out the ruling party. You will be called, "They have torn out the darkness in which they were born." You will be called, "They have brought this country into the light." It will be called for you. Honestly, guys, there's a lot of stuff, we're booked up here, but we're short on time.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0095par0352	There's one game in a hundred thousand, and you're still saying that!
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0094par0353	Let me just say that the power that steals everything has not stolen our stubbornness, our hope, our determination, my friends.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0096par0355	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0094par0356	Know that from now on, we live only for those good times. You know, for the days when we're going to send our children, our children who have been forced to work, our forced-to-be-married daughters back to school, because we're going to be desperate to bring back those who go abroad with songs and songs and songs and songs, you know, those pictures of Recep Erdogan that you hang in every room of every state institution, you'll see how we bring them down, and the country will be filled with joy. And, friends, with this joy, we will rebuild the country together. We will build together a bright future for our children, social justice, land, bread, trust, equality, freedom, peace. I see you smiling when you hear our claim, but remember, what we did a hundred and two years ago was a revolution. Every time the people in this country get stuck, we walk out of there with a revolution, and we get out again. One hundred and two years ago, we took the crown from a family, and we'll take it again. A hundred and two years ago, there was a court regime, we buried it, we buried it again.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0096par0358	Let's complete it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0094par0359	On April 23, 2022, we pledge to our working people as the Turkish Workers' Party that the family will end, the reigning regime will end, and the sovereignty will be your people again.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0096par0361	It now belongs to the Democratic Party's President and Afyonkarahisar MP Mr. Gültekin Uysal. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0097par0364	Dear President, my dear General Assembly, my dear nation, my dear young people, this is the only place in the name of the nation and the country and its account, your high council. We can't abandon this legal right, this national right, this natural right to no one, with no reason or thought, to any council. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, said. The struggle for salvation was for this right, not only a battle against the enemy in the battlefields, but a decisive struggle for the nation's sole sovereignty. After the Great Battle of Ataturk, who fought a glorious battle in the field with his comrades in the Battle of Salvation, he sought to establish a system that was named after the nation's belief. Our beloved nation built the dominion under this roof when it died for my will. In its name, our conclave has been committed to become the greatest decision-making authority in our nation. We understand much more these days the spiritual nature of April 23 of which we have been given to the future, to our children, as it emphasizes the eternity of the establishment of our great nation's great work - the establishment of the great assembly and the national sovereignty. The great Ataturk should know that this state and this nation no longer has any power, no authority. Our Grand Assembly had certainly been a triggerer on the road to victory, with the role he played in the victory of the Battle of Salvation. In this regard, it is a symbol of integrity of both the organization's salvation and sovereignty, as well as of a nation that has rejected all differences and managed to become one. To screen their own protection, their sovereignty, we fight for salvation. This is the great gift of the Salvation War for the future of the nation. The principle of national sovereignty is not simply a principle that is made up of foreign sources, public movements, doctrines, and is eagerly given to them. This principle is a product of two centuries of historical experience, the unique development of the Turkish nation. It is a pity that today our great Assembly, who has defied the Jihan, led the establishment of a state, defeated many enemies and structures, has been weakened and removed from being a symbol of national sovereignty. The Turkish Parliament has been limited to its ability to set priorities so that the country's main issues can be discussed, and the Turkish nation's capacity to be revealed at the highest level. But if it's getting into a person's frame, problems, expectations, solutions, it's getting back at them. My dear nation, the esteemed lawmakers, our nation has given us a guarantee of history and payback. There is no doubt that when the will of our nation, which has drowned persecution with its unity, is found in our Veterans Assembly, there will be all sorts of solutions to chronic matters. Our Veteran Assembly, which is the basis of its rule, began to lose its attributes, as if it were being pushed back in history by an understanding of a person and a people who saw the rule of law with the house. What must not be forgotten is that this House is founded in the effort to establish the sovereignty of the nation. This is not a place where the rights of our nation are left behind. Our nation has given us power of attorney to preserve their rights and their superiority. Now, this great House can only fulfill its promise to our martyrs, to those who gave their lives for the War of Salvation and for those who later gave their lives for their sovereignty. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We are the only ones who have the power of our nation, and we can only have the pleasure of our nation if we do what is right for the benefit of our nation, for the welfare of our nation. The most natural way to do this is by re-integrating the Parliament to its original soul, re-integrating justice, a functioning legal order, a functioning democratic order. My dear nation, we, who are members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are most fundamentally responsible for maintaining this Parliament's quality and keeping our nation as one and true sovereign. I celebrate the 102nd anniversary of the opening of our Parliament, the highest representation of the national will, with the belief that the days are near, compared with the original quality of our coven. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is with the grace of the President of the First Assembly, the founder of our republic, the great Ataturk, and his fellow combatants who gave such a day to our children, who are the guarantees of our state and nation. Today, I would like to address our nation on the 102nd anniversary of the resurrection of this Assembly, the one inviolable act of the nation's will: If it is a sovereign nation, the children of the festival will be happy. We've experienced otherwise: children are hungry, thirsty, unhappy, and unable to imagine a future in the land of their birth. I kiss our children in this beautiful day, with love and hope, as guarantees of the happiness of the world, of our republic and of our national sovereignty. Again, congratulations on the day of our nation's reign, April 23rd, National Sovereignty and Children's Day.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0098par0377	Thank you. Now, it belongs to Mr. Mustafa Destici, the chairman of the Grand Unity Party and the Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0099par0381	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, my fellow citizens, first of all, I salute your sentence with respect and conversation, and I wish you all the best. At first, I salute our heroic army, who launched a holy campaign against the treacherous PKK terror organization, who launched Operation Claw-Kilit, and who said, "My Lord, let them be your help and help," and I bless and thank you for all of our soldiers who have been martyrs in this operation and in the past. Precious MPs, the Great National Assembly of Turkey, have always represented hope for our nation. If our nation has a Parliament today, if the nation has a will, if its representatives are serving in Ankara, let's not forget that hope and the will of the nation have overcome every obstacle, every enemy and every challenge, and our moon-star flag has continued to fluctuate in the sky. Precious MPs, you know, we take our children to the First Assembly building in Ankara Ulus every chance we get, because that building, alone, teaches our nation and history the amazing difference between the possibilities and the miracle the Turkish nation has achieved; that building, alone, shows us that no obstacle can be held captive, against the will of Turkey to exist, against the faith and power of Turkey. The Turkish Liberation War is a Polar Star for such reasons and in many ways for all the oppressed nations in the world. Dear MPs, the Republic of Turkey is not just a country of influence and power. The Republic of Turkey is a fortress of all our citizens, all over the world, all over the world, who say, "I am Turk. I am Turkish." It is a fortress of all the world and of all the people who have fallen and been persecuted and wronged, of every Muslim, of every oppressed person, of his own knowledge, of armor, of his own, of his protector, of his own, of his own, of his own protection, of compassion, of his hand and of his justice. Dear MPs, the Republic of Turkey, the more united we are, the more united we are, the more united we are, the stronger we are in our values that make us nations. The more we strengthen our democracy, freedoms, justice, the more powerful the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be. The way to do that is to build a civil, democratic new constitution with our House and our nation. It's futile for us to ignore this and look for the future at the system desks. Dear MPs, in Article 66 of our Constitution, all who are bound by citizenship to the Turkish State are Turkish. The Republic of Turkey considers each citizen one and equal, regardless of differences in faith and origin. From the day Turkey opened in the Grand National Assembly, it has served numerous representatives of different beliefs, religion, sects and ethnic origins that have the identity of the Republic of Turkey. Precious ready, let us never forget that while our army was disbanded, our weapons were seized, our government lost sovereignty, our struggle to exist in the absence of land, while our Gazi Parliament ruled our War of Salvation, there were no representatives of the Greek army, there were no British soldiers, there were no Armenian gangs, and there were no extensions of those counties.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0100par0390	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0099par0391	Today, however, those who have waged war against the existence of the state, the indivisible integrity of the country and the nation, the murderers of tens of thousands of our citizens, the enemies of our union and our future, are unfortunately present in our Parliament. We all know that it's against domestic law and international law and human rights that terrorist organizations, those who speak for terrorist organizations, use public resources, politics, the Veteran Assembly as a means of propaganda. The Venice Criters and the European Court of Human Rights have made decisions. We are the patriotic, national lawmakers of our Veterans Congress; we bear responsibility to our nation and before history, and we must end this disgrace together.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0100par0394	Here you go.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0099par0395	Dear lawmakers celebrate the 102nd year of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd of the great Turkish nation, especially our children, kissing all our children with the hope of our future, I wish them a good and healthy life. On April 23rd, I remember the first President of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, his comrades from the foundation of our Parliament, who served the nation's legacy and future and all the members who were not among us today, who had received Rahmatirahman. Once again, I remember all our martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the defense of the country with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll give you my final statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0101par0399	I haven't given anyone this much time, it'll be three minutes, it'll double. Please, you're about to finish.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0099par0401	I congratulate you on the Day of Ramadan, the night of Kadir, which we will understand next week, and on the day that we will welcome you with great joy, I salute you with respect and conversation, and I entrust it to Allah.
tbmm-2022-04-23sit01spe0101par0403	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Members of parliament, the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been completed in an effort to celebrate the 102n anniversary and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, and to specify the meaning and significance of the day. In accordance with the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (April 26th 2022) to discuss law proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
