tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 33th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2018 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the fifth round today. The fifth round includes the Health Ministry, Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate, Turkey's Medicine and Medical Institute, the Ministry of Health Institutes, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, the Interior Ministry, Security General Directorate, the Ankara General Command, Coast Guard Command, the General Directorate of Immigration Administration, Afet and Emergency Management, the budget and final accounts. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, the talks on the tour will be promised 60 minutes to conduct the political party groups and to submit their opinions as required by Article 62 of the Interior Charter. These times can be used by more than one speaker and will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the fifth round, I read the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: İYİ PARTİ, İsparta MP Aylin Eskişehir MP Arslan Kabukcuoğlu, Muğla MP Metin Ergun, İstanbul MP Umit Özgun, Mersin MP Behic Çelik; Milliyetcı Movement Party, Kahramanmarash MP Aycan, Gaziantep MP Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan, İstanbul MP Hayati Araz, Adana MP Ayşe Sibel Ersoy, Gaziantep MP Sermet Atay, Düz MP İğdir MP Habıp Çelik; Peoples' Democratic Party, Diyarbakır MP Semra Balık, İstanbul MP Ali Musımazım Kımazıtın, İstanbul MP Ali Musımıtın, İstanbul MP Şaşaşaşı MP İsıtın, İstanbul MP İsün Bey Bey Bey Bey, İstanbul MP İstıtın, İstanbul MP İsımazımazı MP Kası MP Kası MP Kasılı, Şakı MP Kası, Usı MP Kasılı, Şa MP Kasıpıpıp İsılı, Şa MP Kası MP Kasılı, Şa MP Kasıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpılı, İstanbul MP Kasıpıpıpıpılı, Şarımıpıpıpıpıpıpıpı MP Kası MP Kasıpıpıpı MP Kası MP Kası MP Kası MP Kastı MP Kası MP Kasılı, İstanbul MP Kasıp İsı MP Kastın, Şa MP Kası MP Kasılı, Şa MP Kastıpımımımımımımımımımımımımıpıpımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımıpıpıp, Şerıpıpıpıpıp, Şerıpımımıp, Şarımıpıp, Şarıpıp, Şarımımımımımıp In favour of Karaman MP Selman Oğuzhan Eser; in the name of the execution, Health Minister Fahrettin Koca, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Murat Kurum, Interior Minister Süleyman Soylu; and Ankara MP Servet Üsal on behalf of him. Now, the first word, on behalf of the Good PARTY Group, is Mr. Aylin Gutsy. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0002par0057	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I've made a commitment to the health department budget on behalf of the good party. When I say budget -- and I said yesterday, I'll stress again -- budgetary rights are essential to democracy. In the budget, we're talking about where the taxes are being paid, and on behalf of the nation, we're the representatives here. In the budget, unlike any other law, we're always talking about how to use social resources, who to give them and what to do. No offense, we're doing our job. My statement is for last night's session. Because of our position here as opposition, our Minister, who came to the stand to explain his budget, had made some very strong statements about our internal functioning here, and I wanted to bring an opening. With the budget of 2019, Turkey met another handicap of the new system. There is a fundamental difference from the budgets of the previous years; Turkey's Grand National Assembly has also been stripped of its authority to run, determine government, and implement the country's budget. In 1999, Turkey paid the state a 46 per cent income and institutional tax from its capital sector to the state. It was reduced to 20 per cent during the EC PARTY administrations, so the tax rate of institutions received has been reduced by 57 per cent, and the budget of 2019 has been prepared for this understanding. However, indirect taxes, such as VAT, OTV, from large public clusters, have been raised to 18% since 2005, when indirect taxes, such as the VAT, were 10 per cent of the spending price in 1986. While these taxes are not paid by those buying diamonds, they must be paid for bread, vegetables, fruit, electricity, water, natural gas, refrigerators, shoes, bagels, city-wide transport costs, health care, books, newspapers and fuel. So in Turkey, the taxload is being raised on the back of the poor and with taxes from workers, small trades, peasants, and we're going to ask on behalf of the tax-paying citizen, of course, so we're doing our duty. Here's to the budget for health. The budget for health care in the 2020 budget is insufficient. The budget is intended to be divided into the Ministry of Health, when the budget's staff costs, the SGK state premium costs and the planned part as general public costs are removed, the amount left by the central budget for offering health care to the citizens is much lower than its share in modern countries. According to Treasury and Finance Ministry data, the main source of health expenditures in Turkey is the SGK. The share of the SGK's health expenditures was raised to 92.1% in 2017, after 75.9% in 2006. This means that at least 73 liras of health care spending in the healthcare area in 2017, including a premium payment in Turkey, is carried out by people. This should be in countries where income per capita is 30 to 40,000 dollars and income distribution are balanced, but in health, you have converted pharmacists into accountants, and in our country, where the number of poor is 50-60 million, there is an immovable burden on the citizens. If you don't have money, die. Is it? I don't mean that, but you better not have heard it. What to do? The central budget must be at least 40 per cent and the Health Ministry budget should be at least 10 per cent of the overall budget. Come on, let's cut down on the people who work for SGK bonus revenues and the people who work for their own account. When you say budget, it's city hospitals first. It's such a subject that it's unlikely that a single generation can treat the wound that it has caused at this moment, because the concessions that have come to the point of surrender are no different from the capitulations that are pulling the strings of the Ottoman state. We build hospitals without money from our pockets. Their explanations do not reflect the truth. We're mortgaged the future of our grandchildren, and with that understanding, we're also borrowing future generations. It is unacceptable for a foreign joint venture to be paid $3 billion 443 million for building a hospital for $427 million. It's unacceptable for our government to rent for 25 years with the signature of the AK PARTY government on an investment that will pay itself in three years. On behalf of our nation, we do not allow our rights for twenty-two years, nor for the next twenty-two. This is a great hump over our nation and unacceptable. Between 1997 and 2007, Britain used the public-private cooperation model intensively in health care investments, but with a huge increase in investment and business costs and a dissatisfaction of public health services, it gave up this model largely. How did he end up here? Let's take a look at our process: From 2003, Turkey began its World Bank-backed Health Transformation Programme. In 2007, the Integrated Health Campus Program began. Starting in 2011, the British consulting company Mott MacDonald began consulting for 6 city hospitals. On February 21, 2013, the Ministry of Health ordered a public-private cooperation model to build a facility. On March 27, 2015, London courts were appointed by Law 6639. In October 2016, the US consulting company Frost&Sullivan published a list of 15 city hospitals signed with the public-private cooperation model in Turkey, and the total investment cost was $8.4 billion. In 2018, 2, 2 cities opened in 8, 2019. The number of city hospitals signed and built is 10. 31 city hospitals are scheduled to be built in Turkey. Although its operational activities are limited, our heroic Court has a report. Let's see what the report says. There's an important issue in the Plan and Budget Commission, and it's been discussed before, unresponsively answered. Mr. Minister, we demand these, including city hospitals' tender documents and investment and business contracts and supplements -- including the purchases of medical services. This has been said before. Again, there is another detail in the Court report. Although health facilities have reached high hail rates, the amount-related services have been found to be kept below the guarantees of demand, and the Court says the guarantees to be given during the planning process have not been determined by a necessary analysis. Although there is no intubation baby unit at Elazig City Hospital, it is reported in the Court reports that guarantees are paid for the IVF. Since implementation projects in city hospitals have not been provided, it has been found that the application project for a city hospital, which has not been evaluated for commercial areas, which can be provided, is also used as commercial spaces in the application project. The financing of city hospitals projects is generally financed by foreign financiers and financial agreements are financed by financiers; it is said that it is not acceptable by foreign investors to suggest various problems in the Turkish judiciary, and therefore to make changes in some project contracts. In response, the administration stated that the subject was found due to demands from the financiers. In the event that health facilities are damaged, there is also the risk of conflict in the future, as insurance revenues are transferred to financing providers instead of rebuilding the facility, and there is no regulation on the rights and obligations of the parties. The report also underlines the difference between unit prices and sub-fractures of service pencils for payment for services related to quantity in city hospitals. For example, there are 355 units of chemo in Adana, the cost of making medicines, one unit in Elazığı, 355 times the difference. There are also significant differences in the services and rents applied to city hospitals. Sources are being abused. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to ask you again: how many hospitals have been closed in which district and how the number of beds have changed? Mr. Minister, there are also complaints that 112 put patients in the hospital and passed through many nearby hospitals. Is that even a thing? That's what I'd like to learn from you. How much does city hospitals cost, like electricity, water, natural gas, and from what resources are they paid? And let's ask: How much of the Health Department budget goes to city hospitals? Is that a problem for the Ministry of Health budget in the coming years? One more question: is education funding coming from the World Bank to city hospitals? If so, how is this fund used? City hospitals projects also have reflections in the field. My constituency is in Isparta, in Yenishardemli, in Senykent, the citizens are complaining, and in other counties. Isparta is two and a half hours away from the new winehead. Previously, the district has no attendings now, and in other counties, more or less the same. Patients have to go to the city hospital to print a prescription drug for the smallest thing. They have to stay there for two or three days and cover all the other costs until they're gone, which is a big problem. One important issue is first-level health care, valued lawmakers. According to the Court report, we are in a health environment where millions of doses of vaccines are thrown out. The vaccine rejection has reached a significant rate, and this has actually become very important for public health, including inoculated individuals. The immunization of immigrants is again an important problem, and this has taken a significant risk in terms of epidemics. The measles has increased dozens of times in recent years and has now become the subject of measles epidemics in the country. While millions of doses of vaccines were thrown away, the Health Department still didn't provide enough flu vaccines. The infrastructure of family health centers is very problematic, they provide health care in apartment buildings, and the ASM building has never been built by the Ministry of Health since the beginning of the family medicine system. The first step is a separate problem of occupational medicine, which is part of health care. A physician is a doctor of 50-60 workplaces, where work accidents and workers die every day. Again, the fact that the first digit is so full of problems is causing the confidence crisis towards the first step to increase and the emergency services of hospitals are taking the burden. Two times the population of the country goes to emergency rooms in a year, and I think the Health Department should find a rational solution to this problem and save our emergency services from that burden. The issue of health violence is also very important. In this budget, Mr. Health Minister talked about everything, but they didn't give any detail to the violence that doctors have the biggest problem with. This country has become remembered for the deaths of physicians, I'm afraid, Mr. Secretary. In the last six years, there's been nearly 80,000 cases of violence in health and one doctor per hour is subjected to violence. We've talked about this over and over and over again, in 2013, the Commission has been established, there are reports, we've offered laws, we've submitted motions, they've been rejected. In fact, there's to be done, there's an example of England, there's an example of Sweden. You have to do all this, make a legal arrangement, that's all. Why can't we do this legal arrangement here? I think it's a system problem. The number of physicians who leave the country abroad is increasing day by day. In 2012, the number of doctors who applied for a certificate of registration from the Turkish Medical Association -- each year according to the year -- rose -- and reached 906 (November this year) when they were 802 in 2018. Do you know what this is? The physicians are running away from our country. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary now if the Ministry is taking measures for that. The inequality between medical fees, the incredible differences between return capital fees and hospitals are a separate problem. Speaking of salary, salary differences between retired physicians are a very important problem. The lower pensions taken by physicians who retired from the SEC and BUG-KUR (I say as a physician) should be taken immediately, with shame. You know what he should do? The inevitable of democracy should take into account the sane suggestions of NGOs. The Dentists' Chamber, Medical Chamber, Medicine Room, Veterinary Medicine Room, they did a joint study, they came to us, they looked for a solution to the employment problem, and in 2014, they presented it as the Health Department, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance and Development's Health and Health Status Report in Turkey. The report states that health care should be employed with sufficient quantity, quality, proper distribution, proper timing and proper employment for human strength planning, to perform health care for society today and in the future. However, the practice, unfortunately, is not in our country. Health-related professions do not plan according to these criteria. As in all countries around the world, healthcare training is the most expensive education in our country. It is not possible for public health to be brought to modern countries without creating national health policies that prioritize protective and preventive health care, establishing human power planning according to the requirements, demand and population criteria. The increase in faculty and student quotas over the last ten years has been alarming, the graduates are rioting. You promise to appoint, so they wait patiently, and when they can't hire, they get depressed, thousands of messages come to us, and on behalf of myself, I'm concerned about their health. Last year, we presented dialysis technicians, motions. We'll take them with local regulations. You said: "A total of 174 people were taken in 2 accounts; their number is close to 400, and they are in rebellion."
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0003par0085	I'll give you one minute to complete your vows, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0002par0086	Paramedics, physical therapists, anesthesiologists, O.R. technicians, and, in fact, assistant medical staff... it's also a problem for emergency medical technicians, and they're really in trouble. They are also suffering from the fact that last year's promise of appointment will be divided into 2 (periods) this year. They've submitted a request for the appointment of 40,000 people next year, and I'll let you know, Minister, they're expecting 40,000 in 2020. Yeah, what should we do? We say: The Health Transformation Program in the 17-year-old AK PARTY government, as we say on this stand at every turn, has failed; let's return at once. In our country, as of 2018, we have a total of 1,16,401 medical staff. We've given them two parliamentary research motions to give them 3,600 additional indicators and you've rejected them as good parties; come on, let's do this. There has to be a new configuration. Let's get the performance system up. Let's increase health workers' naked salaries twice as much in retirement as possible. Let's not ask our pensioners for medical and medical contributions. Let's modernize public hospitals. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll say one sentence, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0004par0090	Let me just take your last sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0002par0091	Okay. Let's rearrange the activities of city hospitals along with debt contracts, in terms of the understanding of the regional residency hospital and the needs. Let's go back to good health reconstruction. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0005par0095	Mr. Arslan Shellcucuoğlu, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0006par0097	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI regarding the budgets of the health department institutions. I salute you all. First of all, I want to congratulate the Ministry on getting rid of this hump because his contract is classified, his investigation is London, and what he's bringing in, and what he's taking out of the city hospitals. The Ministry of Health shows how far it has traveled within itself, compared its data with data in 2002. But the world doesn't stop, and other countries around the world have health services, and they're making some progress. Mr. Secretary, because of the graphics you showed in your budget presentation, I feel a lack of character because this is a graph that violates all statistical rules. If a sentence is to be described, it can be described for different years, but different bones, when a graph is created by taking different years, it's a matter of doubt among people, a matter of doubt. What is the world's health development? For example, when the baby's death rate is 9.2 per thousand, the OECD average is 6.2, so we have about 50 percent more baby deaths than OECD countries. Again, when we look at the rate of mother death, we have 14.6 births, while the OECD average is 6.2, so our mothers lose twice as many lives as they do. There are 1.9 physicians in our country, and that's half of the OECD average. Again, in the same way, we have 2.1 nurses per thousand, which is 1 fourth of the OECD average. In our country, the average of OECD is 2.181, as one physician examines 4,765 patients. Our physicians work twice as hard as OECD physicians. In comparison with the GDP rates of other data, the OECD average is 8.8 per cent; the OECD average is more than twice as high as our spending. At this rate, Turkey ranks third to last among the OECD countries. We have an average of 4.1 days, while the OECD average is 7.3 days. We keep our patients in the hospital for half the OECD average. These are why health care in our country is cheap. All data shows the difference between OECD and Turkey. As a result, health care in our country, despite all the impossible, is comparable to OECD. Mr. Secretary, you're doing a patient satisfaction survey, and you're asking the patient in these polls if the medical staff, the nurse, the doctor, the midwife were nice to you when you left, were they smiling? Was the hospital clean? But the statistics we want to see are: what is the correlation of the pathology report and the surgical diagnosis? How often do the discharged patients come back to the hospital? What's the rate of repertification? What are the rates of hospital infection? What's the rate of morbidity and mortality? The inputs of health are human beings as primers. Each entry of our ministry is below the OECD average, but our country is at the latest compared to other OECD countries. When compared with OECD, our outputs are successful within the OECD according to the Ministry of Health inputs. The Ministry of Health is one of Turkey's most successful ministries. So, how does this work? Mr. Secretary, his maid, his secretary, his medical technician, his nurse, his doctor, they all have their share in this success. I want to stress in particular the two groups: one, unfortunately, is that the highest scores on the SNSM exams are in medicine. The heart wants them to be teachers. THE GOOD PARTY realizes that on its way to power. Our party will provide physicians with opportunities to work all over Turkey instead of mandatory service. Second chance, midwives, nurses. These people, who come from many scarce, disadvantaged families, work hard, thirst for success, compromise their social lives at the most unfortunate times by serving in the most unlikely parts of their country, and share a fateful partnership with the doctor. Normally, a doctor employs a midwife and a nurse, midwives in critical times, nurses tend to be doctors. I think it's the health department's advantage and the essentials to the minister's success. Mr. President, medical technicians and all employees deserve all the credit. They have a staff problem. Furthermore, more is needed in Turkey, much is beyond the need. As far as I know, you're raising people in 17-18, and they're upset about life, they don't have a chance of getting into the Ministry of Health or any hospital. We're not supposed to upset these kids, these young people. Wherever they need to get a job, wherever they need to work, they need to plan and be led there. The 3600 additional indicators you haven't solved will solve the good PARTI power. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Mr. Secretary, there's no ministry staff as violent as your Ministry's staff. Be with them. If you can afford to give up populism, your symbolic participation in a violent cause would be very comforting to the staff, a deterrent to the ignorant. Paramedics are victims of popular behavior called non-alternate. If you can't do anything, you can supply hospitals with posters like these provided by the Australian government. I did some research yesterday, and there's only one poster like this at Eskişehir City Hospital. Having posters like this will give the staff a sense that you're there for them, and it will boost their motivation. Public authority says, "Go, get your examination, get your treatment, give a couple of slaps to doctors and nurses, come!" These posters in the hospital corridors will at least show that you're not behind such words. In recent years, the children of foreigners who have migrated to our country with the encouragement of the President have become a threat to the health of our country, especially our children. The body and mental health of immigrant children is what the Ministry of Health needs to take care of. This is mandatory for the health and social life of our nation's people. There is a obligation for our country to develop national drugs and vaccines. If the $200 million annual vaccine is produced in our country, our children's health will be protected and a new export door will be born for our country. The use of rational medicine in society is manageable, it must be managed. It will prevent waste and prevent complications at the same time. Medical equipment used in hospitals must provide the possible standardization and brand unity. If that doesn't happen, our hospitals won't be able to get out of the medical equipment junkyard. The best solution is to solve our needs with national resources and resources. Is that possible? Of course it's possible. Our country has resources, but this may not be possible with the understanding of the government. You go, you go, you go, you go, you go, you go, you go, you go, you go, you go, you go, you go, you go, you Given our outside dependency on medical equipment, this is a very important and open field; it is also a field with export facilities. Turkey's Health Institutes Presidency is seen as a mission to provide financial and technical support for applications and research related to health sciences technologies, services and policies. We appreciate that purpose, too. We're hoping they'll work effectively. It's too late for such an institution. As our president-in-chief, Coral Akşener, says, Turkey has every opportunity to succeed. The Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and the Ministry of Agriculture are also indirectly involved in the efficiency and quality of health care. So the improvement of outputs in health is not only dependent on the Ministry of Health's will, but also on the will of the ministries that I counted just now. Paramedics are patient, making all kinds of sacrifices for their country. GOOD PARTY will take measures to stop violence in health. Medical personnel will find the financial support they deserve. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are having a parliamentary meeting on Mars. I'm a member of the third generation. My relatives were driven to different places in the country. Mr. Kamran İnan, the Ministry of State, the Ministry of Energy in the Republic of Turkey, is a citizen who returned the Légion D'Honneur Medal that the President of France gave him because they accepted the so-called Armenian Genocide Act. The late Abidin İnan Gaydal, who was in his village with the late Süleyman Demirel. As far as I can remember from the news of the newspaper at the time, he made a pair of silk pajamas for every one of his guests.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0007par0118	Pick up your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0006par0119	We are in a land where there are as many traitors as the late Kamran Believers. There is no other land on earth that produces as many traitors as our land. Mars, the minister of honor, has studied in the best schools, has embraced his family. If Mr Kemal Bulbül, MP of Antalya, was among us, he would have said, "Edep ya Hu!" I salute the High Council. I wish our Ministry of Health and Health budget were successful in 2020. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0008par0124	Mr. Metin Ergun, Mughal MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0009par0127	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the Veteran Assembly these days, where sovereignty is unconditionally and is only nation's, and it is imperative that it be highlighted aloud. I'd like to welcome you to our views on the 2020 budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. A country's testing of urbanism, its policies and long-term goals represent its approach to cultural heritage, its desire to modernise, its belonging to its values, and, more importantly, its national sensitivities. The policies in the formation of urban sites also reveal the power's relationship with the social and political field. Clearly, the AK PARTY government has failed in this regard. We have to accept that our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is far behind in the digital revolution of modern examples. The situation is no different in deeds and cadastro services. It is clear that effective and urgent reforms are needed in this area. The AK PARTY authorities, which fail to meet the needs of the age, have also shown a disorientation of urbanization, the embodiment of the concepts of culture and civilization. In essence, cities are the mirrors of the society that contain the codes of many cultures and civilizations, reflect their souls, show their wealth in knowledge and knowledge. In this respect, cities are where the understanding of civilization and historical cultures of the nations are displayed. As a matter of fact, in the past, we had many cities, such as Istanbul, Burma, Erzurum, Samarkant, Buhara, Kashgar and Turfan, where our understanding of civilization was exhibited in our historical and cultural perspective. Today, all of our cities have become identityless and unsubstantiated, turned into a pile of concrete, becoming unclear which culture, which civilization they carry. In order to grasp the route of Turkish-Islam civilization in the city's understanding, respected lawmakers should be especially looked at cities such as Samarkant, Buhara, Kashgar and Turfan. These cities are not just simple architectural formations or randomly constructed settlements, but are historical cradles where Turkish-Islam civilization and culture are displayed all over the world. Speaking of Kashgar and Turfan, I would also like to point out that these cities are in East Turkistan, which groans under persecution today. Reverend MPs, East Turkistan is not an ordinary geography for us. This geography was within the border of the first Muslim Turkish state, the Karahans, and therefore, for the first time, we Muslim Turks call it "La gode illahah," the geography of Muhammaden Ulullah. The tomb of Satuk Buğra Khan, the first Muslim Turkish Khan, is located. East Turkistan is the geography of the first Turkish dictionary, the divan, written by Lügat-it-Türk, and the permanent resting place of Mahmud of Khashgar. East Turkistan is a geography written by Kutadgu Bilig, which contains Turkish government philosophy, virtue and morality, and by his author Yusuf Has Hacip. Today's Chinese persecution in East Turkistan is not just a chain around the neck and a wound opened in our bosom, but also a direct attack on Turkish-Islamic civilisation and urbanism that reflects its understanding of urbanism. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] AS A GOOD PARTY, it is our duty to defend our kin and cultural heritage to the end. We find it difficult to understand the silence of power in the face of this persecution. We do not know whether the reason for this silence is economically condemned to $3.5 billion in Chinese dollars, or politically sentenced to three-and-a-half Maoists. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Respected lawmakers, we can't keep up with our historical urbanism and we can't keep up with modern urbanism. Many countries study energy use and transport activities in their cities at minimum cost, implementing these studies quickly. While digital solutions exist in European countries, our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism cannot even implement the restoration of historical structures in accordance with the needs of the age. The ministry's shortcomings are not limited to being behind the times. When we make an assessment in Istanbul, between 1999 and 2003, 493 concentration sites were set up by the Istanbul County Afet Central Council, while more than 3/4 of these areas today have been built, and these areas, which are mandatory for the implementation of emergency plans and evacuations, have been converted to the AVM, housing projects and parking structures. In addition, Ankara has only five skyscrapers in Ankara, before the power of the EC PARTI, and Ankara is now the 4th most vertical city in Europe with 68 skyscrapers. That's a pretty big deviation for power, which claims to be aimed at horizontal urbanization. In addition to Istanbul and Ankara, the Ottoman heritage has suffered the greatest impact on the historical fabric of our Erdogan, with the dwellings of Turkey's Erdogan, which are completely contrary to city planning. In the same way, almost all of our lakes across Turkey are flooded with unpurified sewage water from villages and neighborhoods. The lack of planning in urbanization policies and unsmart governance of the construction of sewage systems lead to polluting of our natural resources and increasing natural destruction. Honourable lawmakers, as you know, the State Department of Environment and Urbanism claims that the proposal for the law, which envisions a change in the Boğaziçi Law, will be brought to parliament. According to the allegations, the powers of Istanbul's Metropolitan Mayor stemming from the Bosphorus Act will be allowed to rebuild instead of the illegal structures that will be destroyed by the new draft, which envisions the transfer of the president and its members to the institutions and boards that will be appointed by the President. Local governments have a corporate personality separate from the corporate personality of the central administration. It's not enough that there's been a division of authority for the existence of this corporate personality. The authority to make decisions on such matters and to conduct their decisions must also be given to the local authorities' own organs. Such sharing of authority and thus the legally envisioned legal personality will have no meaning if the central authorities are to decide on matters left to the Mahalile authorities on their behalf. It is also incompatible with the basic principles of democracy and the fundamental principles of the law of local governance. Honourable MPs, I'd like to address another important matter. The Canal Istanbul Project, which has been under way for years and has recently been re-rescheduled, is one of the government's projects that would be incompatible with Istanbul's historical fabric. As the project is planned, are the dangers of tanker traffic, the negative consequences of agriculture and forest terrain, the issues that have been thoroughly examined whether Istanbul's natural life resources will be compromised, and whether or not they will increase the risk of earthquakes? As our President-General, Coral Akshener, stated, the Strait of Istanbul belongs to the Turkish people, and it is necessary not to be stubborn in this matter. Apart from all these issues, there are many environmental issues, such as the tree massacre in the Kaz Mountains, which is vital to our time, such as the sacrifice of the Dipless Lake to the booty hunters, such as the filterless thermal plant chimneys in Afshin-Elbistan, Mugla Yaten. All these criticisms show that power is inadequate in terms of environmental and urban policy. It is easily understood from the results of the polls in the March 31st local elections, where our citizens are as uncomfortable with popular urban policy as we are. As I stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, I wish that the budget of 2020 would be good for our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0010par0144	Mr. Umit Özdağ, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0011par0146	Mr. President, I'm going to share with you and the Turkish public the opinion of the good party of the Interior Ministry budget in 2020. However, I'd like to start by condemning the Chinese fascist pressures against the Uygur Turks in East Turkistan with hatred. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] The Ministry of Interior is head of the largest ministries in terms of work and responsibility. Many important institutions of state bureaucracy depend on the Ministry of Interior; the Security Directorate, the General Command of the Gendarme, the Coast Guard Command, and the security guards form a 442,183-strong armed force. The most basic duty of those institutions is to be martyrs, if necessary, for the protection of the Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, such a task is carried out only on high morale, institutional culture and tradition. At the beginning of the values of the Turkish gendarmes, the banner comes as any army. Although the AKP has arranged that the gendarme is an armed law enforcement force, the gendarme is an integral part of the Turkish military and military status law enforcement force in its institutional culture. On January 21, 2017, it was written that the 78th article of the Penalty of the Gendarme Agency, Tasks and Powers was changed and that the existing banners in the Central and Country Organizations of Jandarma General Command are kept in the Police Museum. The attempt to be raised to the museum by the banners of the Gendarme regiment is an attack on the spirit of the gendarme, a fighting force. I solemnly swear that I would gladly sacrifice my life for the sake of my country, the republic and the cause of my life, for the sake of my life, for the sake of my life, for the sake of my life, and you take away the banner from his hand. Dear MPs, I am fighting when the commander of the Çakırğüt Brigade is asked for a banner. He said, "Come and get it. I am not giving it to you." He said, "For this reason, you have removed the man, you have appointed him on a passive mission, and then you have retired." Return their banners to the regiments. After 2017, after this regulation came out, I saw some pictures of the Gendarme regiment, and there's a banner there. I asked, and I said, "The banner had been raised?" They said, "We put yellow ribbons around the flag and use them." That's not stupid. He must be given back to the gendarme immediately, where he is a martyr and a veteran for his sake. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear MPs, when the word opens from the VA, I'd like to tell you about Lieutenant Ahmet Yölmez, a gendarme's lieutenant, who was shot in the jaws in the trenches in Cizre. I also learned about him in the book "We Were Shot in the Trenches" by a veteran lieutenant named Bahattin Chosen. I'd like to read this chapter to you: In an operation, Ahmet starts searching and scanning the building they've cleared from the terrorists. They keep searching all the way to the last floor, the building's clean. In front of the window of the building, they fill the wheat bags with sand, locate their posts, and secure the environment. Ahmet's upstairs, he goes down to the lower floors, checks out the PSH elements there, and then he goes back up again in ten minutes. The window in the apartment shaft is only shielded. An expert sergeant using thermal weapons binoculars has detected heat sources in the opposite buildings. Ahmad takes the gun with thermal binoculars and wants to check the heat source. The fire starts to come out of nowhere. When Ahmet saw that the sergeant was wounded by his hand, he threw himself on the ground, feeling a warmth from his throat. When he puts his hand down his throat, he notices blood. The expert is in shock when he sees that Ahmad was shot. He pressed on Ahmet's back and did not lift him from the ground. Ahmet describes the moment when an expert sergeant next to me was pressing on my back because he thought there was going to be a fire, and because he was in shock. Don't push it. I'm yelling, I can't make a sound. I get angry because they don't hear me. The people next to me are shouting, sir, say the word because you're a martyr. The last time I started punching people who were holding me down, I was choking, screaming, but no one could hear me. Turns out the bullet entered my jaw, slashed my jaw and cut off my tongue. That's why I'm silent. I continued to punch those who were next to me, and I point out, but I don't understand, and I keep getting blood in my throat, and I'm getting short of breath, and I'm about to drown myself, and they're going to kill the living person by force, and I said, "What am I going to do?" And I started to think, "I'm going to die." And I remembered something, and I took my cell phone out of my pocket, and I wrote to the text part of the phone, "I'm fine, pick me up, I'm filling my throat with blood, I'm drowning." I showed the message to the person next to me, and they finally picked me up, and they got me out of the building injured. I never blacked out and was transferred to Şırnak State Hospital. Dear lawmakers, Ahmet is here, feeding on a tornado that was hung in his stomach for a month and a half. Two years after the incident, Ahmed still had no surgeries, no knee, teeth, and facial aesthetics. When he went to the examination, they gave him a day after six months, and they asked Ahmet to pay for the examination. These kids are our kids...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0012par0156	I mean, does that even exist?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0013par0157	That's not true.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0014par0158	It could be slander.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0015par0159	Look, guys, I mentioned a captain here last year, and one of you, Salami Altinok, is not true." he said. Three weeks after I gave the speech, he went back on duty. It's not right for him." Don't say that. It's true.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0013par0160	There's no point in shaking your finger! That's not true. Don't shake your finger!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0015par0161	It's true.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0016par0162	That's not true.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0015par0163	Yeah, let's go, let's go. Dear MPs, Ceren Özdemir, who was killed outside his home in the Army province, has watched our daughter for miles. He's never met a cop to talk him out of it. But preventive law, deterrent, visibleness is essential. If you're gonna talk him out of it, you're gonna be visible.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0016par0165	Don't involve our martyrs and veterans in politics.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0015par0166	The Security Directorate is outnumbered in implementing preventive law enforcement services. If some areas in police jurisdiction are transferred to the gendarmes today, preventive law enforcement services will be strengthened. Dear MPs, the General Staff of the Gendarme General General usually has a very important work that has been overlooked. The head of General Intelligence of the Gendarme Command has launched an important work on the process of getting PKK terrorists off the mountain and into the community through persuasion, and it is a success, and I congratulate you. Police Headquarters has launched a similar study. At this point, I suggest to the Ministry of Interior that the Security Directorate's persuasion is not for the PKK, but for the selefit organisations and members of the Ankara. That way, we'll save resources. Dear lawmakers, along with the Turkish army, are fighting terrorism against our country's integrity, the gendarmes, police, rangers, Coast Guard and MIT. In recent years, however, we are dealing with strategic immigration engineering that poses a greater threat to our country than terrorism. Turkey took millions of migrations between 2011 and 19 and became the largest foreign population in the world. According to Erdogan, Turkey has 3,650,000 Syrian citizens and 350,000 Syrian Kurds, meaning 4 million people. Vice President Fuat Oktay says there are 62,578 at the temporary shelters, 3 million 622,404 registered Syrians outside; 3 million 684,982 Syrians. Other than that, we're asking, who else is there? The information, based on study, suggests that there are 1.5 million non-registered Syrians in Turkey. İbrahim Kala also announced that we are looking at 3 million Syrians in Syria, except for those in Turkey. That's about $8 million. We spend $300 a month on every Syrian, if we calculate over $30 billion,285 million, 573 U.S. dollars that the Minister of Health made on December 5, 2017. The result is that we spend, as you say, not $40 billion, but $58 billion for the Syrians; yes, $58 billion for the government. Moreover, it does not include the money spent on 3 million Syrians in Syria. We are experiencing the most severe economic crisis in the history of the Republic, as the 1999 earthquake triggered the 2001 crisis, and today's spending has triggered the crisis. Dear lawmakers, for our economic or national safety, the situation is no longer mobile. The longer he stays here, the harder the return, the higher the price. As a matter of fact, the Syrians have given us this land in the Church, and the clergy, and you will go, and we will remain one. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism website is 1/100. Plans for the next settlement of the 2,000-scale church -- you can find them on the Internet site, and I found them there -- are based on the calculation that the Syrians will stay in the church; they have not only planned to stay, but where they will work in the future, in what sectors.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0017par0171	What a great government we are!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0015par0172	In Hatay, a Syrian woman teacher tells her students: "We will stay in the Arab land until the mouth of a smile, and the Turks will leave. " This Hatay is spoken in this place.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0018par0173	Where is it spoken?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0015par0174	Dear lawmakers, we protect the Syrians who fled from the regime. They can't explain what happened with the sentence. The mercy that leads to neglect is treason, says Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Then -- if you show a lot of mercy -- we ask you, were you protecting the killers who were stabbed in the back in front of his house and then slaughtered Necati Bağcıcı, who was stabbed in the throat with a Rambo knife? Or were the killers in Istanbul really in need of protection when they broke their ribs and stabbed 16-year-old Ismail Bayar (16-year-old) in the heart because he laughed at them in broad daylight?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0019par0175	There may be wrong people among them.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0015par0176	The process Turkey faces is strategic immigration engineering. This is a big project. General Wesley Clark, who commanded NATO's European Union troops between 1997 and 2000, writes in his book "Wondering Modern Wars" - Iraq, Terrorism and the American Empire: "When I returned to the Pentagon in November 2001, I had the opportunity to chat with a high-ranking staff officer. Yes, we were still tracking an operation against Iraq, but there was more to it than that. This was discussed as part of a five-year plan, and it was a total of seven countries. Iraq would start with Syria, Lebanon, Libya, Iran, Somalia and Sudan. Iraq is broken, Sudan is split, Libya is in civil war, in the process of disintegration, Iran is nervous; Iran is next after Iraq and Syria to place a Kurdistan in the Middle East. Attempts to launch a civil war in Turkey have always failed; they could not create a Turkish-Kurdish conflict; they could not produce Alevi-Sunni; they could not produce secular-antilation because we are a nation. But it's very easy to drag Turkey into an internal conflict through a sociology from the outside, through millions of Syrian Syrian states that have been formulated within the Syrian nation. Dear friends, not much, but 20 years later, in Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep, Kilis and Hatay, the population advantage will be on Syrian refugees and their children. If you give them citizenship by this rule of population, we want to be connected to Syria tomorrow, so let's have plebisite. What do you say? Dear lawmakers say the Mexican border should be granted citizenship to the Syrians by canceling 197 projects from the Pentagon's budget so as not to take Hispanics to the United States. To support the PKK-PYD-curdistan project, let the Syrian stay in Turkey. Israel, which supports him, wants the Syrians to stay in Turkey. The European Union shall remain in Turkey. It lobbys and spends money. ISIS and El Nusra are doing the same thing. Dear AKP MPs, look, we disagreed about the Annan Plan, you supported the Annan Plan, we opposed it, and now you feel the same way as we do. Therefore, we have made a good move in the Eastern Mediterranean, supporting four parties, the Eastern Mediterranean policy. We also disagreed on the matter, and we feel the same way today, and you feel the same way we do. We were different about negotiations with the PKK, and now you feel the same way as we do. We feel differently about the Syrians today, and one day you will think as we do; that day will be too late. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] We must all support Turkey and Syria to throw a large imperialist project, originally built in the Middle East, into the garbage of history, back home to the Syrians. If the Syrian, asylum seekers go voluntarily, they stay if they don't want to go. A statement in the form of Turkey is unacceptable because Turkey's security interests and the territorial integrity of Turkey are above all debates. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0020par0184	Mersin MP Behic Çelik. Behic Bey, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0021par0186	Let the Minister hear: we share our bread, we don't share our homeland with the Syrians; no one will forgive us.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0022par0187	Come on, talk from here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0021par0188	No one's sorry, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0023par0189	On the one hand, word for word, racist rhetoric, what the hell is that?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0024par0191	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0025par0192	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0023par0193	There can be no Arab, Kurdish, Turkish, Turkmen.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0024par0194	What's that got to do with it? What are you talking about, that's what you understand!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0023par0195	On the one hand, word for word can't be racist.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0024par0196	Is that what you understand? Of all the things you've said.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0026par0197	Guys, let's stop with the pirate notices, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0027par0198	I'm going to talk about the Ministry of Interior, the Police General Directorate, the Coast Guard Command, the Disaster and Emergency Management -- the President of AFAD.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0024par0199	Does a racist share bread?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0028par0200	That's racism. He can't be racist under the influence of words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0024par0201	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0029par0202	Mr. Dervisoglu, your friend is on the stand.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0030par0203	I also curse Chinese tyranny in East Turkistan. It is our national obligation to uphold the law of the Uygurs.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0024par0204	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0029par0205	You're sabotaging Mr. Çelik's speech.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0030par0206	Dear friends, the Ministry of Internal Affairs keeps track of the country's ownership of the property by the hands of its managers on behalf of the state, reviews, murakabe and reviews. It is the starting point of this administration when the centre's sovereignty is met in the country as well. Thus, it is essential that the governors appointed by the centre govern their provinces based on the extent of their authority. This style of governance has been implemented since 1864 in our administration history. The county system has marked Turkish administration history, and it is still under way. Yes, the monitoring of the affairs of administrative and financial authorities in central administration was carried out by the Ministry of Interior in accordance with the principle of integrity of governance, but commitment was committed to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism; I am confident that soon it will be taken a step back, because a municipal-responsibility relationship with the Ministry of Interior, where audits and investigations are in the Ministry of Interior cannot be sustained. Dear friends, the reason for a state is justice, and the foundation of justice is law and order. It's essential to ensure the safety of the people in life, property, and rape. The state does this by hand of the police, the gendarmes, and the Coast Guard. Peace, safety, and health are roughly the primary role of our internal security services. It employs enough personnel to provide services. Today, with the total number of 522,000, the Police, the Police, and the Coast Guard are the guarantee of our sovereignty, the security of our citizens, which is provided by our agencies. Dear friends, the 1st Article of the Law of the Security Agency is the responsibility of the National Deputy of Public Security and Public Security. We need to see if Mr. Secretary is carrying out that responsibility properly. He always seems to have done the theme study, like Red whistle, GAMER, Three Places, We're Anatolian, MUHATAP, PERDIS, KADES, SLEEPMA. These are good ideas at first. I wonder how much of this has been reflected in society over the last year. For example, how successful is KADES? Women's murders, any less violence towards women? According to the data, in 14 times more than 17 years, the murder has tripled and the drug addiction has increased by 7.5 times, sexual harassment 4.5 times, prostitution has increased by 8 times. These figures show that public order is seriously under threat. As soon as the AKP comes to power, Dr. Necip Hablemitoglu is a two-month government, while the perpetrators are still unknown. The Minister needs to find out. For example, the perpetrators need to be exposed to the waste of a high-ranking police executive. There's a Behcet Oktay murder, and we need to find out who did it. In the process of resolving, the destruction of your predecessor at the Ministry must reveal the PKK connections at that time. We can say: The results of the removal and the struggle against Engagement have been achieved, but it must not be forgotten that there have been thousands of victims because of relationships that have somehow been connected with ▪ but are not in reality. Although some friends have been acquitted and applied for the Ministry, they have not been reinstated. This creates a great injustice, one of the most pressing issues facing immediate solutions. Another evil organization is ISIS and its derivatives. It is necessary to be alert to these proximal organisations, to purge the one who lifts his head. Dear friends, it is known that police are facing psychological problems as a natural result of heavy and exhausting working conditions. It has been learned that there has been considerable distance within the agency, but continuing police suicides is a matter of need to be explained. A scientific solution to this human matter is necessary. Dear lawmakers, national security, foreign policy, national economy, social policy, and justice are always like interconnected apartments. Each one is the complement of the other; especially when foreign policy is discussed with security. That's the problem with Syria. Foreign policy errors in 2011 have brought our country almost to the brink. The River Shield, the olive branch, the Peace Fountain, was a success -- one has not been completed yet -- but these righteous actions do not eliminate the fact that our Syrian policy is wrong. This mistake has cost us $40 billion in immigrants. Mr. President says, finally, the Syrians will remain in the country. It's not something to digest so easily. The Syrian issue is a matter of national security, and the Syrians will surely be sent to their country. The instability created by the Syrians has covered the land like a black cloud. My hometown, Mersin, is one of the most uncomfortable provinces. The police are unable to intervene enough against them, and the security in the major cities is breaking down. Dear friends, from Caucasus, the Middle East, and Asia, there have been executions against the businessmen who reside in our homes, against the people. Did the perpetrators of these executions get caught? Besides, it was obvious who committed the murder of the journalist Cemal Spooner. They left Turkey with a free hand. This painting is the moment when we are disgraced in the world. In the recent past, the Interior Ministry's attitude in attacks against state elders has not been elegant at all. Dear lawmakers, the Committee for Protection of Journalists issued a report last week. According to this report, Turkey is the second from three of the worst countries; 47 journalists are being arrested. The journalists are wanted to be intimidated by lawsuits. The Ministry of Interior is also under great responsibility for the full settlement of democracy in our country. Dear friends, as for the Coast Guard Command, the Coast Guard Command, which has served in a section of the blue Homeland in its designated area of 332,000 square kilometers, performs efficient performances along with its recently developed communication system and its completed ships and boats. Yes, as a result, Turkey is a national and unitary state as an institution, and we must have this state structure. We need to prevent Turkey from being sacrificed to an operation that is perceived as a refugee migration. I'd like to congratulate the AFAD agency on this occasion. However, disaster management requires an integrated study. It also needs to strengthen its cooperation with exercises, law enforcement and labor units.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0031par0220	Mr. Steel, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0030par0221	Mr. President, thank you. I'd also like to bring to your attention how our Ministry of Internal Affairs has established assembly centers in major cities. I wish the Ministry of the Interior, a martyr's quarry, had a good budget. I especially wish that the police, the Coast Guard, and the AFAD would have a good budget, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0032par0225	The first word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is Mr. Sefer Aycan. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0033par0228	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Party for Action on the budget of the Ministry of Health. I salute you all. The first duty of the Ministry of Health of Health in Article 663 concerning the establishment of the Ministry of Health is to protect, improve the health of the people, reduce the risk of disease. So the Ministry of Health's main job is to protect health, improve health, and reduce the risk of disease. So I'm going to take a look at this. I'll see what he's done about it, what he's trying to do. That's why I don't care about hospitals. Because hospitals are places that cure disease, places that cover failure. Since there are units that treat the disease that happens when you can't maintain health, the situation in hospitals is important to me in the second degree. And I don't care about health tourism. I don't give a damn about the planted hair, the raised noses, the plastic surgery. It concerns me how much we protect the public's health, how much we reduce the risk of disease, how much we reduce the burden of illness. Let's see what we've done for him. Where do we do this stuff? Which units do we do this with? Health care, which we call health services, is divided into 2 ▪ by the current system of health in Turkey, which took place in 2004. I don't think he should have left. Two different units have emerged as family clinics and community health centres. They are in charge of maintaining and improving health, tasked with reducing the burden of illness. But something's happened lately. The duties of community health centers have been transferred to the district health departments and community health centers have been eliminated, so there is no public health services available. It's not the same. Community health centres are a place of public health care, the district health department is an administrative unit. On the contrary, we should have increased the number of public health centres. I offered him the law on this. I think that every 100,000 population -- even more -- needs community health centers, and we need active work from community health centers. We can't reduce the disease, we can't reduce the burden. You don't get anywhere by treating the sick, treating the sick. All capital, all capitalist systems, the exploitation system, are based on disease. What is money all over the world is about sickness, let's see more sick, let's consume more. These are consumption expenses, they're of no use. If we want to do something about the future, we invest in health care; health protection is an investment in the future, an investment service. Now, a second unit on health care is family medicine in Turkey. We also have some problems in family medicine, and starting in 2004, we've moved on to the family medicine system, but we also have problems especially in family medicine. It has been fully organized, but there have been setbacks, especially in family medicine services in rural areas, especially in treatment services. To do that, we need to increase the number of family medicines because 30 percent of our population still lives in villages, we have a problem bringing treatment services here, someone who is ill in the village needs to go to the town centre, which is a serious problem. To eliminate this, we need to employ more family physicians, make changes in mission descriptions and practices. One of the duties of family physicians is to provide early childhood diagnostic services under the care of a person. Yes, we also have early diagnostics, and we're good at screening programs for children, but we fail at general screening programs for society, preventing disease, and early detection. We're running a cancer scan. As the Health Department, we have three cancer screening programs, but we have problems reaching the target population; we need to increase it, reach the entire endangered society. Other than that, we need to be careful to strengthen the system in diagnosis or early diagnosis of chronic diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, aterosclerotic heart disease, pulmonary disease, or lung disease. Of course, the first step is that we also lack patient care, and the patients still go directly to the hospital, which means the delivery system doesn't work. Which, of course, is a problem for the healthcare system socially, but it's much more important than that, we need to figure out how the emergency doors are piling up. In the first step, especially because we have trouble taking care of patients on the off-hours, the intensity is in emergency, and the most corrosive, most problematic areas are urgent. We need to do the intervention to relieve the burden of those emergencies. In this regard, we also need to talk about 112. Yes, we also have an organization in the 112 Emergency Services, and this organization has taken a long time, but especially in rural areas, there's a problem because there are situations where a patient's minutes are really important. We need to get the emergency to the hospital before ten minutes, but when an ambulance is called in the countryside, in the village area, and sometimes taking this patient to the emergency room can find the hours, and then the intervention is delayed. Here, our proposal is to increase the number of 112 stations. We need to open more 112 stations, make it more efficient, get there sooner. We're doing a good job with the vaccine, but there's been a problem with the vaccine rejection lately. We need to deal with the vaccine rejection problem in particular, because the vaccination that's coming up to 50,000 has been rejected, and the 2,500 cases of measles that have emerged here are very serious. The Ministry of Health shouldn't allow that either, because vaccines are already registered to the Ministry of Health.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0034par0236	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0033par0237	Finally, I'd like to talk to you about the medical staff. Health care is a team business. He's got non-medicine personnel, and these are the complements of the team. There are a lot of problems here. We need to employ more non-medicine personnel. 620,000 medical personnel are waiting for the appointment, we have enough power, we need to increase their employment. Some of them are contractual, so you have to remove the contract and put them all on the staff. In particular, there are complications in the implementation of health professions in Law 1219. We need to redo the job descriptions, the job descriptions. Especially now, it's time to stop the certified work, because we have enough personnel in every area. Instead of serving with certified personnel, I think you should serve directly with people who have been trained. Thank you for listening, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0035par0241	Mr. Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0036par0244	Mr. President, high-value lawmakers are seeing significant improvements in healthcare and basic health indicators. The fact that we're still behind developed countries must not be forgotten. The subcontractors were recruited to perform some services within the hospital, but they were excluded from what we call the IT personnel in hospitals. The assistant service class staff are waiting to receive the title of officer or the title of data preparation and control management based on their work. The well-trained nurses, medical secretaries, paramedics, anesthesiologists, physical therapists, odyometrists, perfusionists, ATTs, and many other major graduates can't find work. Health care needs to be boosted in order to improve the standard and quality of health care. While the patient's satisfaction has increased, studies must also be made to increase the satisfaction of health workers. Therefore, it is vital in our hospitals to remove violence from the country's agenda, to take precautions before violence occurs, to ensure that health workers work in a safe environment. Our proposal: our ministry should be appointed as head of the health department for prevention of violence. It is the effective implementation of all legal, administrative and social measures to prevent acts of violence against health workers. Members of parliament, rare diseases that affect 8 per cent of our population, which are estimated to be 7,000 species, cause major casualties to the sick and sick relatives, and bring an estimated $2 billion-a-year budget burden to the country's economy. It is our recommendation that our patients who are suffering from rare diseases be able to perform diagnostics, treatment methods and access to the drug, to quickly conclude their transactions, to determine and develop national policies. Therefore, the establishment of the national rare disease office of Turkey, which will be ruled by an independent structure, which will work in cooperation and harmony with other ministries under the control of our presidency or Ministry. At the same time, this office must play an important role in achieving a sector capable of producing biotechnology and bio-similar drugs that will satisfy the needs of cancer patients and patients with rare diseases in our country. In the 11th Development Plan of the presidency, medicine, the medical equipment sector is the primary sector for our country. The development of a holistic drug and medical device strategy, which prioritizes the production of drugs, vaccines, serums and medical devices in the country, which creates the RD climate for this, is crucial for the development of a holistic drug and medical device strategy, which is supported by public procurement policies and production incentives. Precious lawmakers, in the transformation programme of Gaziantep industry, the foundation for the implementation of the Gaziantep health valley with a project jointly run by the head of our Ministry's Office for Medical Devices and Medical Services Planning in our new organised industrial region. Pharmaceuticals must be eliminated by the Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices. The increased drug consumption and unconscious use of antibiotics should also be noted in recent years. There have been significant improvements in health care, including access to health care, protective health care, institutional organisation, combating infectious diseases, and health care, especially in patient rights. However, the distribution of physical infrastructure and health personnel between the city, the countryside and the regions remains unsettled. According to the staff distribution table, there are major shortages in some majors in my constituency, Gaziantep. For example, we have 4 hospitals in the city centre, 21 physicians, even though there are 58 staffs in obstetrics and obstetrics. In our province, there are 23 physicians, although there are 50 staffs of children's health and disease specialists today that we are trying to reduce the rate of infant mortality immediately. Despite six of our staff of physicians in neonatalology, there are no physicians, even though we have two staffs in perinatology. Therefore, 69 experts are needed in various branches, particularly the doctor of children's health and disease. Also in Gaziantep, also in Gaziantep, where the plots have been assigned, the completed Nurdağı, Carn, Yavuzeli, and Karkamiş are to be started in one place each, two in Islam, three in Nizip, five in Şehtkamil, five in Şahinbey, and 12 in Şahinbey. The construction and completion of the 300-bed State Hospital, which was planned outside the city hospital and is absolutely needed for its presence in the centre of the city, must be started and completed immediately. Again, an investment in the 400-beded Nizip State Hospital must be made available immediately. Dear lawmakers, even though the standard number of experts is less than 50 per cent, in addition to our city of Metropolis, which has a population of over 2 million, it would be more obvious to us that the emergency patients from the surrounding provinces and Cerablus, the emergency patients from El Bab. Given the intensity of the Syrian residents, the urgent completion of the medical staff would not be necessary but would be necessary. Non-medicine healthcare workers must be updated according to the conditions of the day, with the amount of rotating capital that has not been increased for years in favour of the employee. All health workers are staring at our coven to raise their additional indicators to 3,600. A helping hand must now be given to SUT (SUT), who has needed to organize for ten years. As I complete my remarks, the Ministry of Health wishes that its budget be a blessing to the great Turkish nation, and I salute our Veteran Assembly, which is the name of Gaziantep.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0037par0254	Mr. Hayati Arkaz, Istanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0038par0257	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Health in 2020 and on the budget of subsidiaries. I hereby salute the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation. Health care is the right of all individuals and must reach the most remote corners. The best thing to do for health is for humanity. Success in health is the highest value that the government has given to its people, and that's the need to be a social state. Health care for all individuals under the age of 18 is provided by the state. With 160,000 doctors, 1 million employees, we have a large medical army. Our number of beds has reached 250,000, and in recent years there have been huge investments in health in our country. In 2019, nearly 600,000 patients from abroad came to our homeland and were treated. It's a great honor and honor for us. Our country has now become a health centre for Asia and Africa, especially Europe. According to the World Health Tourism Council, Turkey has been ranked third in the world. Congressmans, the development of health tourism requires more publicity. But we live in an important geography, we live in a geography where we are surrounded by fire. Despite all the negativity, despite all the obstacles, we still did great things, even though the traitors inside and outside prevented us. Our government, our state, and the tourism authorities have been given great tasks. We need to increase flights in the country and abroad immediately. In 2023, we need to see 2 million foreign patients in our home, and 20 billion turnovers are being targeted. When we ask Europeans why they came to Turkey for treatment, they say it's more accurate to identify, better to treat, and better to serve. In particular, we've made great progress in the surgical arts. All major surgeries are now closed in our homeland, in our country. The Da Vinci Robotic Surgery System is closed for heart surgery, brain surgery, cancer surgery. We've grown to a very important extent in transplantation. For example, it used to be harvested, kept cold, then transported; now the organ is taken alive, put into a hot device, then transferred to the patient. This is the first time this has been done in our home and has been done in over a year. These surgeries are not performed only in Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir. These operations are performed in important parts of our home from Edirne, Erzurum, from Erzurum, from Diyarbakır. In medicine, we must capture technology. There's something in medicine in 2019 that's going on so fast that our doctors don't like the device from a year ago. The way they view MRI, BT, angiyo, Doppler, ultrasound, it regenerates every year. Not all health care agencies, including public and private, charge emergency patients. With general health insurance, no exceptions, all citizens can find their medicine at any pharmacy they want. As of 2018, the inoculation is close to 100 percent at home. We've come to a situation where the infectious diseases that used to be a pain in our ass are now gone, gone. One of the most basic tasks of family medicine is the tracking system, and the mortality rate in the newborn has been reduced to less than seven percent in a thousand. However, we are largely dependent on outside medical supplies and medicine. AsELSAN's doing an MRI; I hope he's okay. Our Ministrys of Health, Treasury and Finance, Industry and Technology, medical equipment institutions, universities and industrial and trade rooms need to be transformed into dynamic elements of this campaign, and even medical colleges, as in developed countries, need to be established. We also need to roll up our sleeves for organized industrial areas, which are for medical equipment, and their numbers need to increase. We have to be local and national in medical supplies and medicine. The only way to get rid of the outside dependency in medicine is to speed up the work of the government, the university, the private corporations. There are 74 production centers in 69 companies in our dorm today. We're making 6.328 pens. Where there's no trust, no security, no peace, no health care, no investment. Today, east of our homeland, west, south, north, there is peace, security. Health care is good wherever terror ends. I just want to say, here I am to congratulate Mr. Home Secretary and the Minister of Health on their great work, and on behalf of my people, thank you. We, the National Movement Party, stand by any policy in favour of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0039par0269	Mr. Arkaz, finish your words, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0038par0271	Thank you. Take me to the Turkish physicians of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Pasha. I congratulate all of our medical staff who have made their point and worked for it; I salute the General Assembly with the hope of a healthy, happy, good day.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0039par0274	Adana MP, Mr. Ayşe Sibel Ersoy will speak. Please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0040par0277	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. On this occasion, I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us on the screens. In a global sense, as we all know, climate change is the greatest danger. We know this problem that threatens our lives, we even live, but do we show the necessary sensitivity? I'm going to try to address climate change and problems that will depend on it today. The climate is changing in unprecedented ways in human history; this change is so fast that if we do not take precautions, future generations will submit to difficult climate conditions. We created this problem with coal, oil, natural gas, greenhouse gases that we've released into the atmosphere, but we can overcome it if we want to, as long as we're conscious and do what we need to do before the last glacier melts. When we are referred to as global climate change, we are first reminded of unexpected weather events, especially hot air waves. We're talking global change; there's no escape from it, and there's no escape from Turkey. So, what problems can these hot weather waves, caused by global climate change, cause for our country? Studies say the temperature increases will occur within the next half century; Turkey, which is already affected, will suffer more than this change. So, what's it gonna be? For Turkey, it means decline in agriculture, industry, tourism, economics and many other sectors. It's the financial size of the job, of course, but the changing soil structure, the changing ecosystem, the disappearing species, it's going to be even more painful for Turkey. Turkey, which has the proper land for agriculture, already has basins beginning to dry. Besides, the problems we're about to face with water are already sticking his head out the door. We'll have fewer rains, snowless winters, spoiled ecosystems that will bring us diseases. Moreover, people will start fighting for these diminishing resources, perhaps even the civil war. All of this, along with a severe decline in our country's water supply, drought and desertification, agricultural loss of efficiency, increased in the number and impact of forest fires, and biological wildlife is lost on every continent, on every ocean, on land and under water, and its fate is in the hands of only one species:. The long-standing bond of species, their addiction to each other, is sustained by a series of major complex systems. Large natural areas are being renovated to agriculture, urban growth, mining and infrastructure. It's fragile to invading species suffering from the effects of pollution. The rate of extinction of species is far beyond the natural cycle, so we've already started a list of endangered species. Consider how our vital riches are affected. Why is it important that our seas produce almost half of the oxygen that we breathe, which provides food and livelihood for more than a billion people? The seas are home to a very rich wildlife from microscopic plankton to the largest mammal blue whale ever. Seas, water cycles and climate systems are a key source of our planet's biological diversity and ecosystem services. The seas contribute to sustainable development, sustainable ocean-based economies, the eradication of poverty, food safety, nutrition, livelihoods, sea trade and transport. Our seas are facing a serious threat today. The way we use the seas and coastal areas is destroying not only the diversity but also the ability to meet the basic needs of millions of these natural resources. Unconscious hunting, pollution, and climate change have a negative effect on this process. It's time we reconsidered our food system. We all need nutritious food to survive. High temperatures because of climate change, extreme weather events, such as droughts and floods, are damaging food production, and the damage to production is affecting prices. Our agricultural practices and consumption styles should be able to maintain the sustainability of Turkey's natural values; it should not exceed the capacity of self-renewing resources such as soil, water and energy, but also increase farmers' profitability and prosperity. Climate change is not the problem of the future, and climate change does not result in irreversible consequences for humans and other creatures, depending on the average surface temperature rise below 1.5 degrees. About 80 percent of the world's primary energy production is covered by what we call fossil fuels, oil, coal and gas. With fossil fuels being used, greenhouse gases produce climate change. The forests touch our lives every day since the first people used them for shelter, food, water, and burning. Today, 300 million people still live in forests and over a million people depend on forests to live in. A third of our planet's land area is covered by forests, and more than half of the land species live in forests. There are many species of forest on our planet, and they all have a delicate balance. Forests that are not just a tree community, with trees, with other plants, animals, mushrooms, soil, water, climate, are an ecosystem of living and lifeless beings. In addition, the forests of our planet's lungs absorb carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from the atmosphere, causing climate change. The continuation of life depends on the existence of adequate and good quality water. If all the water on Earth were put in a five-liter bottle, the amount of fresh water we humans could reach is only the size of a tablespoon. In other words, the amount of accessible fresh water is less than 1 percent of the world's total water supply. The presence of sufficient quantity and quality water is as basic a condition of food security as there are fresh water ecosystems and sustainable development as well as the future of mankind. That's why it's so important to protect the fresh water supply. We share our planet with millions of species of plants and animals that enrich our lives in many ways. This life provides us with safe natural conditions, such as water, fresh air, fertile land, and a stable climate. But our planet's wildlife is in crisis. Since the 1970s, species have been dying rapidly, worryingly. Many scientists believe that increasing consumption and the growing demand for energy, land and water have led us to a new geological age. We need to reverse the tendency to decrease biological diversity and create a future where wildlife and human beings grow together. I wish you the best of our budget for 2020, which is in session, and I offer you my regards.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0041par0294	Mr. Sermet Atay of Gaziantep, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0042par0296	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to address the budgets of the Security General Directorate and General Command of the Central Management Budget of 2020 and the Central Management Law of 2018. I hereby salute the mighty Turkish nation, the Grand Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the government's hands touching citizens. The Ministry of Interior has carried out several important tasks with 598,109 personnel, 556,278 (556,278) in 16 service units. All measures necessary to protect and keep our country out of chaos are being taken by the Ministry of the Interior in our Geography, where the battle of power is taking place. In this direction, extensive activities for the safety of our land and sea borders, city security and order and rural security continue with continuous and increasing activity. It is also reflected in services and projects provided by the Ministry of Interior with a new understanding of governance. GAMER, who can monitor emergency situations in all Turkey from one centre, has been presented by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to create traffic awareness for the Red Düduk, pedestrian safety, the first pedestrian's services, such as IZEDIS, the Open Door, which is established to monitor the performance and efficiency of personnel, and the Open Door, which allows our citizens to monitor investments on a current basis. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are among the most widely felt ministries in the public administration, one of the largest ministries in the area of coverage. In 2019, the new recruitment of new personnel has reached 305,328, 90 per cent of which are university graduates. A significant decrease has occurred in crimes committed against his assets, along with 21,310 markets and neighborhood watchmen recently acquired to the police force. 18,482 security guards have been retired on very good terms, hiring 25,118 new security guards, reducing their average age from 42 to 32. Mr. President, our professionalization rate in the General Command of the Gendarme is rising rapidly. This is a joyous development. In 2019, the General Staff of the General Staff increased the professional staff population by 16 per cent compared to the previous year, making 82 per cent of the staff professional. In 2020, the rate of professionalisation is intended to be 83 per cent. Stable and strategic steps are being taken in the fight against terrorism. Tactical and preventive activities have been accelerated in the fight against terrorism by the political consensus provided by the Cumhur Alliance. Given these activities, it is evident that a full-scale struggle with terrorism has been waged by continuing to strategize a non-interrupted operation from the logic of the post-action operation. There's been a total struggle that won't end until the terror's over. In pursuit of terrorists in the mountains, a sense of service has been created in the city, opening sports halls and schools, producing our own weapons and drones and, above all, making the state more visible to all elements of terrorism, and thus fighting both terrorism and terrorism. After July 15th, our state will stand firm against those who have been looking for opportunities to weaken our capacity to fight terrorism, giving terrorist organisations the most effective answers in the history of the Republic of Turkey, giving them and giving them all kinds of strong opposition with all the ministries, subsidiaries and security units. In this struggle, the method of eliminating terrorism has been developed, not in defense, but in constant attacks, and non-interruption operations have not allowed terrorist organisations to gain space. As a result of this struggle, the PKK/PYD terrorist organisation has experienced its weakest period since the 1990s. In particular, the concept of destruction of terror committed after the trenches, barricades, and pits has revealed the success process, which has seen concrete consequences for our state and our nation, in all areas where terrorist organizations operate. Mr. President, valued MPs, the PKK's terrorist organization's capacity for action has been cut in half in the last two years. In the last three years, the domestic terrorist population has decreased by 79 percent. With an uncompromising and decisive fight against terrorism, new participation in the terrorist organization has almost reached its end. The efforts of the PKK and the TK terrorist organisation to promote the actions of their political extensions have been ineffective, mobilising, providing public support, and political extensions have failed, and organisations have failed to provide support. Mr. President, in the east and southeast, 24 mayors have been replaced by mayors under the 45th and 46th Articles of the City Code of the Constitution, in view of the judicial and administrative judicial proceedings that continue on their rights, such as membership in an armed terrorist organization, propaganda of a terrorist organization. A total of 35 investigations and 17 prosecutions continue as part of terrorist crimes against the suspended mayors. In society, there have been some misperception operations, and municipalities have been wrongly informed about dismissal, trustee appointment. In this context, the distinction must be made in terms of the crimes he committed after he was elected mayor's license and the trustee appointments must be dealt with in this framework. The selection and selection license is organised by the Mahalli Administrations and Parliamentary Election Laws, and there is no legal obstacle in becoming mayor of individuals who have not been given a final court decision during the election. However, the mandate to be relieved of duty after being elected president is a legal authority issued to the Ministry of Internal Affairs under Article 127 and municipal Law 47, in accordance with Article 47 of the Constitution's Law on a new crime, and the decision to dismiss those who have been convicted during this suspension will be dropped from mayoral office, and that those who have been investigated will be dismissed as a temporary measure of investigation, only to prevent the continuity of the crime and to ensure that the investigation can be made healthy. In addition to this ongoing struggle with the PKK and the PYD, there is a decisive fight against the PKK. No matter who this battle goes to, it must be carried on until the end and the root of the battle must be eradicated. Extremist terrorist organizations such as the DHKP-C, MLKP, have been wiped out of the countryside. Operational operations and action planning and organisational work in cities have been largely blocked. In the face of operations, the organisation experienced serious staff losses, organisational narrowing and decline. The DEA has not been able to perform a single action since 31 December 2016, as a result of operations and measures taken. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, drug use and trade are a major problem for our country. Europe co-operates heavily with our country in order to prevent opium and derivatives from entering their countries from being transported east to west, but does not show the same cooperation at the point of stopping the production of synthetic drugs produced in its geography and preventing it from being transferred to our country. Anti-drug operations -- an important part of terrorism and its largest source of funding -- continue simultaneously with terrorist operations. One very important thing to state here is that only 17 percent of the heroin caught worldwide in the world in 2019, according to drug reports, has been seized by law enforcement units in 2017. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the General Command of the Gendarme Command, have been declared as a force force, which has been deposed from being a military commander after the presidential government's system, and some of the laws of harmony in this transition have been enforced by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. However, the problem with the sergeants who make up the largest staff group of our gendarmes has become a bleeding wound for years, has always been averted, and with each passing day there is even greater deadlock. The professionalization of the Turkish Armed Forces and the Gendarmes has made special sergeants the backbone of staff in the Armed Forces and Gendarme General Command. In each operation, our leading hero specialist sergeants have always been sidelined when they're being stripped of their rights. When a right is asked, they are under contract. The National Movement Party, however, does not have a contract for the national defense. We are acting on its motto. Therefore, it is a requirement for morale and motivation to ensure that the staff and job guarantees of our special sergeants, who have played a heroic role in defending our country and our nation. After years of training as an expert sergeant, he deserves to retire, not as a civil servant, but as an expert sergeant. Expert sergeants want to improve their rights, give them a staff instead of contracts, give them 3,600 additional indicators, make sure that there is a difference between the newly employed sergeants and the 20-year sergeants, and that the situation of being pressured to be removed from work at any time for various reasons due to lack of job guarantees. As an armed officer of our Turkish Armed Forces and of our gendarmes, it is our sergeants' right to take advantage of the military houses. If these social facilities are not enough, it is a necessity to build a social facility for specialized sergeants. That's a necessity. The most martyred group of the Turkish Armed Forces has already earned them. For a soldier, morale and motivation are more important than anything else. Our specialist sergeants have successfully carried out their duties abroad and abroad. We hope and hope that the legal arrangement for these heroes will be dealt with at once in the House, and they will have the right to their desire. Specialized gendarmes, a class of petty officers and specialist sergeants, who are the staff of our Gendarme Command, are often mistaken for our special sergeants in the community. Gendarme General Command is no longer receiving an expert carabinieri. Right now, we have only about 17,000 veterans left in the gendarmes' organization. Although the hours of officers and petty officers in the General Command have been counted in the service, this right has been denied from the expert gendarme. This is an inequality and injustice. As the National Movement Party, we have offered the law to address this inequality, and in the coming period, we will follow it. There has been an inequality between police personnel in the same position as the police officers and police officers in the same position as the law enforcement force. Here's the thing: a county police commissioner gets a salary of $9.352, and a police commander who performs the same task gets $12.302. When a police commissioner retires, he gets a pension of $5,250 and a colonel gets $6,882. When we sort out this hierarchy, the second-class police commissioner and the colonel are in the same position. The second-class police commissioner receives about $7,500, while a colonel receives about $10,000. The same differences arise when compared to the second-rate police commissioner's pension. The second-class police commissioner's salary with a pension of around $3,400 is less than the colonel's pension, which is in the same position. Considering that a police officer has a salary of around $6,200, the petty officer who coincides with him in the hierarchy is paid around $8,300. We're looking at almost $2,100 of a difference here. We feel that by making the necessary arrangements, the difference must be resolved. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there is clearly an inequality with salary and equity rights compared to law enforcement personnel who carry out the same task, taking the same responsibility. They're both law enforcement officers working selflessly for our country and our nation. In this sense, the salary and social rights between the two employees must be equal, pay at the same level, and legal arrangements must be made. Mr. Minister, we also see a lot in the field, and our police officer and police are acting on police duty and the Law of Legacy. With the new arrangement, our carabinieri also earned a law enforcement adjective. We think it would be positive if the Law on Police Duty and Equality was changed as... the law of law of law and authority. I'd like to stress that we owe it to our gendarmes, our police department, if we're more secure in our home and in our village, if we're more peaceful in the street, if our goods are as safe as we are in our lives. We have complete confidence in our Homeland Ministry, our Police Department, the Command of the Gendarmes. Our law enforcement forces will carry out their duties and responsibilities in the future, as they do today, by keeping our country and our nation's interests above all else, seeking the satisfaction of the citizen. We will continue to stand by our law enforcement force, which guarantees the safety and peace of our country, and applaud their success. On this occasion, we wish the 2020 budget to be a blessing to our country, to our nation, to our state, to our Ministry of Interior, to our heroic law enforcement forces, to all of our martyrs who have lost their lives for the safety and indivisible integrity of our country and our state, to all of our veterans, to God's mercy, to our veterans, and to those on duty. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0043par0317	This is Mr. Umit Yilmaz speaking directly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0044par0319	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the esteemed MPs on the Coast Guard Command, Immigration Administration General Directorate and AFAD budgets of the Ministry of Interior, and I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, the land of our country is in a region where natural disasters often occur as far as geography is concerned. In addition to major earthquakes in recent years, floods, landslides, tornados, and so on depend on climate change are the greatest indicators of this. Our country in this position has a vital importance to an institution like AFAD. As I said in my speech on the November 12th Düzce earthquake, measures to be taken before facing disasters will be both cheaper and less likely to reduce the loss of lives. Dear MPs, a possible, possible Istanbul earthquake should be assessed in this framework and preparations should be made accordingly. At the beginning of the preparations is the acceleration of urban transformation and the formation of early warning systems. After the earthquake, the first thing that people think about is gathering spaces. The number of gathering sites should be increased, especially in cities where the number of people falling to a square metre, such as Istanbul, and our citizens should be informed of the whereabouts of these areas. In addition to the earthquake, necessary measures should be taken, especially in areas where floods - such as the Black Sea - often occur. By the way, on July 18th, I'd like to thank my fellow citizens for their intense interest in the flood of Akca husband, Friday, and Guzımova and Lakeyaka. The flood, which we experienced on July 18th, revealed the need for immediate rehabilitation of the creek beds and review of earlier settlements to the creek beds. After the flood, it is the right approach to allow new dwellings to be given permission, considering the distance to the creek bed. After the flood, however, it is very thoughtful to allow a concrete plant in the valley in zero positions in Akça al-Aqaq district. People wonder who are behind building a concrete plant and getting licensed so fast that they can't even build a house, let alone build a house by the riverside. Dear lawmakers, the Coast Guard Command has risen to a very important position in recent years as a result of its rising duties and responsibilities. As a result of this growing importance, the first phase of the Commandial Coast Guard Watch Radar System Project is expressed by the Interior Ministry, which will be completed in December 2019 and will be completed at the end of 2021. With the project completed, all of our landwaters can be controlled by radar and camera systems. Social events in our geography have increased regular and irregular migrations that have begun towards our country. Increased migration traffic increases the importance of Coast Guard Command in our three-sided country. As immigrants who view Turkey as a transit country and use the sea route to the Greek islands of the European Union as a transit country, the number of technical equipment and personnel increased by connecting the Coast Guard Command to the Ministry of Interior, there is a serious decline in illegal crossings. The success of the Coast Guard Command is not to be looked upon solely by the responsibility of the Responsibility Agreement signed with the European Union. Every day in our own black waters and international waters, such disasters as the Aylan baby have hurt us as human beings. In international waters, those who lecture the world about the law enforcement, democracy and human rights of European countries, who have not even sunk boats that carry immigrants into their own black waters, have dropped the mask on their faces and revealed their true faces. Dear lawmakers, another institution that belongs to our Ministry of Interior is the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration. The migration, due to the geopolitical position and historical history of our country, is at the top of the major problems we always face at certain times. In early 2011, the conflict in some countries of political movements called "Arab Spring" began in Tunisia and led to an increase in irregular migration. In March 2011, the civil war that started in Syria, our neighbor, led to the massization of the migration our country faced. As a result of our country's mass migration, the International Protection Act was drafted and adopted in April 2013. With the relevant law, the refugee, conditional refugee, secondary protection and temporary protection status have been set, and the temporary protection regulations issued in 2014 have been detailed. With the start of membership talks with the European Union, the Agreement for Reunion with the European Union was signed in December 2013, following Law 6458, in accordance with the acquish. With the signed Reception Agreement, the countries of the European Union have taken some form of protection by providing the extradition of immigrants using our country for transit. As a result of the agreements and laws adopted, the number of immigrants registered in our country reached 5,44,000. As of November 2019, 3 million and 680,000 of these immigrants are Syrian citizens who have been granted temporary protection, and 79,820 of these immigrants have been granted Turkish citizenship. Our historical responsibility and characteristics of Turkish-Islam culture have led us to welcome people who have been persecuted and wronged in their homes, regardless of religion, language, race, religion. With these qualities, the great Turkish nation has received appreciation in every period of history. And yet, in their dirty past, we have no authority over the so-called Armenian genocide plans that they've taken in the senates and parliaments of all sorts of bloody massacres, genocides, and slavery. At no time in history has the Muslim Turkish nation committed genocide, massacre, and slavery. That's what all the world nations, thinkers and historians have said when they do not look at politics and study history. Dear lawmakers, since 2011, the number of immigrants has increased day by day, although their status is different. Furthermore, the increase in the attacks by regime forces against civilians on the Syrian border is a new threat of mass migration. As of this moment, our country is the largest immigrant country in the world, and we can't possibly accept mass migration from Idlib. Dear lawmakers, it is not possible for Syrian citizens in our country to be sent back by force due to temporary protection status, given the agreements we signed and the conditions of their lives in their country are not appropriate. Two permanent solutions are considered to the Syrians in our country: these are integration called voluntary return and local integration. The integration of a population approaching 4 million is not possible. In order to achieve integration, it is thought that at least three generations should pass, which is close to a hundred years. The problem is not just numbers and times, but it is often necessary for the host society and the visiting community to participate. In social studies, however, 86 per cent of the Turkish community said that the Syrians in our country should return, with the same research specifically saying that the Syrians in the 18-24-year-old group do not like Turks. This also involves the danger of the slightest friction between the Syrians and our citizens living in the same neighborhood becoming a major social event. This is what happened in our provinces in the past, in Şanlıurfa, in Bursa, in Denizli, in Butler, in Hatay. Another problem with integration is changes in demographic structure. As of 2019, the Syrian population in our country is about 3.7%. But when we look at the population growth rate in the Syrians, it is estimated that in 2023 it will be 5 to 6 per cent. As a result of changes in this demographic structure, the future challenges need to be considered. In view of the economic dimension of local integration, Mr. President, the money our country has so far spent on Syrian immigrants is around $40 billion. A $2 billion contribution by the Syrians to the economy and 3 billion euros from the European Union do not even cover the interest of expenses. However, when it is calculated that 40 billion dollars will be directed towards the economy and investment, the profits and prosperity of our country must be taken into account the unfinished routes and investments that will be made in our country. Dear lawmakers, another permanent solution is to ensure voluntary return. Unfortunately, that doesn't seem to be possible very soon. Some 370,000 Syrians have been established in the safe zones of the country's olive branch, the Firat Shield, and the Peace Fountain, but that number is not enough. With the reconstruction and the creation of jobs here, the return of the Syrians to their country should be attractive, and the cost of that is not likely to be afforded by our country. The European Union and the United Nations are obliged to put their hands on the stone for the means and residence of the settlements. The cheapest cost of providing voluntary return is the organisation of the new Syrian Constitution, both for our country and for the world. It is wise to open the way for the Syrians in our country to voluntarily return to their country after a new constitution to protect their lives, their possessions, their faith, their culture, and their security. It is also necessary for the Syrians, provided with security, to return to their home country, to recover their country, which has suffered heavy destruction and needs qualified personnel. Therefore, exceptional citizenship provisions for the adoption of Turkish citizenship must be reconsidered while the Syrians are granted citizenship. In addition, it is wrong to consider only financial investments when given Turkish citizenship. At the very least, a test of language competence and various information on the host country should be tested in granting Turkish citizenship, as in Germany and France. Dear MPs, of course, my time is up. And the last part of my speech is that I'm a pharmacist, and I'd like to save some health with Mr. Health Minister being here. Mr. Secretary, welcome. Mr. Minister, of course, we've passed on the health problems of Düzce, the lack of physicians, not on this issue, but on today's application. As a pharmacist, you know the problems of our public pharmacists. But today I have a request from you on behalf of our pharmacists and citizens, Mr. Secretary. Minister, now, two days ago, we had the Minister of Family, Work and Social Services here, and I gave him this list. There's a list of about 130 meds here, and they're saying they won't be paid by the SGK. What have we got here?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0045par0341	Complete your words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0044par0342	I'm completing it, Mr. President. Here are the mouthwashs that are said to help the treatment, and the ointments we call "topical preparates" mentioned here, Mr. Minister, which are said not to be paid for. These are etophenamats -- 70 years of medicine -- and I'm saying, as a factor, dichlofenak -- what else is there -- there are drugs that contain naproxene sodium, gargles that contain benzalin, nimesulide, and also topical preparats that don't burden the economy, Mr. Secretary. I know there's about 38 billion drug expenditures in our country, but believe me, they don't cost a million dollars a year. It is said to be discussed in the SEC, so we ask you as our Minister of Health, to consider it a responsibility for you not to be paid, to be prevented, and I think you will be interested. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0046par0346	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Habip, the Iğdır MP, is missing. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0047par0349	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We see from civil society organizations, trade unions, political parties, the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal, which is prepared to be smuggled out, for which purpose the public resources will be used, unclear, unsupervised, non-conservative, non-transparable, non-transparency. The 2020 budget, which demonstrates AKP's political approach, is a war budget, which is not presumption of health, maintains capital, is runta-based, deepening poverty, as a basis. Dear lawmakers, health is a state of complete goodness, physically and spiritually. Today, as a result of the Health Transformation Programme, society's health has been corrupted both physically and spiritually, and the reason is because of AKP power. Today, when we look at it, we have a citizen who has chronic illness in almost every house in the country because the neoliberal policies of power view health care as a commercial meta. Due to the metamorphosis of health, the current government, for more customers, has waived protective health care services. Yes, to emphasize again, the AKP's Change in Health Programme: make it sick, treat it with many customers, treat it in hospital after hospital; even if the patient is not enough, guarantee it to be sick, guarantee it to the side, so that the medicine and medical supplies lobby can be favoured. There, the summary of AKP's health perspective is the valuable MPs. Dear lawmakers, we have a lot to say about city hospitals that are a huge burden on the Health Ministry's budget. In particular, it is clear that city hospitals are designed to distribute public budgets in the name of Rant. I will officially make my citizen sick, but if I can't get him sick, I will give the citizens' money for free. The state hospital system, which is guaranteed to be sick, is officially the name of public betrayal. All the public has seen is that city hospitals' wet signed contracts are hiding to cover up corruption, and they know it. It's almost torture for citizens to reach hospitals built hundreds of miles away, even to have access to health care within the hospital. Countless irregularities in city hospitals have also been reflected in the Court reports. The intubation center that doesn't exist, the improper purchase of materials, the opening of hospitals that don't end for early openings, the money paid for maintenance of the garden that doesn't exist, the right to cancel on contracts is only given to non-compulsive companies, and the obligation to prove it by court to cancel contracts by hospital administration is a form of disgrace. In these contracts, in any discrepancy, these subsidiary firms have appointed London courts as referees -- as guarantees of confidence in the Turkish Republic's courts, which the AKP government has turned into a stick against opponents -- so they trust British courts, they don't trust Turkish courts. As a matter of fact, it is important to stress that they are right, because everyone sees that the Turkish courts are biased and are not independent, that they are working on instructions from the AKP. The unlawfulness and events against HDP people are the greatest proof of this. Mr. Secretary, health care today should be provided by being taken to the foot of a citizen, not by suspension from the public, so the city hospital system must be abandoned immediately. Dear lawmakers, today, this much metamorphisation of health, commercialisation, has undermined the trust of health workers, trust in hospitals has been destroyed. We see the conditions of inhuman labor are imposed on doctors who work day by night, health workers. As a result, the bleeding wound of society, the violence in health, unfortunately, is increasing and deepening. Yes, power only watches by forcing this violence to be unresolved. Doctors who have been slaughtered as a result of health violence, the health workers' plague is on the AKP's head. Dear lawmakers, the government's insistence on violent policies, its insecure environment, its lack of law, the corruption of the economy, education, the breakdown of the community's mental health, unfortunately. Look, it is said in the country that medications related to anxiety and depression have increased by 27 percent. As a result of these policies, people who have struggled with poverty, who have been left alone with hunger, have stopped this struggle and caused many sad situations, and unfortunately, they have even come to the point where they end their lives as a family in different models. The AKP must immediately abandon its ruling war policies and declarations of war. Dear lawmakers, health care is a vital requirement in the main language, as is in all areas of life. People who don't speak Turkish have been prevented from accessing basic constitutional rights to health care. For many years, the prohibitions and obstructions on the mother tongue have left people unable to express their problems to the physicians, and they have experienced great suffering. As a doctor, I've seen countless cases that can't explain their problems because they don't speak Turkish and speak Kurdish. In this regard, health care is right and must be given in the mother tongue. Prisoners' right of health and right of life is being declared. Today, we see applications that don't apply medical ethics to prisoners. I'd like to remind the Minister of Health and the doctors who treat you like this, that when you serve the prisoners, you swear to treat everyone equally in the Hippocratic oath. Dear MPs, when the Minister of Health presented the budget -- the one he forgot -- we built this hospital, Ardahana, Ağrı. My constituency has three districts: there is no state hospital in December and Karakoyunlu districts; there is a state hospital in Tuzluca district that is about to be destroyed and has not received an earthquake report. There isn't even a simple angio device at Iğdır State Hospital, but Mr. Secretary says in the Plan and Budget Commission that we've built these hospitals, we've taken this service to Azez. Yes, we're not opposed to the health care of the people living in other countries, but we'd like to know in particular what is the right of Tuzluca, Igdir. If you say, "We've occupied the sovereign areas of another country and we've made it seem as if we've made it necessary for you to ask the question: Did you apply some of the cities of Northern Syria, some of Rojava, to the geographical 7 region of Turkey as the 8th district? Don't you know this is against international contracts? Don't you know that it is against the Constitution to invest in Syria permanently and to do so with taxes from the people? Dear lawmakers, thousands of people have been unlawfully discharged from their jobs by the NGOs and security investigations. In private hospitals, these doctors, health workers, were sentenced to slave labor conditions. Today, it is also reported to the press that brain migration has increased 15 percent abroad. The Ministry must return these people to their jobs immediately. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Health -- a complete lack of supervision -- have turned into a ministry protecting the criminal, exonerating the responsible. The health ministry reported that thousands of vaccines had been destroyed because it had expired in its warehouses and that the state's budget had been damaged by millions of dollars. Illegal bills in private hospitals are officially tolerated by power. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, many family physicians are unfortunately doing health care in hardcore ASMs. Today, many villages in Turkey seek health care by traveling miles because there is no ASM or health centre. Since family physicians and nurses don't have a health centre, they do vaccines in villages where they go in unhealthy, unhygienic environments. One of the most important problems of our geography is that children's vaccines and scans of families who go to seasonal labor or who make a living on footing are unfortunately not done on time. We invite the Ministry of Health to do their duty. Dear lawmakers are also well-known in public that millions of pounds of funds and land have been encouraged by several private hospitals, including the Minister's Board of Directors Medipol Hospital. Mr. Secretary has made it clear in the Plan and Budget Commission that he has no savings on this issue without basing it on documents. On this matter, Mr. Secretary, we would like to invite the public in the People's Assembly to make a statement with documents, especially with documents. As a result, I'd like to reiterate that the 2020 budget is the war budget.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0048par0368	Boo you!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0047par0369	As representatives of the people, I once again stress that we will never vote for such a budget, that we will defend public health, rights, law, to the end, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0049par0371	Mr. Semra Nice, Diyarbakır MP, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0050par0373	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the health department's budget. Of course, we'd like to say good things about health from this bench, but we've had another year in our region and country where people are slaughtered every day, trying to cross borders for a war-free life, where lives are lost, and people are cut off because they can't take drugs. This year, public health was sacrificed to neoliberal policies. Instead of asking us how many people do we bring back to life, how much money do we get from the sick one? We found that both in the Court reports and in the government's budget proposal this year, not in public health, but in the interest of corporations. In the developed countries, policies that promote protective health care are being produced, while in our country, the cost of protective health care per capita in 2019 is $12.5. The ministry considers it sufficient for citizens not to be sick, so the citizen will be ill. Why? Because if city hospitals don't fill up, that means the state's in debt to private companies. You shut down public hospitals and public health institutions and opened city hospitals where you said there would be better health care, but we've seen that these luxury buildings are not hospitals, they're buildings like the AVM where health is distributed by money, the working conditions of health workers are overturned, the company is making more money. Hospitals are so big that if you get lost on some people's walls, call here. It's written. Yes, it disappears into the citizens. We said it would be a disaster to have health run jointly with the private sector, and today we see that we are right. The government has given private companies their land and is providing services to private companies. We still don't know the contents of the contracts with these companies. According to the Court reports, city hospitals' contracts were not reached because they were commercial secrets. The only secret in the field of health is between the patient and the physician, but there's been a trade secret between the two institutions, and there's a lot of corruption under that commercial secret. Although there were no IVFs at Elazığ Fethi Sekin City Hospital, it was reflected in the Court reports, which the Ministry of Health has paid a guarantee for this department. The report found that payments made to companies under the guarantee of fullness were not accounted for. Although the promised patient fill-up rates have been provided, the payments to companies have been lower than the amount of guarantees. Again, the Court reports suggest that the City Hospital contract must be committed to the Ministry of Health to pay compensation, even if the contract is terminated early due to the company's defect. There's a guarantee in this country that any citizen walking on the street will make money in any case without a guarantee of life. It's such a guarantee that even in the unfinished garden, the Ministry has given a guaranteed price. While Elazig, Manisa, Adana City Hospitals were under construction and the yard maintenance services were not being used, the Ministry paid a guarantee on yard maintenance. According to the report, part of the medical equipment purchased under city hospital contracts was not used due to the lack of health care and quantity, which means public money has gone to waste again. Dear MPs, let's come to the Turkish Institute of Medicine and Medicine. According to the Court reports, there was $11m in public damage due to the fact that 628,000 doses of vaccines were forgotten in the warehouses and expired. On the one hand, the public's money is wasted in this way, while the public is victimised by the fact that many drugs have been removed from the payment list of the SGK. The SGC has removed hundreds of drugs from the repayment list, including sugar, cancer, prostate, heart disease treatments. This year, on February 19th, the drugs were increased by 22 percent at once, and citizens have to pay the difference because the SGK has not changed the discount ratios, so the drugs are increased, and the bill is made to the public because the SGK has not paid the difference. The Istanbul Chamber of Pharmaceuticals says about 500 drugs, including those used in severe diseases, were not found in pharmacies and caused deaths and victims. As the agency took money from the public and tried to raise money for the companies, corruption took its toll. The Public Contractorship has found that in their study of medical supplies, service and production, there is corruption in every three tenders, and that there is not a single university in which the tenders have not been irregularized. However, the investigation permit is subject to the SEC, so it cannot be processed. Dear lawmakers, this year's budget for the Ministry of Health is 5 per cent of the total budget. The budget for Turkey's Borders and Coastal General Directorate is 152m 450000 euros. How much of this budget is being spent protecting human health on Borders and Coasts? The investigation into the agency's alleged 10 million-trel deposit between 2008 and 2013 remains incomplete. When the tenders from the institution came into play in 2019, the files sent to İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office indicated that the damage to the state amounted to 65m euros in total, but the State Department demanded documents related to the Ministry of Health to investigate the process, but the Health Ministry extended the judicial process because it did not deliver the necessary documents to the State. Again, the agency's operational reports of 2018 were not prepared in the legal process. For some reason, the name of an institution that has a vital importance and is known to save lives for every policy it implements is being spoken of with corruption and irregularity. Does the same institution remember its original mission? How long does it protect borders and beaches? Almost 2,000 people die every year trying to escape the war in the Mediterranean and on the coast of the Aegean. In the year 2018, 2,500 people have died in the Mediterranean and 4,500 in the last four years in the Aegean. As the refugee crisis deepens, the number of people who have lost their lives increases. The government continues to deepen the refugee crisis with war policies leading to new migrations. The state of health institutes is also not independent of the government's health policies. Independent, head of the Executive Board of the Institute, Mr. Secretary, founded to do scientific research. Institutes in the world are institutions based on independent research and production of information, but in our country, the head of the Institute is the Minister of Health, as if everything has to be controlled by power. Dear MPs, today is December 14th, the anniversary of curfews. During curfews, medical staff were tried, some even killed during the conflict, whose primary duty was to distribute health. On August 2, 2019, four health workers were arrested for treating a 10-year-old child during curfews in Cizre. The ambulance was prevented from interfering with the wounded in the combat zones. The ambulance driver Sheikhmus Dursun, who wanted to go to the hospital for an intervention, was killed as Eyup Ergen was released from his watch at Cizre State Hospital. St. Yural, a health worker at Cizre State Hospital, was shot by snipers on December 30, 2015 as he went to help the injured woman in the neighborhood. In the case known as the Cizre ambulance case, 14 of our colleagues were tried for offering medical assistance to civilians in Cizre, where they went after formal appeals. During curfews, eight health clinics in Cizre were closed for seventy-three days and used as a police station. Only five of them were opened after the ban, because three were destroyed during the conflict. The emergency section of Cizre State Hospital was used as a military base, while the upper floors were used as a dorm by security forces. There were many rights violations of life rights and health rights at the time. Dear lawmakers, according to the World Health Organization's definition, health is not only a lack of disease and disability, but also a complete well-being in body, spirit, and social. We also say that there should be a political well-being situation. Unfortunately, this country's health policies are good when we think about the economic crisis in Turkey today, the wars, the illegalities, and all the KHKs that suddenly upset people's lives, the people who were killed in the middle of the street and the killings that resulted in punishment. Turkey scored zero points out of 100 and moved to history in a survey organised by the International Budget Partnership, showing its budgetary rights. A budget that the public does not participate in, the opinions of the vocational rooms are not taken, and the government has prepared for its needs can only be a continuation of antidemocratic practices. In a fundamental issue such as health, policies based on numbers should be abandoned; a budget where women, young people, vocational rooms, NGOs are not included, opposition proposals are ignored, not public health, but more death and unhealthy life. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0051par0387	Mr. Murat Çepni, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0052par0389	Thank you, Mayor. The General Assembly and our valued people, yes, it is the days when a great era of extinction is being discussed all over the world, and we are at risk of the destruction of the world's future, its habitats by the hands of humanity. In this process, of course, we're discussing the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization budget during a period of the same discussions in Turkey. Here, of course, is the beginning of our most fundamental problems -- the climate crisis that we've been discussing around the world -- the economic crisis that we've described as the destruction of nature and habitats, the destruction of ecological destruction itself -- all these discussions, the governments and the people, the governments and the environment, the ecology organizations. Now, we are faced with a very serious problem in both the world and Turkey, so the biggest danger and risk the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism puts on us today is the fact that people, environmental and urban policies, environmental and ecology organisations, trade organisations, and scientists are not involved in this process. Now, the risk we face today is directly related to the political process in which all these environments are not included in these discussions. We call it a place-based politics, a place-based dictatorship, we call it a place-to-place dictatorship, we call it fascism, but despite all of that, all of these descriptions of us actually haven't been able to cover the risk we're facing, I'm afraid. Because the risk we face is an irreparable risk, which is that the world's destruction, and Turkey's reversible destruction, is not an issue that can be overcome today by any discussion, by any criticism, by any self-criticism. So here, the Ministry has to have a very direct relationship with the ecology organizations, scientists, environments, citizens that we've been counting all along. I did it, I did it. I did it. We do it with instructions, with decrees. We can also say that the risk that we face under the circumstances where the Ministry of Interior has become a security force, rather than the security of the nation, is much more complicated than the security of the destruction companies; the destruction of the Ministry of the environment, which says, "No to the destructions created by the Ministry of the environment, the silence of the villagers, the suppression of the villagers." We're facing a climate crisis. We call it the crisis of capitalism, because this crisis, as I mentioned in the beginning, is one of the consequences of the brutal exploitation of humanity, more capitalism -- more profit, maximum profit -- and market economy -- natural resources and labor. Now, the climate crisis is being discussed all over the world. The latest global actions against the climate crisis have been carried out, and millions of people have participated in these actions. In Turkey, we saw millions of people participate, and we joined. So today, the main agenda of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has to be the climate crisis and the struggle. Look, you can't just plant a plant to fight a climate crisis. The fight against the climate crisis can only be fought by the protection of the forests. If you don't protect the forests, if you chase the forests to the mining companies, if you burn them for safety, the new saplings that are planted today will be far from a cure for tomorrow. The main causes of the climate crisis are fossil fuels itself - oil, natural gas, and coal - the coal fuel of thermal plants. Therefore, the destruction of these will either be prevented or destroyed, unfortunately there is no middle ground. Thus, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism must have an action plan on this matter. Now, the changing of consumption habits in the announced action plans is not discussed by the energy policies described under the name energy investments. What's the debate? There are some arrangements for which someone, such as the plant plantings and so on, they describe in the publications they describe as the public spot. But the process is asking us: First of all -- we've made it very clear in the discussion of the plant -- you don't even remove the risk by putting a chimney in the thermal plants. Thermal plants are trying to be restricted around the world, while Turkey is discussing increasing its number. As the ministry, do you have a policy on limiting and removing these thermal plants? Do you have a plan against the destruction of forests and farmland, for example, against the turning of the Aegean region into a JES dumpster, against the destruction of the Black Sea forests and its plateaus, which are described as the "Green Road" project, to turn Munzur Valley completely into a mining site? We don't see that kind of planning for sure. Environmental sensitivity cannot be done under the supervision of CEOs of construction companies. Environmental sensitivity can only be conducted with public, environmental organisations, citizens, citizens, and scientists. Now, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is now the CEO of energy companies, construction companies. Whatever their needs are, he's planning whatever it takes to get them to make a profit, and we're stuck here in the House, putting them in some form. Yes, as I mentioned in the beginning, today, the Home Office and its law enforcement forces are tasked with suppressing the opposition developed against it. Look, I'm asking you about the Kaz Mountains: Today, the 14th time of renovation is over, what are you going to do? We ask from here what will be the condition of the mining license in the Kaz Mountains. The Canal Istanbul Project is a demolition project, a project you can't explain why. The great destructions of this have been discussed and discussed. What's your opinion on that? Lake Salda... there's a construction going on at Lake Salda, and the Ministry says it's not a very serious construction, it's a long way from here. What we're asking from here is, what if you never do? Do you have to? Don't you think it'd be better if you just kept your hands off it? Munzur Valley has very rich endemic plants, a historical heritage, also a center of faith. How dare you, how dare you, who do you declare this a minefield by asking? What gives you the right? Izmir has become the garbage of Aydın JES, he can't breathe; the villagers are screaming, death rates are rising. You're not enough, you're trying to make new JESEs in Aydın, you're not enough, you're making Ýzman a JES area. How dare you, how dare you, what kind of anti-people policy is this; what kind of hostility is this, and we find that really hard to understand. Yesterday I told them about the Green Road Project in the Black Sea. So the Black Sea has turned into HES garbage, and you think you're doing it here in the Black Sea, under the name of national and patriotic policies. You slaughtered the Black Sea.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0053par0404	What did we slaughter?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0052par0405	Where's the nationalism in that, where's the patriotism in that? What kind of Ministry policy is that? What kind of government policy is that? So we rephrase all of this: this policy has no consequences, this policy has no comebacks; it cannot be compensated.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0053par0406	You want electricity to the plateau, you don't want HES.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0052par0407	This is also directly related to the way Turkey governs, as well as to its democracy. This policy, which is hostile to the people, against nature, can only be instilled in democracy by democratic politics, by holding it all over again.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0054par0408	Let's go back to the gas lamp, the gas lamp.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0055par0409	Let's hear it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0052par0410	It can't be done in public, in capital, in capital companies. We said the AKP was in power by 1 per cent. As long as the AKP, which is in power by 1%, continues its anti-public and natural policies, we will continue to stand against it as the oppressed millions. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0056par0413	Şırnak MP Mr. Hüseyin won't run away, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0057par0415	Mr. President, valuable MPs, today, yes, there is a budget debate in the House. At the same time, today is the anniversary of the curfew declared on 14 December 2015 in the southeastern counties of Şırnak Province and Cizre. Today was the beginning of this historic period of apocalypse-like painting, as the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights reported. When curfews began on December 14th, announcements were made on speakers in the morning, and curfews were declared for public peace, lives and property security. But this ban, unfortunately, took away the lives, possessions, and peace of mind of many of our civilian citizens for a lifetime. In this period, before December 14th, on September 4th, the curfew was declared in Cizre and 22 civilians lost their lives. One of them was Cemile Arakga, a ten - year - old, as many of you may have known. Cemile was shot in front of his door, and his mother and uncle who tried to take him were also scanned. Cemile's funeral had to be hidden in the freezer for three days because the fighting continued, and they could not bury the body. Of course, at that time, there were reports of terrorist groups in the media that were immediately involved, but Cemile's mother and other family members were able to see very clearly where the bullet came from. They said it came from armored vehicles and that Cemile had died with these bullets. According to the statement of Davutoglu, who was Prime Minister at the time, there were no civilian casualties in Cizre. Against his family, the prime minister asked him to come and see my daughter, how is that little boy a terrorist? Along with Cemile, dozens of civilians lost their lives. We could feel a description of this suffering very clearly in his response to his father's response to a journalist. You can write to the journalist who asked him, "How old are you?" I am 53 years old, but he has suffered for two hundred years. Because the father, Ramadan Arakga, did not lose a child for the first time, lost seven others from his family, along with a mortar bullet that hit his house in the 90s. Unfortunately, Kurd's hard luck, the fate of Macaus, came again in Cizre and found Cemile Arakga this time. Again, there was a three-month-old Miray baby in Cizre. Miray was shot in the cheek by snipers at the doll's house, her parents thought she was dead, but five minutes later, when she cried, they realized she was alive, and they called for an ambulance. When they asked for an ambulance in contact with 155, although they went out with a white flag, unfortunately they were scanned again, and this time the baby Miray died. The Miray baby was only three months old, so here's his picture. At the time, there was still no civilian casualties. It was called, which means the Miray baby was considered a terrorist. And again, in Bethüşşebap, in '94, the poor 74-year-old Mehmet, who took his family and came to Cizre in the 90s because of the mortar shot at his house, wanted to go out and find something to eat when there was nothing left to eat -- in the days of the right -- but unfortunately it didn't work out like he said. Although his family said, "Don't go out, it's dangerous." He said, "I'm old, no one will do anything." But unfortunately, Uncle Mehmet was shot in the head and his funeral was on the ground for a day. And, again, there was similar suffering in Silvio. In Silopi, as many of you know, Taybet İnan, the mother of 11 children 57, was scanned and killed as she returned from her neighbor's house; her brother-in-law who tried to save her was shot, and her wife who tried to save the wounded was injured. And this was the funeral, and the funeral of Taybet Faith, which was seven days and seven nights in the street. In many parts of the world, many times in history, there have been wars, massacres, sufferings, but a funeral has never been left out seven days and seven nights. I was there at the time, and we were in constant communication with both chiefs and prosecutors. Even though we tried our best to end this family's suffering with the removal of this funeral and its religious obligations, we couldn't get this funeral, and these bodies were here for seven days and seven nights, stuck on the street. I've read it before. His son had some expressions about his mother's condition: "We never spoke of love, but he had a hug, worth the world, he couldn't express it if there were thousands of words. My mother stayed on the street for exactly seven days, none of us could sleep, in case the dogs came and the birds landed. He slept there, and we died 500 feet away. We all have mothers, don't we? Maybe some of our mothers have lost their lives, but motherly love is different, friends. This family, this child, seven days and seven nights, had to wait 500 feet away from his mother's funeral, so that the birds wouldn't be put in, and the dogs wouldn't come and tear up her funeral. That's exactly what the Kurdish issue is.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0058par0423	A bomb was placed under the body.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0057par0424	Please, Mr Cora, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0058par0425	The bomb was placed under the body.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0057par0426	Taybet İnan planted a bomb?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0058par0427	They've always been made by the PKK, the PKK!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0059par0428	Don't give me that shit. Don't give me that shit. What are you making up, that the bomb was planted, why are you lying?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0060par0429	Guys, please calm down... Mr. Cora, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0061par0431	Congressmans, if you'll excuse me, I'm just telling you what's going on.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0062par0432	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0063par0433	Don't be rude! Watch your mouth!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0064par0434	Guys, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0062par0435	What bomb did they put in there? Where do you make it up? Where do they put a bomb?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0065par0436	Mr. Cora, look, I'm the one who was born there, I'm the one who grew up, I'm the one who's been there, I'm the one who's seen all those cannon shots. Let us decide who did it for once! We saw it with our own eyes! And we can't convince you that we saw it with our own eyes. We can't convince who we are; we can't convince what our language is; we can't convince what our culture is. Why don't you let us decide who's making enemies for us? I'm afraid it's been done. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You said the Turkish army wouldn't do it. You said, "He bombed this place, he bombed it, he bombed this coven a few days later."
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0066par0439	They were traitors!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0067par0440	You're setting an example of those traitors! It's beautiful.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0065par0442	They slaughtered 251 civilians over there.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0066par0443	They were traitors!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0065par0444	What, do you not see them, but wonder at what we say? Don't!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0068par0445	It's obvious who bombed it, the terrorists bombed it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0069par0446	What's it gonna be, surrender to a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0065par0447	In the three basements of Cizre, 177 people were slaughtered, even though everyone knew it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0069par0448	Will the government surrender to the terrorist organization?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0065par0449	177 people were slaughtered.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0070par0451	Guys, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Runz...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0065par0453	Even if you agree...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0070par0454	Mr. Runzmaz bombed the Turkish army. A statement came out of your mouth like that. The bombing was done by terrorists.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0071par0455	The government will not surrender to the terrorist organization!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0072par0456	They were in the army then, they were in the army then!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0073par0457	Tell me about the people, the people!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0074par0458	Traitors within the Turkish army...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0075par0459	I'm asking you to fix this.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0074par0460	What I mean is very clear.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0075par0461	Fix it, please!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0076par0462	Mr. President, apologize!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0074par0463	What I mean is very clear.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0077par0464	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0074par0465	Back then, there were traitors inside the soldier, and when they bombed this place, there were traitors again. Someone's scratching this place with deep hands, scratching the Kurdish issue. For years we've told you not to deny the Kurdish issue, the Kurdish reality. Denial is causing these problems in the Kurdish issue. All you say is the result. We've been trying to tell you all these years. We're fighting for this to never happen again. We saw how little children were slaughtered there.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0078par0466	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0079par0468	Get the fuck out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0080par0469	Shut up and listen!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0079par0470	Let him talk, listen to the preacher!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0081par0471	This is for those with a conscience. Yeah, you can be uncomfortable when we say that, and we're uncomfortable. We didn't come here to have a one-on-one argument with any of you; we came here to talk about the problem, to come up with a solution. I couldn't explain much more of what happened back then, but it was such a long time. How the solution process ended, we can tell them one by one.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0082par0472	It's over because you didn't drop the guns.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0083par0473	It's over because you didn't drop the guns.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0081par0474	We can tell you one by one who killed Nihat Kazanhan, Hope Kurt.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0084par0475	Why don't you tell us about your massacres in Afrin?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0081par0476	That day and today, a hand inside the government is constantly scratching the issue, and civil citizens are dying in this war.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0085par0477	There's no war, there's a war on terror.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0081par0478	Then, when you said that, right after they bombed this House, whether you accept it or not.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0085par0479	It was the terrorists, it was the terrorists, it wasn't the Turkish army.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0081par0480	Friends, look, there are many more examples of this, and I was going to tell you, but you didn't let me say that many people who died here were descendants of family members who had died in the 90s, the people who had been evacuated, the people who were tortured in the village square, the people who were fed feces. After this was done in the 90s, unfortunately, it was brought to 2015, and these massacres in 2015...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0086par0482	Mr. He won't run away, finish your words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0087par0483	Why don't you count the massacres of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0081par0484	We'll settle this matter peacefully so that it doesn't cause similar massacres, similar suffering, there's no choice but dialogue.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0088par0485	Say it once, once, you couldn't call the PKK a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0089par0486	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0081par0487	Those who commit these massacres will have to answer one day. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0090par0490	That's right, it's the PKK who did the massacre, it's true.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0081par0491	We know very well, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0090par0492	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0081par0494	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0090par0495	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0081par0496	Know your place, speak your level, be your level!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0091par0497	It's not your place!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0092par0498	The massacrers will answer every day.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0093par0499	Friends... Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0094par0500	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0093par0501	Mr. Özkan, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0095par0503	It's not your place!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0096par0504	Put your hand down!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0095par0505	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0097par0506	Sit down!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0096par0507	Put your hand down! You sit down!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0097par0508	Who are you yelling at?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0096par0509	Put your hand down!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0097par0510	Who are you yelling at?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0096par0511	Sit down!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0097par0512	The minister, he's over there.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit01spe0098par0513	Yeah, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0098par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. The talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group remained.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0099par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0098par0006	Mr. Özkan, I believe you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0099par0010	Mr. President, as he spoke from the stand, of course, he spoke of some testimony that hurt the conscience of our beloved nation, but we know by the responsibility of being a state, and we are fighting for it, which is the burden of our state and nation. We have to be very sensitive when we're talking about these things. See, the terrorist organization is always referring to unity and unity in this country by making all kinds of mechanisms, all kinds of propaganda. Of course, the witness there wasn't just a preacher, there were other witnesses, but when he described the suffering there as the pain of our country, of our nation, it wasn't just by looking at it from one perspective, it wasn't just by focusing on certain suffering.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0098par0012	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0099par0013	Look, we lost our victims in the fight against terrorism, our children in the arson, our babies. We've all had our share of threats and attacks on Kurdish, on Turkish, on Laz, on the brotherhood of 82 million people, but it's not acceptable to look at what's happening from just one perspective, ignoring these attacks of the terrorist organization. We saw together the bomb devices that were hidden in the Korans in the battle of the Ditches. Again, we saw that the bodies of those who died there were hidden under their bodies by bomb devices, and, unfortunately, because of these false schemes, we also gave martyrs.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0098par0015	Please complete it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0099par0016	Finally, we are defending the peace and peace of 82 million in this country, so that the state can live. See, it's obvious from the human attitude of this state, the Mehmetchik, the Armed Forces, how our security forces behave in a humanitarian manner, the way we have shown in Afrin, Cerablus, and Operation Peace Fountain. The members of the terrorist organization, who saw our Mehmet-chik, and tried to escape the trials that they planted there, tried to escape with fistans made of flowery biceps. Where did they take refuge when they couldn't escape? Again, they came to our Mehmetchik and took refuge. It means that our Mehmet-chik, let alone our innocent citizens, has demonstrated the ability to show motherly compassion to terror organizations, no matter what its adjective in the fight on the front.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0098par0018	Mr. Özkan, if I may have your final words. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0099par0020	Therefore, in this frame, I express that we do not accept such attacks on our beloved nation, who have been crowned with human values throughout history, with this kind of terror talk against our Mehmetchik, and I do hope that all MPs will approach the talks that serve the peace of our beloved nation, not with the mouth of terror. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0100par0023	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0101par0024	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0100par0026	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to address a matter of procedure first. Mr. President, here are the MPs, the MPs of the people, speaking, speaking; they've all been chosen; they've all been honored by the public. An appointed minister cannot address him while a speaker is sitting in his seat, or wave his hand at him; he is not in order. There's a budget meeting here. In these talks, lawmakers are entitled to voice any criticism from the bench. This is not in order. I'm criticizing you on this, and as Acting Speaker of Congress, you were supposed to respond to the Minister's lack of courage, and I'd like to mention that in the first place. Second: Now, sir, look, there are people here who were members of parliament at the time, and there are people who didn't happen at the time. Now, I'm going to remind you of what happened back then, and I'm going to inform the others.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0102par0031	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0100par0032	The events of that period were discussed on this parliamentary stand, so it was discussed while living; it was sought to prevent deaths, civilian casualties. Our current Deputy Director of the Group, Idris Baluken, who was currently in prison at the time, Osman Baydemir, our MP at the time, Coral Danış Beştaş, named it after these people, 33 people, civilians, who are now in the basement, they've tried to save them, but they're all in the ground right now. Look, you're going to see all these debates in the House transcripts. At that time, there were talks with Minister of the Interior, Efkan Ala, in order to prevent deaths, prevent civilian casualties. These were all known to the interviewers. Remember, Efkan Ala said there were forces at that time that we couldn't control. He said, "There are forces that we can't control."
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0103par0036	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0100par0037	I advise all of you to read what Mr. Efkan Ala said in the coup commissions.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0104par0038	He must have mentioned your father-in-law!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0100par0039	In terms of surrogates who don't know the time, they're in the Parliament archives, you take them out, you read them, and you see them. The dialogue was interrupted, after the dialogue was interrupted, civilians were slaughtered and burned in the basements of Cizre. They were young people, civilians. Now, let's put that aside. Sir, the second point is, look, I'm going to give you some names. General Adem Huduti, Commander of the 2nd Army, Chief of the 2nd Army, Major General Avni Angun, Major General Halil Ergin of the 3rd Tactical Infantry Division, Hakkari Mountain and Komando Brigade Commander General Ahmet Otal, Hemdinli 34th Border Brigade Commander Ali Salnur...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0105par0043	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0100par0044	General Abdullah Baysar, Brigadier General Abdullah Baysar, Şırnak Çakırsöğüt MP Komando Brigade Commander Brigadier General Ali Osman Gürcan; all of whom served in the area at that time, were arrested and sentenced for the July 15 coup attempt. At that time, those who had committed the massacres in Cizre, in Silvio, and in Tyre, and then picked up planes from there and came here and bombed the Assembly were punished and are now in prison, and these were the commanders. Now, why are we saying this? There was a big scam there, and it was prevented from arguing.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0105par0046	Your final words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0100par0047	The end...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0105par0048	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0100par0049	Now, I want to remind you of one other thing: I'm not saying this as a polemic thing, but just to be clear, on that time, on October 13, 2018, Mr. State Gardener of Hurriyet had done an interview with columnist Ertuğul Özkök, who had said: "When the events began in the southeast, I immediately said, "Proclaim martial law there." But then I saw that they did not listen to my word, because there, on that day, we were saying, "The Komutans are fighting terrorism." Now, for these commanders, for those commanders who had committed these massacres at the time, there was Act 6722 issued in this House. Why? It was brought forth for the captains, that they should not be judged, that they may be punished. This Congress did. Then we said, "Don't do this." We couldn't make him listen. Now, speaking of these facts, discussing them, of course, is the duty of this House, where else are we going to talk about it, as parties in this House?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0105par0052	Your final words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0100par0053	Yes, I'd like to point that out to you, Mr. President. We're gonna keep arguing anyway. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0105par0056	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0106par0057	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0105par0058	I promise. Dear lawmakers, as you know, under the presidential government system, the ministers have arrived, sworn here, and have somehow earned the right to participate in Parliamentary work. We are now discussing the budget of the presidential government system. Of course, in the speech of the ministers in the Parliament's work here, the speakers have spoken to each other, just as the other MPs can speak to each other, it is not a mistake that the ministers have done so, but a right to do so.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0107par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0105par0064	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0108par0067	Mr. President, thank you. It is not for us, of course, to accept that the Deputy Chairman of the HDP Group is trying to base his own speech on a statement given by our Mr. President in particular after the July 15 coup attempt. Our President and the Nationalist Movement Party, of course, have supported the operations of the premises that took place at the time, institutionally sided with our army to the end of our security forces, and demonstrated a clear stance at the point of the most powerful fulfillment of this and the destruction of the structures of terror in those areas, in those cities.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0105par0070	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0108par0071	In addition to these operations at the time, the Constitution, which was found in the region at the point of taking large measures -- not in our current Constitution -- but in that period -- could be applied to martial law measures, as well as to those operations. And when we evaluated the traitors who came out of our army -- they've been compromised during July 15th -- when we evaluated them -- when we considered the possibility that this would happen, as well as some of the military's administrative powers would take over, he said that it was a great chance that none of these administrative powers would ever come into his hands. This assessment does not mean that what our army and security forces have done there is wrong, that the local operations they've done in that area are wrong.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0105par0073	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0108par0074	This is a limited interpretation of martial law measures. Other than that, our attitude at that point was clear that day, and today is clear. We are with our government, our government, in any measure at the point of eliminating terror. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0109par0077	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0110par0078	Mr. Oluç, I'll make one promise at a time. Mr. Special, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0111par0081	Mr. President, after what happened yesterday, Mr. Varank, Minister of Industry and Technology, I can't possibly agree with the statement you just made today after the reaction of our group and Parliament to some of the promises and actions that Mr. Varank has made here from the platform and from the platform. First of all, after the Constitutional Amendment on April 16th, which refers to the regime, there is a one-man government in this system, which, despite all our opposition at the time, has been discovered, and those who want the vote are calling it the president's government system, which is the only and only one-man government that can send the budget law to Parliament. Last time, we all sat together during the Civil Charter work, and by bending the Constitution, taking on many difficulties, and talking about all of those possibilities...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0110par0084	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0111par0085	...the planners of this system are no longer the ministers of this system, not the political ones, these are the technicians, despite your statements, Mr. President, I would like to remind you that the person who is in charge of this bench... There will be an oath, and they will need a bench in Ankara, and they will use the seat of parliament as a trustee. Why? Before that oath, there is no more reading a government program, presenting a list of Ministers' Committees, and the government taking a vote of confidence as a whole. These ministers, who came out of the House as an exception to the old system, were appointed as an exception, but in the first inter-election or in the first election -- as you have followed several times -- were made a parliamentary MP in the first election -- that is, essentially, the MPs from within the House were elected ministers, and the exceptions from the outside were in the first election.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0110par0087	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0112par0088	Mr. President, we've discussed this a lot!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0111par0089	At the point where the ministers from a sit-down system, where they have taken over the chair, didn't get the vote of confidence, didn't have the verbal questions, and the cost of their political mistakes was taken away from them in political terms, these ministers are no longer the ministers. There will be a stronger establishment of separation of forces. If your claim is true, you should be most disturbed by this situation. The former legislature can't use the same language as when the High Judiciary Council comes and watches, and they can't hang from there and threaten the nation's deputy, and neither can the ministers who are sitting here can speak to the Hati or the Hati who is coming down from the stand.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0110par0091	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0111par0092	In this regard, the task must not be left to the MPs of the groups; it is yours; the Civil Code is in the middle, the Constitution is in the middle. It is your duty to warn those who attempt to do so in such a way that they will not be able to do so if this is done -- to set an example later on. If you don't do this, we, the Deputy Directors of the Group, will have to protect the rights and rights of our group and Parliament, which will increase tension. Therefore, do your duty, and do not let those who raise their hand, raise their arms, insult the nation's deputy from their dwelling place. If done, it was called ill-advised. In that regard, you have shown a predisposed attitude with your earlier sentences to possible misdeeds, and we do not accept that. And if anyone does anything rash, we'll kick their ass. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0110par0095	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0113par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to rephrase what I just said in my speech.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0110par0100	Friends, dear MPs, look, this is Deputy Director of the Group, please... Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0113par0102	Thank you. I want to repeat what I just said. There is no place for a minister to say to any MP -- no matter what party, it's not just about us -- "Get out of here!" during budget debates. Let's be clear: nothing can justify it, and we will not give up our insistence on it. Now, we know exactly why this Minister is acting like this. So there's a lot to discuss, and we'll continue to discuss it during the day. Politically, of course, we're going to discuss the relationship between where we are now and where we've been in the past. You can't do this with words like that, you can argue with documents.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0114par0106	Please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0113par0107	We do our argument with documents and analysis, not insulting anyone. We're having a political discussion. Of course we'd like to ask, like why a Home Secretary who came at us so excited was expelled from his previous party? Of course, we'd like everyone to share them with the Democratic Party at the time. Of course, we'd like to discuss the plans to unite the Democratic Party at that time with the ANAP, against the AKP, in fact, as plans for the congregation. Because we know all this, and since we're going to talk about all this, the Home Secretary can do this to our deputies, to our party.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0115par0108	You're the real deal! You're the real deal!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0116par0109	You're the real deal!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0117par0110	Dear friends, allow me...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0118par0111	But even so, we'll never stop telling the truth for a second, that's number one. Secondly, I'd like to say something in one sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0117par0114	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0118par0115	I've just counted the names here, the names of various military commanders and high-ranking generals, those who are currently in prison, those who have been tried and those who have been punished.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0117par0117	Guys, I'm having trouble following, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0118par0118	I was counting those names for a reason, and I tried to tell you something, but I couldn't make it clear, maybe I was lacking. These generals and commanders have activated a pulse mechanics, so they've done a lot of things there. So what happened at that time in Cizre, in Silvio, in Sur, in Nusaybin, in various places, in Hakkari, in Şırnak, was actually a step to mobilise the mechanics of the coup. That's when we pointed out that in the council stand and in all our group meetings and in the commission meetings, we pointed out, we warned.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0117par0120	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0118par0121	To the Justice and Development Party, there are forces that stimulate this impact dynamic. Be watchful about this, it will not end well. We said, and we were right. And the captains, who were tried and punished for it, did the massacres there, and the same commanders came and struck the assembly after that. These are commanders who are essentially coupters, and that's what we've been trying to tell you, and that's why I'm counting names, and that's why I'm giving examples. I want it on the record one more time. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0119par0125	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0120par0127	Mr. President, thank you. Anger calls for anger, kindness calls for kindness. If there's tension in the middle, there's definitely a problem from the language used here to the persimmon. Smart people have to pay attention to the honor of the people they're dealing with as much as their own. When it comes to honor, people's status means nothing because it's the most vital quality of man and man protects his honor. There are many assessments of the system. Our opinion is that if the budget talks are fully technical, the ministers will give technical answers, but if you evaluate the budget in full political debates in these talks, the minister, who is the spokesman for the budget you're talking about, who has to express it, and who has to answer those political arguments in the same way.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0121par0131	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0120par0132	That's the logic of it. So, if you're looking at technique, you're going to talk technical. I've been looking at friends who have been talking about the budget for days, and naturally, political debates are always coming forward. They'll be answered, who will? The minister in charge will.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0122par0133	He'll give it to you when it's his turn.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0120par0134	Therefore, I speak, I say everything, I speak all sorts of criticism, but no one can answer me. This is not the right approach.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0123par0135	He's entitled to a stand, give it to him.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0120par0136	Let us bind the hands and ears of the ministers, and let their ears be open, and let them say all things. This is not true. Besides, friends who are speaking that is fundamentally not true need to appreciate it - logic, morality, and conscience. You'll tell him, he'll definitely have an answer. Here the measure is polite, where the measure is to dominate a language about the living of the negotiation.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0124par0138	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0120par0139	If we do this, we'll all have this conversation together, no problems. Whether it's political or technical, it's all been overcome after being kind, but if there's some kind of hazing attitude, I assure you, the language about the usual terms of negotiations of Parliament will be out of commission here. So don't let anyone get involved in any kind of attitude or anything like that. We're all here, I think, in a common sense, negotiating on the basis of our nation's understanding of how to view the budget, how to evaluate it. So let's be careful with our assessments, please, let's keep that line of kindness together. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0125par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0126par0143	I will. Mr. Special asked for a word first, and I'll give you my word on that, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0127par0146	I have no objection to the President's basic approach. We've also told the minister how the Republican People's Party Group has approached the ministers, especially since the start of the budget, who have not exceeded their own mandate. What we're trying to say here is that the budget is a law proposal entrusted by the executive body -- the former power is now called the first party -- entrusted to its own party. Here, it is the first responsibility of the Justice and Development Party Group today to provide a numerical majority, vote necessary for roll call, and ensure that negotiations work in a healthy manner. Whether he's part of the same party or the president of that party -- he may not be a party member -- the ministers coming here to be part of the political polemics... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President- Go ahead. ...and, for example, the fact that they stood up against the one-man regime and tried to insult the president of another political party's president shows that my group has the Deputy Leader of the Group, who can't defend its own Chief of Justice and Development Group, so that I can overcome my role, and I can defend Recep Tayyip Erdogan. And the mistake that was just made... If there's an insult, a taunt, a case to be answered according to 69, the task, the authority, the responsibility, the right, the Deputy Directors of the Group here, but they haven't had the right to say so yet, sir... it's already been published in the press that our Deputy Directors of the Group can give the answer.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0128par0151	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0127par0152	This shows that in the beginning, the group they entrusted the budget to was disturbed by their approach to the trust, that it lacked the necessary capacity to defend itself, that it felt unclaimed in this hall, that it became defensive, and that it adopted the language of insult and threat, as Mr. Naci Bostancı said, rather than the language of politics; this threat language produces another answer, and you're right about that. And if there cometh unto you a hearing whereof the answer is not necessary, ye will not see it from Us, but if there cometh unto you an answer, then those who say the like thereof will hear it with the like thereof. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0128par0154	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0129par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Three days ago here -- you know, it's been three days -- you were running it again.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0128par0158	That's right, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0129par0159	I specifically told you that the confusion here, the tensions here, the fact that one of the ministers sitting here is the groom, has a lot of effect. The AKP Group isn't as usual, and you don't manage as usual. I told you. In fact, when the Home Secretary arrives, see the festival in the neighborhood. We said, "God willing, it's Saturday." And that day is today.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0128par0160	That's what I said, yes.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0129par0161	Yes, you did. You're doing what you need to do right now. Our orator explained one testimony he lived with, without slandering anyone, without accusing anyone. And then, with a lot of anger from the AKP Group, with a lot of anger, there was a bomb under Mama Taybet's funeral, and somehow for a week, this bomb just wouldn't go off under this funeral.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0128par0163	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0129par0164	We have a variety of opinions about the fact that a funeral was left on the street for a week, that a 10-year-old girl's funeral was kept in refrigerators, and that a coup dynamic process was actually prepared at the time. Instead of sitting down and thinking about it -- thanks to your attitude -- the AKP tried to sabotage our friend with very different accusations so that our people wouldn't hear what he said. We'd like to say here that the AKP Group President should also be used in a kind language, a kind approach... a situation where the AKP is constantly involved. What is kindness, my friends? You're telling us not to say the words that will cover up all the cruel policies that you'll like. I'm sorry, you, with violence, pressure, especially right now, your current Minister wants to secure his seat with pressure, hatred, hatred of the Kurd.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0130par0167	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0131par0168	Is that a thing?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0132par0169	Yes, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0133par0170	If I stop, I'll fall off the couch. It's stuck tight. He won't allow it, HDP, we'll tell him one by one all your policies, all your massacres, all your actions!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0134par0172	No massacres!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0135par0173	Stop using Kurds. Think of the Kurds!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0136par0174	Did you get a message from Kandil?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0137par0175	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0138par0176	You will face each other one by one! Now, those of you who have broken up with you and have a party, you will pay for it. Wait for your day. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0139par0180	Mr. Secretary, after Operation Peace, they've lost their psychology; there's no need to answer that!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0140par0181	Think of the Kurds' collar!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0141par0182	Speak on the stand, speak on the stand!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0142par0183	Get up there and talk! Get up there and talk!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0143par0184	Friends, honorable MPs, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0144par0185	It's an epiphany of broken psychology!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0145par0186	Bravo!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0146par0187	Well, don't yell, then, don't shout. Don't shout, calm down!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0147par0188	Congressmans, please... Yes, dear MPs, the Vice Presidents of the Precious Group, I assure you here that I am trying to govern the bench and the General Assembly according to the Civil Code decrees. See, the representation of the execution is written in Article 62 of the Civil Code, and it is determined that the execution will be represented by the vice presidents and ministers. When you look at the Civil Charter 163, this is a decree that applies discipline. When you come to his final paragraph, the penalty for disintegration is also applied on the vice presidents and ministers, where the ministers are clearly marked by six disciplinary sentences of active participation in the General Assembly's work. Also, look, last year, on the first day of the budget talks, there was a speech made by Parliament Speaker Buli Yıldırım. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to read that speech one more time: Mr. MPs, regarding the status of ministers, I'd like to make a statement on some issues that have been mentioned in the talks from time to time. As you know, vice presidents and ministers in the presidential government system are appointed by the President of the Republic, among those who have the capacity to be elected MP in accordance with Article 106 of the Constitution. Under the same clause, the vice presidents and ministers are sworn before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is written in Article 81 of the Constitution. The MPs also take the same oath when they begin their duties. Again, according to Article 106, the vice presidents and ministers take advantage of the provisions concerning the immunity of the law in crimes that are not related to their duties, and in their crimes related to their duties, they are subject to parliamentary investigation. As it is known, it is possible to submit a motion for parliamentary investigation with the only majority of members -- 301 MPs -- with the signature of the full number of members in this procedure -- with the decision to open an investigation, with 3/5ths of the total number of members in the General Assembly, with 360 MPs. The transfer to the Supreme Court is carried out by the votes of two-thirds of the members and 400 MPs. It is not right to say that the ministers, appointed by the President of parliament, who are qualified to be elected MPs, who are sworn in by the General Assembly, who are subject to parliamentary immunity provisions, who are subject to their duties, and who are on an exceptional basis for parliamentary investigation. The absence of ministers in the new system is not a matter of hierarchy, it is a matter of preferential separation of tough forces. In accordance with the spirit of the presidential government system, the principle of separation of tough forces has been ruled in the Constitution, in which MPs appointed as ministers will end their membership in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The interpretation of a constitutional situation stemming from the government system as a subsidiary situation between ministers and MPs would be unfair to our MPs and to our ministers. Mr. Botanci, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0148par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0147par0197	Mr. Bostanci had a request for a word, Mr. Surkan, and I'll give you my word. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0149par0201	Mr. President, first of all, in brief, what we mean by politeness is, of course, not in the heart of PARTI. Mr. Survivor would appreciate that we would not make such a ridiculous and irrational request. Of course, by inverting that logic, Mr. Survivor would like to describe it as, "Do you think it's polite to speak in their own hearts?" But I don't want to think that. We all know what kindness is, it's that people can express their meanings in a language that will share their problems. Edward Said has a very good saying, not by being buried in their own groups, in their own parts, but if they can carry the suffering into the common context of mankind, then I think they can do a very meaningful and valuable job. It takes kindness, I assure you. That's the first one.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0147par0203	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0149par0204	Secondly, Mr. President, this language offends Kurds, Turks, people living in this geography, as there is no right, truthful, consistent language, etc., etc., etc. The right thing is: Can anyone in this country look at whatever group they feel in, whatever they see in, with a look that will penetrate the pain of the other side the most, and that's what matters. Again, I'll give you an example of Edward Said. At the end of his life, he was on a radio show in Israel, where he says: "I am the best Jew, because I have learned from the very heart that the fates of Arabs and Jews are shared in this land. "
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0147par0206	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0149par0207	...to act with a mind that offends the people, the people, and the people, and that you speak on behalf of them, in the first place, to avoid a language that offends the Kurds. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0147par0210	Mr. Survivor, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0150par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. If you want, Mr. Naci is a Survivor Kurd, he understands as much in Turkish as he knows.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0151par0215	Watch this!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0152par0216	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0150par0217	But I'll tell you this: there is no need for this kind of talk here yesterday. The AKP Group Deputy President said. It's something we meet every day, and we're not going to accept it, so let's just say that. Our criticism, Mr. President, is that when our minister was talking here, when he was talking about the bombing of this Assembly, you immediately got thrown out of there. You said, "The army didn't do it." Didn't the army give you any power? Don't we agree to that?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0153par0219	The Turkish army said.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0154par0220	We've discussed this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0150par0221	It's not your job to fix this. We refuse to allow you to lead our minister, HDP, everything he says, to move away, to the army, to the nation, to the country, to betray our state, to lead a perception, including you. The budget of the ministers we criticize is being discussed here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0154par0224	We had an argument here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0155par0225	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0150par0226	The ministers are offering their budget here, and we're discussing it. In the end, they come to them with the right of the Constitution, by the Law, and by authority, to make their explanations and to give them their answers. He has no right to interfere with an MP by making gestures from his seat. It's not, it's not, it's not. We're still behind this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0156par0227	Whatever you say!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0157par0228	He's gone too far, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0158par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0159par0230	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0158par0232	Mr. President, I have just received your word on the statement you made.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0159par0233	Yes, I have once again shared with you the text of the speech made by our last-term Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Buli Yıldırım.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0158par0234	Mr. President, that's exactly what I've been promised. Bülli Yıldırım is today's mission is the İzmir MP's office, not the Parliamentary Presidency.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0159par0236	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0158par0237	Even if he was the Speaker, a speech he made meant that he would present his views to the General Assembly in Parliament, but it is not possible that this speech would be treated as an approved verdict or a doctrine on the Civil Code, which he himself has established in the many-time sessions. On the contrary, he was nominated by a group of 291 MPs in the 600 national parliament, as a Parliamentary Speaker who was elected in the fourth round at the point where the treaty was never defined and was directly sided with, even because the seat was lost.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0159par0238	Are we going to discuss the Speaker of the House or are we going to discuss the text?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0158par0239	Mr. President, if you hadn't attributed such importance to that text and not to the knowledge of the General Assembly, as I've just described in the three definitions... It's obvious to me that the text doesn't matter anyway. Mr. Bali Yıldırım, who was elected in the fourth round, said that in a speech that day. It's valuable to its own archive, and it's a wealth for the Parliament archives, but it's 360 today, and I'd like to say that the number of amendments in parliament was 401, and that a 291 nationalist party left in the memory of the Izmir MP, and we completely rejected the text of wish and opinion that was never legally valid. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0159par0241	Thank you. It's not from the memorial, but I got it from the House transcripts, so let me put it this way. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the Batman MP Mehmet Rüç Tiryaqi is now in charge. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0160par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of our group on the Ministry of Interior budget. I salute you all. Before I share my views on the Ministry of Interior budget, I'd like to bring this up: The Ministry of Health's budget is being discussed today, and Batman has a request. Batman, of course, has as much problems as any city, and is having major problems. Batmans want democracy, and Batmans want the Kurdish problem to be resolved in democratic and peaceful ways. Batman also has unemployment, poverty, and Batman's unemployment rate is nearly twice the average in Turkey, around 27 per cent. But the Batmans want something else. Knowing that Batman has a very effective local press and you can ask any local press member or you can ask the leader of any opinion in Batman, or you can ask the director of a democratic mass organization -- they're running low, but you can ask anyone who voted for the EC PARK in Batman. I assure you, among the first three problems they will say, there will be a problem with the failure of Batman's 500-bed hospital in the first place. They're waiting for a solution to this problem that's back to the snake story. We're talking about a city of 450,000 people, still no local hospital, and he's not responding. There are people coming to Batman to get treatment from Mardin, from Bitlis, from Siirt, and Batman is an unresolved city, and I'd like to emphasize it once again. As for the interior ministry's budget, I told you in the commission that no matter how much you budget the interior ministry, it won't be enough. The budget will be short this year, just as it has been short in previous years, and the Ministry of Interior will be responsible for one-third of the deficit. Of course, there are many reasons why the Interior Ministry budget is increasing day by day, and one of those reasons is a security issue. There are security issues in many parts of the world, Turkey has security issues, there is a security problem in Turkey's region, but the problem is that Turkey's security problem and part of the region's security problem are the policies that the government itself runs. For example, Turkey is the almost direct side of the civil war in Syria; it finances and finances directly and politically finances several groups that want to overthrow the government. Look, it's been in the press, and people in these organizations say they've been paid by Turkey, and even Turkey has taken them under some kind of social security umbrella, and when they die, their families are being given cash, financial aid, and they know very well what the amount of it is. Just last week, you signed an agreement with the controversial Libyan government. It's unfortunate that all parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, except for our group, have approved this controversial agreement. That's a statement. When you have trouble with Hafter the day after tomorrow, we'll remind you again, don't worry, there are many examples. Again, you have established an unusual relationship between the government of Mursi and the two countries. Then you resisted the coup, you followed a correct policy, but your relationship with the Mursi government has come to a point where Turkey has almost no official relationship with Egypt anymore. Yes, Turkey is having a security problem, Turkey is having a regional security problem, but the source of this regional and national security problem is the policies run by your government itself. So, are these wrong, wrong foreign policies just about the policies you run abroad? Of course not. Your domestic policies also create a security problem. There's no need to go too far, but how did the organization, which was said to be behind the July 15 coup attempt, infiltrate the police force, all the governorates, every department of the criminal organization, almost all the institutions of the state, or how did it end up floating? Isn't the interior security ministry of the EC PARTY, which is responsible for the security of the country, the Ministry of Interior? The fact that the Kurdish problem has not been resolved by democratic and peaceful policies, we are fighting terror day and night with Hamasi speeches. Isn't the continuation of security policies ever a security issue in Turkey? The policies you run inside and out are the source of the security problem as a whole. Yeah, these policies you're running are causing a budget deficit, but they're causing a much bigger deficit besides the budget deficit. You know what? It leads to a democracy deficit. Your policies are creating a democracy gap in this country. On November 20th, when the Interior Ministry budget was being discussed, I tried to convey to the Plan and Budget Commission how to remember the Interior Minister, how to commemorate these policies of this government when my tongue turned. Between November 20th and December 14th -- not yet a month -- what happened, I'll tell you in a few headlines. Many people have been taken into custody in Antwerp, in Kopeli, in Van, in Ağrı, in Diyarbakir, in Batman, and dozens of others have been arrested. Almost all of them were active political figures in our party. And do you know what they were accused of when they were taken into custody? They were accused of participating in the activities of the Democratic Society Congress. What is it? The Democratic Society Congress was established by order of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). So, what did our friends do? They've had open meetings for everyone, for everyone. The district and county managers of the AK PARTY were also present at these meetings. Your deputies attended these meetings. These meetings are open to everyone. The president of this country's Grand National Assembly of Turkey also wrote to the Democratic Society Congress and asked for their views on the Constitution. Why am I saying this now? It doesn't matter what you say, it doesn't matter what you do; it's the government's decision, it's the only measure. It's not the law, it's not your measures, it's not your verbs, it's not what you say; it's the government's decision, that's it. Oh, sometimes you do this to other countries, but the son of the hand doesn't accept it like we do. The last time you pretended to veto the decision made for the safety of the Baltic countries, you said, "You're either terrorists or we'll veto the decision." What happened, did you veto the decision? No. So, did the countries in front of you call the organizations you call terrorists? No, they didn't. So you can't fool the son of a hand like a poor citizen of this country. When you say Germany, France, England and myself, it doesn't happen, does it? [[Applause from HDP rows]] And I'll tell you something else, look, I'm telling you the last-term app: no house that goes into custody is expected to open; all doors break down, no exceptions, all doors break down. All the doors break down before ten seconds, and then those doors get built for someone, who? Even the people you're going to build the doors to are close to power. There's a government out there that's trying to make money out of people who'll be taken into custody. Look, all over the world, women went out on the streets to protest harassment, rape, and women's murders, protesting with their dances, and they were watched by hundreds of millions, maybe billions of people, this protest activity was appreciated, everyone tried to take their part, except one country. This protest took place in dozens of countries around the world, thousands of people attended, billions of people watched; women in one country, one country, could not dance, women could not perform protests. Yes, in Turkey, in Turkey, where Mr. Noble was responsible for domestic security, women were unable to perform the protest of the entire world; this is how you will go down in history. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to give you an example of how the government is fighting terrorism; just one example, which occurred ten days ago on December 4th: a police officer in the district of lice of Diyarbakır, a police station commander and three soldiers were caught with drugs during road control; eight kilograms of drugs were caught in the vehicle of police commander and three specialist sergeants.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0161par0307	He's probably got one of yours, one of yours.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0160par0308	Later, these soldiers were taken into custody and decided to be arrested by the court. When their testimony was taken, they said that they had been doing it for a long time, and they gave the names of their associates. Now, the governor made a press release, he never mentioned these soldiers, he didn't mention that 8 kilograms of drugs were captured in soldiers, you know what he said? As part of Operation Kiran-5, we are operating to demonstrate the concrete link between the separatist terrorist organization and the illegal drug production and traffickers in the southern region of lice. Who had an affair with who, who had an affair with who? There were soldiers and commanders behind the drug trade in lice, but the governor doesn't talk about police officers or soldiers, he says there's a relationship between illegal organisations and the people or the traffickers. See, that's what you guys understand about counterterrorism. You're just creating manipulation, and the public thinks you're really struggling with something. Look, yesterday there was a very important unsolved murder case, one of the most important files in our recent history. This was an investigation launched by a confessor, a special ops cop named Ayhan Wheel. The first thing that was done at that time was this: "This is a certain meczup, this is a certain mental illness. " Of course, Ayhan decided that the Wheel of Justice was in place. It took many years for this trial to be decided in court yesterday, all the defendants were acquitted, all the defendants were not punished as a result of the investigation. We're not saying that these unsolved murders took place during your administration. We're not saying that the AK PARTI governments are responsible for these JITEM murders. But you're carrying on this non-punishment policy. Your support for this punishment policy, your support for the resolution of these investigations, is only encouraging to those who committed this murder and those who are planning to commit it in the future. So don't forget, you'll be perceived as an accomplice to these murders. We're trying to explain these injustices, these illegalities when our language turns. I also told you in the Plan and Budget Commission that the Interior Minister will come again, and he will say, "We will fight terror to the end." He will say, "We will fight until the last terrorist dies." he will say.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0162par0311	Don't you think?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0160par0312	He'll say, "We've killed a thousand people, we've killed three thousand people." They're all human beings, remember, friends. The growth of numbers doesn't make anyone successful, remember that. No war has ever had numbers that determine the outcome in any conflict.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0163par0314	There's a war on terror.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0164par0315	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0160par0316	Look, I'm going to give you just one example, no mistakes in analogy: 60,000 American soldiers died during the American war in Vietnam. Do you know how many millions of Vietnamese have died? 3 million Vietnamese, 10,000, 100,000, not 500,000, 3 million Vietnamese.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0164par0318	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0160par0319	But what happened? America had to leave Vietnam with that Vietnam syndrome.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0165par0320	Don't dream like that.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0160par0321	So, when we're talking about a problem, a solution to a problem, please don't let anyone say we've killed so many people, we'll kill until the last one is left, we'll kill until the last one is left.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0166par0323	We will destroy our soldier, the terror that slaughtered our teacher.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0167par0324	For once, can a man defend a terrorist? What kind of conscience are you arguing with?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0160par0325	This can't be a success, guys. I'm saying please don't think of people's lives as numbers. I salute the House.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0168par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0169par0329	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0168par0332	Mr. President, at the end of the HDP speaker's speech, let there be no mistake.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0170par0333	That's ridiculous.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0171par0334	He said something about a dream.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0168par0335	... America's own ideals, in line with its own goals -- even in line with the imperialistic empiricals -- have made an assessment of the Vietnam War of the World's War on Dominance, and have tried to evaluate this assessment at the same distance as Turkey's current fight against terrorism. He said, "Let there be no error in his heart. " It's impossible to accept. Such metaphors are subtle metaphors. These are metaphors made for specific purposes, and they are particularly sought to be spoken on these platforms under the roof of the House. That's not acceptable.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0172par0337	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0168par0338	These are not metaphors or expressions to be accepted. The state of the Republic of Turkey is currently fighting a brutal battle against threats and threats to its own nation, attacks. Let me tell my master that no one will try to equate this struggle with the struggles of imperialism in other Geography, tens of thousands of miles away, in other lands, in the lands of other nations. We're in the middle of a life-and-death struggle right now. No one in Turkey can object to the state of the Republic of Turkey's fight against terrorists and the disarming of terrorists. They're not human beings, they're human criminals. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0173par0341	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0174par0342	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0173par0344	Thank you, Mr. President. The only task of the DP here... is that when you take your word from HDP, you feel another group's presence here, and other than that, we think it's just a little bit of oxygen consumption. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) I mean, they don't seem to have any assets, legislation and control activities. Therefore, the fingers of the MPP shall be lifted up against the AKP, and they shall not work against us, and he shall know it well.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0175par0347	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0176par0348	Yes, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0175par0350	Here, praise God, we consume oxygen from its halaline. (MHP and AK PARTY) With the support of this nation, with the support of the Turkish nation, we contribute to what needs to be done for the benefit of this country, and we say what we see is wrong. Turkey's taking another stance on the terms I've just expressed can't be a genius in terms of the National Movement Party. Our problem, our problem, our objection, is that even though there are so many acts of terror in Turkey, even though there are so many blood and tears, those who can't say that in Turkey still consume oxygen for no reason.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0177par0352	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0176par0353	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0177par0355	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, this is the establishment of the will of our beloved nation. Here, the direction our nation has set for Parliament is only a route. See, there's no mistake in comparison. There's a mistake like honey, but there are the right places, what's this: the only analogy in the U.S.-Vietnam analogy is the U.S. side. See, right now, in the Middle East, those who planted seeds of fitness in our geography, seeds of betrayal, oil, weapons and interest meant Kurds, Arabs, Turks, Ezidis, Keldanis, Nasturis, peace, peace, peace, and then Vietnam. However they have received the answer, God willing, they will receive the answer from the state of the Republic of Turkey and from our beloved nation, ignore it as much as you want, block your ears as much as you want.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0178par0359	Mr. Özkan, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0177par0360	Look what the President of the United States said: we've secured oil wells and oil companies.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0179par0361	He also sent me a letter.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0177par0362	Who's right? There, Kurds and Arabs in Deyrizor are trying to capture what is rightfully due to the Turkmen living in that geography, but only to their use today, through PKK terrorism, through ISIS terror, through the test seeds they planted in the DEAS terror. Look, our struggle is the battle of the Beka, the future and the future of our country.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0180par0364	Seat... chair... chair... you've got nothing else to worry about.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0177par0365	It is the struggle of Kurds, Arabs and Turks to live in peace, and we will continue this struggle forever, by the will of God.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0181par0367	What did you do with the letter? What happened to the letter?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0182par0368	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0183par0370	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, it was exciting that the Vice President of the Justice and Development Party defended Vietnam in the face of American imperialism; of course, we were delighted that he defended Ho Chi Minh. (APPLAUSE) So it's credible? You're doing everything you can to meet Trump, phones, middlemen, lobbying... all of this so we can get a meeting. It's not enough that you do this, but a letter comes to you, and you swallow it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0184par0372	Who did 33,000 trucks give the gun to? Who did 33,000 trucks give the gun to?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0183par0373	Now, after that, you go, you do the interview, you hand out beautiful pictures side by side, arm by arm, and then you come and talk about Trump and America in this nation's Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0185par0374	You're playing three monkeys.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0183par0375	Either the President and the person who is also your President are deceiving you, or you're fooling the public with your speeches here, or you're fooling the public with your conversations here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0186par0377	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0183par0378	I'm completing it, sir. I mean, don't people see it, for God's sake? I can see that. Now, it's not like you're gonna find some kind of cover-up and tell me what a great job you're doing in North East Syria. So the spear doesn't fit in the sack, it doesn't really fit, and we've seen it doesn't fit, and you've seen it recently. So Lavrov concluded the invasion attempt you started, Lavrov, does that suit you? He made a statement in the evening. He said, "It's over. You explained it the next morning. It's over." Now, so we're going to discuss your wrongs in foreign policy and domestic policy, and we're going to criticize you, and you're going to answer, okay, but don't be so offended. And when you answer, please don't turn around and try to blame it all on other sides, as if it weren't your faults. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0187par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0188par0384	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0187par0386	Mr. President, the precious lawmakers are, of course, an operation adopted by the international community and international law and fully supported by our nation for the sake of our country, for the sake of our national peace and security. There is no debate on this issue, but please, we ask you to look at the big game -- many terrorist organizations like PKK terror organizations have passed through this fragmented geography, from North Africa to Yemen, all the way to the Balkans. What's left? Blood and tears are left to the peoples of the region. Now, they're using the terror organization again, using thousands of trucks.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0188par0389	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0187par0390	For him, right now, the U.S.A. also exists in its own lobby. A structure that couldn't account for 9/11, which had been planted by itself again into its own people, is now trying to regrow treason in the Middle East. Look, you know very well, tomorrow the Kurds, Arabs and Turks will have to pay for the seeds of persecution planted in this geography -- God forbid -- for hundreds of years. (HDP rows of noise) And tomorrow, these seeds of betrayal cause blood and tears to reign again in this geography.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0189par0391	You don't speak on purpose.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0187par0392	So, don't support the treachery, terrorism that exists to support oil companies, interest lobbying and gun barons, be with your people in national and domestic politics.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0189par0393	You can't say that!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0190par0394	You can't fool anyone by calling them Terror.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0191par0395	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0189par0396	You are the ones who support terrorism, you are the ones who support ISIS! You are the ones who feed on ISIS!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0192par0397	The whole world knows about the weapons you sent.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0193par0398	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0194par0399	You're the one who's leaning on terror! You're the one who's using the Kurdish people! Let them go, let them go!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0195par0400	You were working with DEASH.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0196par0401	Don't talk! You're a big man! You're a man of days! You've had your day, you've come forward shamelessly, you're picking on me!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0195par0402	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0196par0403	You've been through a lot. Are you a child? You're packing, you're coming from behind, you're picking on me.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0195par0404	I treat people with psychological disorders like you!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0197par0405	Mr. Ironbone... Mr. Oluç, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0198par0408	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, of course, this has gone beyond the Home Office, we've come to the State Department, but since you've started, let's continue. Now, really, your Deputy Director of the Group said something like this yesterday, but you, the international community and international institutions, are standing up for what you're doing, go ahead, we support you, we're with you. We don't know, we don't know, because we've lived the opposite way, the whole world has lived the opposite. All international institutions and organizations, including the United Nations, NATO, the European Union -- all of these institutions and organizations have criticised your practices. And he said one more thing...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0199par0412	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0200par0413	Tell me about him!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0198par0414	The remnant of this ISIS, El Nusra, al-Qaeda remains not in favor of the wars and crimes committed by the OSO or the national Syrian army, he said. When they say "Turkey," they mean power. Now, therefore, in a situation like this, how do you explain the exact opposite to this community, which is not understandable, but it's the way you do it, obviously.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0200par0416	Tell me about the PKK, the PKK...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0198par0417	Now, sir, the second thing we want to point out to you from the very beginning -- we don't tell you now -- is that we've been neighbors with the peoples in Syria for hundreds of years, from the time you've been involved in the power struggle through your deputy organizations here -- I don't mean the civil war in Syria, we've been living together for hundreds of years. Because we're neighbors, there should be no blood, no tears, no fitness. On the contrary, a peace policy must be made...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0200par0419	Tell that to the PKK.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0201par0420	Complete, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0198par0421	I'm completing it, sir. On the contrary, Turkey should be a centre of peace in the Middle East, a centre of democracy, it should be attracted from here, and that's the only way to make a strong state, and that's the only way to make a strong country. You went, you dived into a civil war next door, and now you say, "Who made the match?" The people who lived there, Arabs, Turks, Ezidians, Kurds, people who lived in Northeast Syria, they lived together in peace. Why do you interfere with your neighbor's people who live together in peace?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0202par0423	You're dreaming, you're dreaming!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0198par0424	Now, therefore, we need to discuss all these problems.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0202par0425	You're twisting things, you're twisting things.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0198par0426	You can't get over it by being such a eunuch. Turkey, the whole nation, is now facing a lot of problems because of your wrong policies, both in terms of internal problems and external problems. Yeah, we've got zero friends everywhere! What in God's name is this? That's your policy, you did it!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0203par0428	Finish your words, please, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0198par0429	I'm completing it, sir. I mean, right now, I was gonna give you an example, but if you don't want me to give it to you, I'll tell you another time, so don't take too much time. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0204par0432	Thank you. Mr. Special, here, I'll take yours.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0205par0435	Mr. President, I've got Adana MPs behind me. They applied to you, but you said it could be in the question-answer section as part of the budget talks. In short, I would like to address their concerns with the attention of Parliament, the constant notifications of our two non-guarded deputies from Adana, and a request from the Adana tradesmen. I hope the Home Secretary's presence will be an opportunity to address the problem in this regard. Now, there has been a festival in Adana since 2010; no one has received a penny; neither the municipality nor the ministry of tourism. A million people are coming to Adana, and all the streets of Adana are turning into a festival at the Kebab and the turnip Festival. So far, not a single significant event has happened. Hotels are full, hotels in neighboring provinces are full. They've just spoken, they've transmitted; the shopkeepers are crying on the phone. Last year, the governor's office banned this festival, but the festival was actually held.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0204par0438	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0205par0439	In a few days, a million people arrive, exchange money, and everyone is smiling in Adana. The governorship banned it again this year, and everyone thought it would be like last year, but from last year's actual celebration, the governor's office will have learned a lesson from the police, so he piled up TOMA, pulled anchors everywhere. Instead of that kebab smoke, the smell of gas is crying over the phone. What are we going to do with all this meat? What are we going to do with all this preparation? They're sorry, they're sorry, they're sorry. Reason is the same sentence as last year: terror, security. There was no incident last year. Such an ancient civilization, such a powerful state, a government that doesn't leave ashes in a barbecue, in a province like Adana, where beautiful people from all over Turkey can eat the kabab for one day and not be able to make them enjoy themselves there.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0204par0442	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0205par0443	Let's say next year everything will be all right. No one will go to Adana. Cheap plane tickets from months ago, extra bus flights are full, Adana is waiting for today... for example, in another country, the Ministry of Culture would encourage it. If we give him a little support, he'll take an international turn. This is a really big mistake; it needs to be interfered with. It is not known how much our word is appreciated, but I urge the ruling party's MPs, the Adana MPs of the National Movement Party, which Mr. Minister highly valued, to inform the Minister, who has confirmed that we are trying to express the matter without any political involvement. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0206par0447	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0207par0448	Mr. Tanal, you know, we don't use words based on 60. I'm very sorry.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0206par0449	It's a very important matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0207par0450	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the final speaker is Mr. Light... By the way, Mr. Secretary, if you're going to make a statement about this Adana kebab, can I promise you after Mr. Mensur? If you have a statement about this kebab, about the festival, I promise you after the speech.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0208par0452	Okay.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0209par0453	It's not a kebab, sir. It's a curfew.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0210par0454	Festival, festival!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0211par0455	Here you go, Mr. Light. [[Applause from HDP rows]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0212par0503	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the budget of 2020 of the Ministry of Interior and its relevant units. I salute you and our people who are watching the screens. Dear friends, dear friends, I would like to address the main reasons for our discussion here today, in fact, the main reasons for many recent events in the country. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, at the opening of the Erzurum Congress, we Turks and Kurds met here for the law of two nations and two peoples. This Parliament acted with a truth that accepted the name of Kurdish and Kurdish geography.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0213par0506	Where the hell is Kurdistan?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0212par0507	Dear friends, the Constitution of 1921 was, in the same way, made with a rational mind on the existence of two peoples and a decentralized system. But today, for example, Smurf Tosun, 16, was lynched and killed by six people in Sakarya for speaking Kurdish. For example, Ekrem Eğil is being treated with his wife at March 18, University Hospital, while she is being hit by another patient's companion for speaking Kurdish with her husband, dear friends, because she has been left out of her mind. In the same way, after his brother died in prison as a politician in the city of Blush Liz, Aydın Kaya wrote a Kurdish sentence on his grave (...x) so we won't forget you. Since he wrote an inscription, he would not have been hostile to Kurdish, and that gravestone would not have been broken, dear friends. In the same way, if that mind hadn't been abandoned, the Minister of the Interior would not have appointed trustees to HDP's Kurdish municipalities and 28 municipalities today, and 18 of our co-mayors would not have been arrested. Since that mind was abandoned... Dear friends, in the same way, since he's been left out of his mind, he's here six years ago in Mardin as the leader of the Democratic Party of the Interior Minister, who is the cause of all these unlawfulities, murders, deaths.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0214par0509	Icony...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0212par0510	▪ Turkey must face its past. I also said it in the palaces of the land, and in the fields of the land, and in the streets of the land, and in the streets of the south, and in the south, and in the south, and in the south, and in the south, and in the west, and in the south, and in the south, and in the south, and in the south, and in the south, Unless Turkey faces the issue of Sheikh Sait, as long as it doesn't face the issue of the will courts, unless it confronts what happened in Sivas and Madimakamak, in the 21st century, modernisation, enrichment, democratization, freedom is difficult; that's what I think. I believe Turkey has three basic problems. Likewise, it is not possible to build a new constitution until the Kurdish problem is resolved. Because many issues will come from the definition of citizenship to the definition of identity, language to the question of Kurdish...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0214par0511	Right.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0212par0512	...that Mr. Noble wouldn't give a speech. Likewise, if the spirit of 1920 had not been abandoned, as we say, the spirit of 1921, the nobleman would not have returned from his views. Dear friends, since Mr. Noble had returned from those views, the state's mind would not have spent 500 billion dollars and a trillion dollars in the war of thirty-five years -- as the building Yıldırım had said a few years ago -- because the government had turned away from them. Dear friends, look, 50,000 of our people -- Kurdish, Turkish, military, police, Kurdistan Workers' Party -- were not to be buried under these lands because they had returned from those views. Dear friends, there's only one thing that can save us, look, I'll say it again from here...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0215par0515	The government will kick your ass!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0212par0516	First of all, no one here is a master, and we are not slaves. Let everyone know that. Let everyone know that. You'll know your place.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0216par0518	And you are not representatives of the Kurds. Don't pretend you're a Kurdish representative.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0212par0519	Dear friends, there is only one thing that will save us, and I repeat, there is only one thing that will save us: Mr. Nobleman's remarks as President of the Democratic Party six years ago are important; President Erdoğan's statements in that process we call the process of solution; shall I go back a little further? The dialogue that Ozal started with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) twenty-seven years ago. I'm going back a little further. What will save us, dear friends, is that Solomon Demirel, in 1994, we, my friends, have been trying to assimilate it for a hundred years, and that's no longer the way to find another mind, that's not the way to solve the problem.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0217par0521	Compound your words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0212par0522	I am, Mr. President. Mr. President... here you go. The only thing that will save us is the spirit of the Constitution of 1921, dear friends. What will save us is what Ataturk said in Erzurum Congress. We Turks and Kurds started out as two nations, peoples, the rights of the people. Otherwise, nothing will save us. Otherwise, this mind, the mind that denies Kurds, the mind that tries to assimilated, will divide this country. I salute you all with love, dear friends.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0218par0527	Ataturk says, "Bolshevism, wherever you see communism, crush its head." He says, "Ataturk says."
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0212par0528	Don't be disrespectful.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0218par0529	Ataturk says so. Ataturk: Wherever you see communism, crush its head.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0219par0530	That's not true, Mr. President. For God's sake... There is no such thing as Ataturk, sir, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0218par0531	We're talking about Ataturk. Ataturk says so. Nobody says anything to you, you sit down and don't take it personally, dear.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0220par0532	Get a hold of him!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0218par0533	They used everything, including Ataturk, that's enough!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0221par0534	Mr. Zülfü... Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0222par0538	Mr. President, we now reject the issues expressed by the HDP MP on the stand from the beginning to the end, so let's first express it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0223par0539	We're not surprised.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0222par0540	You won't be surprised, you won't be surprised. We know what you're saying, and we know what we're saying. Thank God. Now, if these conversations don't get interrupted, it's all gonna go away with these lies, these lies. Now, in relation to Sakarya, you're saying that our brother Smurf Tossun was murdered because he was Kurd. Earlier, the family of a brother I knew who had been living there for years, who had claimed to have been killed because he was a Kurd, who had been living there for years, and who I had known personally, had nothing to do with the Anadolu Agency, and the murder had nothing to do with him. Now, it turns out that part of the group that carried out that attack on the other side and caused the severe injury was also of Kurdish origin.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0224par0543	We're not from origin, we're Kurds.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0222par0544	No, no, he's got records; it's in the investigation file, it's open.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0225par0546	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0222par0547	Now, in a joke like this, who could have killed who because they were Kurdish? How can you say these lies from this council stand, these slanders, and how can you express them without having no regard for them, and not bowing your head to them in any way, no wonder. Don't do this, don't divide this country. You're trying to manipulate Turkey. See, in particular, you're always trying to manipulate it in relation to Sakarya. The province of Sakarya is one of the most sensitive cities in Turkey, where people from all over come together from the Balkans to the west, from the Balkans to the Caucasus. We know what your purpose is here, but we will not fall into that trap by God's leave. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0226par0551	Mr. Survivor...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0227par0553	Mr. President, we're not here to slander the people of Sakarya, their people. Unfortunately, not only in Sakarya, but in many parts of Turkey, we know that Kurds have been stopped for speaking Kurdish on the streets, in the streets, in the workplaces.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0228par0555	That's not true! You're lying!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0226par0556	Friends, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0229par0557	That's not true! They're clearly slandering me!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0230par0558	In our teacher's example, when she was being treated in a hospital, all the newspapers wrote and drew that she had been exposed to lychee. Facing this, Mr. Nightingale must take measures, fight against these more cases, especially in Sakarya -- these racist initiatives that are already there -- while he is in charge of them.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0231par0559	What a racist! You're the racist, you are!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0230par0560	As a substitute, I'd like to remind you of your duty. Otherwise, we can't deal with these problems by covering it up.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0232par0561	Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0233par0562	Mr. President, thank you very much, sir. In order to avoid damaging the main agenda of the meeting and not disrupting its initiative, I have been far away from being involved in these discussions, but it has been seen that my party's need to express both my views and my personal opinions in the face of these statements have become essential. The speaker of the People's Democratic Party, referring to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our republic's Bani, as he testified on the stand, stated that we had established this republic, the country, the nation together, or that we had gathered that congress jointly. There's no way to completely deny it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0234par0565	Whoo!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0233par0566	If you'll excuse me, sir, you said something, and I'm telling you. I didn't refuse, so why are you reacting?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0235par0568	Please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0233par0569	However, Gazi Mustafa Kemal continued to fight to unite the Anatolian and Rumeli Defence-i Law Leagues and then fight to fight the Liberation War, while the Kurdish Teali League, established in Diyarbakır in 1908, was trying to put dynamite on the basis of Turkey's unity and unity. Today, it appears, and it turns out that while one group is trying to secure Turkey's unity and unity, another is displaying the ability to be the continuation of this community, which was established in 1908, while another has performed a different mission in 1919. It has to be known and changed in absolute form. I told him to go on the record. Long live Turkey, long live the Republic of Turkey. The people who founded the Republic know how to keep it alive. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0236par0574	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0237par0576	Sir, there's a need to rephrase. Events in Sakarya are not racist attacks. I strongly deny that, that this is not happening, that this is slander. The burden of proving that this is yours, but all the facts, all the concrete reality, show that this is not the case.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0238par0577	If it's not an attack, what is it?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0237par0578	Other than that, it's out of the question. You're saying that people are exposed to certain things because they speak Kurdish when they're loaded. It's not a time when we're dealing with something like this. We know who's in this town and what's in it, and we know what's in it for you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0239par0581	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0240par0582	Mr. Survivor...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0239par0584	Thank you, Mr. President. We propose that all groups present a research proposal right after the budget to investigate the problem, so let's take it down, let's discuss it together, let's settle it like this. Mr. President, let's not put too much pressure on your patience. We've always said here the democratic solution to the Kurdish problem. When we look at the recent history, we know that Ozal is this directional initiative, we know that there is an attempt by Erbakan, and we know that there are some of Erbakan's initiatives, and there are some of the most recent attempts by parties that we have described as the best work the AKP has ever done to the nation, the most useful work it has ever failed to complete. We know that even Tansu Chiller, who gives the most speeches, says, "I'm going to finish." We know that even Tansu Chiller is talking about a Basque model. Erdogan spoke at a group meeting on November 19, 2013, friends.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0241par0590	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0239par0591	Pointing to these articles, pointing to secret subpoenas, he says to lawmakers: "Let the MPs read the first parliamentary reports, the secret subpoenas, and they will first see the word "Kurt" in the statements of Gazi Mustafa Kemal. They will see the word "Kurt" in that parliament. They'll see the words "Laz" and "Arab" and "Bosnak" in those articles, and they'll see the word "Kurdistan" in those Parliament records. He says nothing but ignorance and darkness, who doesn't know his own history, who doesn't read it. When they go back to the Ottoman province, they will see that the eastern and southeast is the province of Kurdistan, and the eastern Black Sea is the province of Lazistan. These are the legacy of our history, which you can't ignore. He said in his group speech on May 19, 2013, Recep Erdogan. Now, that's what we call getting out of the state mind. It's not every time the HDP, the government in the 1921 period shouts its mind here for nothing. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0241par0593	Thank you. Dear MPs, the demands of the People's Democratic Party Group have been met. The Minister has a request for a statement. Mr. Noble, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0242par0598	Mr. President, thank you very much. Congressmans, the Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group just had a question about Kebab and the turnip Festival, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer it. There is no festival in Adana at this time called the Kebab Festival and the turnip Festival. Why not? If you'll excuse me, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0243par0600	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0242par0601	Unfortunately, I don't know how many traditions we have here in 2015, here in 2019, this must be the festival you're talking about: the Adana world raki festival. Now, the governor's ban on this raki festival is at stake. I think they may have turned the matter back into Kebab and the turnip Festival after they put a ban on this raki festival. Again, not long ago -- and I don't think you're talking about that -- there was an Adana Tasset Festival, which was attended by all of Adana, which was a cultural station, just like you said. The festival was held on October 4th and 6th, when all of Adana's NGOs attended the event. It's done every year, and it's done splendidly every year, but I think there's a lack of information. If it is a raki festival, the Adana Governor has banned it last year, and this year it has been banned. Not in our traditions, not in our customs, not in our grandmothers, not in any way. But after the curfew, I don't know if it's back to Kebab and the turnip Festival. I have one more sentence, Mr. President, and I need to correct a financial error.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0244par0603	Come in, come in, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0242par0604	The speaker just said I was at the Democratic Party six years ago, and I was at the Democratic Party ten and a half years ago. I said those words, but they're pre-existing. I'm saying those words today. Why do I say it? Because today, the pit that was just defended, the barricades, the same reason we've come across in this country, the same way we've come across July 15th, the same day we've built our beautiful republic and been united, and we've faced this process completely. If we don't understand this process well, if we can't explain it well to our future generations, then we can face the same things. I've said it over and over and over again, and I'm completely behind those words. Look, there was just a sentence here that said: "This state has committed a massacre. Look -- what you are here -- the pits and barricades are the ones that have earned the hatred of our citizens living in East and southeast, and you and I know that the people who live there, the tribes, the people who live in the city, the Kurdistan Workers' Party have given a huge punishment for the pits, the barricades. The letters, the evaluations, the conversations that have been held have also shown that the PKK has paid a very clear price to the people there. One: Now, we do not find it very right to bring this pit into the state of the barricades, what the PKK has long tried to do as it was supposed to do, and to bring legitimacy to one of the greatest evils that can be done to our Kurdish brothers in this country, east and southeast, into the state; this is wrong. Two: The many times spoken here, many times before me, our beloved Minister Efkan AIak, said here, and tried to do it with all the understanding of the state, where these people died, these people died; these people were killed. No state, no state, no government, no government, no government officer, and no state, can do such a thing on behalf of the state's behalf and the state's decision, even though they have not been charged. She can make a mistake on her own, and I'm not saying that about her. But other than that, it is not possible for us to agree to confront and confront Turkey with such total carnage. I'll tell you one more thing, whether your daughter is angry or not: Your performance will not be accepted by the PKK; I'll make it very clear. (AK PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) Please accept it. You're gonna have to get that performance up a little bit. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0245par0608	Your performance will be accepted from the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0246par0609	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0247par0610	Mr. Dervisoglu had a request, but Mr. Dervisoglu, the subject is kebab and turnip; first let me give it to Mr. Private, and then I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0248par0611	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0247par0612	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0249par0614	Mr. President was the candidate of the Cumhur Alliance in this period, although he did not bring a financial burden directly to the mayor of the capital city, he was the mayor of the city at the time of Aytaç Durak in 2010, and he was again named after the Huseyin Oral, who had been elected from the MHP in 2014, who was owned -- who was also the candidate for the Cumhur Alliance in this period, and I don't know what you're trying to describe as the festival of Cumhur, although he was now the mayor of the city -- since there had been no negative issues at this festival and since 2015.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0250par0615	I don't describe it, it's here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0249par0616	I'll tell you two things. My concern is: For example, your Adana MPs can't go and defend that attitude to the Adana tradesman; it's not right. That's how the sages hear who stands in the way of their bread and their food today. And second of all, you're going to say, well, you're going to say,
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0251par0619	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0249par0620	I don't know how many traditions we have. And frankly, without hesitation, I don't discuss your privacy either.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0252par0621	Raki festival.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0249par0622	There is no raki in the electoral tradition represented by many in this Parliament, and it is in the tradition of many. There is no understanding of Islam in Anatolia, as ISIS dictated. (CHP) No one's ever eaten...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0252par0623	Raki festival, I said.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0249par0624	I'm not saying this for another reason. Listen. Well, if you'll excuse me, I've listened to you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0253par0625	Mr. Secretary, give me an answer, Mr. Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0249par0627	In Anatolia, there is also a different sense of Anatolian Islam, which does not interfere in its neighbor's way of life, who doesn't interfere in his clothing, who doesn't care about what he eats, who shares his own good day, who doesn't count the two double rakis he drinks, who don't count the bingo he plays at Christmas, who don't do any of them, who are more conservative, who don't do any of them.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0253par0629	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0249par0630	We, the Minister of the State, or the MPs, have no history of it, we have no history of it... We don't say anything to the non-drinker, we don't say anything to the drinker. We stand for all kinds of freedoms, no interruptions, no interference in someone else's freedom, no influence in someone else's way of life. If somewhere people are afraid to say "rakı" your job is to intervene in the way of life. And I reject that to the end. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0253par0633	Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0254par0635	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have the desire to say a few words based on the statements of Peoples' Democratic Party Deputy Leader, Mr. Surhan. Now, I didn't say there weren't Kurds in that convention. In that period, it was not possible to talk about Kurdistan or Lazistan. I did not say that. I don't deny historical facts. I know, and I'm sure the Erzurum Congress is called the Congress of Erzurum, which we know as the Erzurum Congress, is called the Congress of the Sharkyite of the Province, and it is the People of the Nation representing those Kurdistan delegates who attended that convention. Now, I've made it clear that there was a group of people at the time who were trying to solve national issues, but also the Kurdish Teali Society.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0255par0640	Please wrap it up, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0254par0641	I mean, there's another political structure that has set up a road map to harm national unity and unity.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0255par0642	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0254par0643	The fact that you responded to the President's statements was also the reason that I didn't smile, if you want to know the truth. You're right, perhaps you'll be interested in different statements from time to time, but I'm not one of those people who learns from historical dramas and religion, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0255par0645	Mr. Nightingale asked for a very short word. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0256par0648	Mr. President, CHP Deputy Group President Mr. Specile has just been made a statement by the National Movement Party municipality -- Mr. Hüseyin Orallü -- that has been supported by this festival in the past. At this point, now, we exchanged information with him over the phone. As Mayor of the Metropolitan City of the National Movement Party, at the time, the Mayor of the Metropolitan Municipality supported neither his organization nor the matter...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0257par0649	We didn't say the city organized it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0258par0650	We said it wasn't Madden.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0256par0651	So, what do we need to understand when you say that the mayor of the city has supported it? So, the Mayor of the Metropolitan has no support; other than that, he said the public has no support. Through social media, he said there was a festival organised by civil society among himself and that the current Metropolitan Municipality officially does not support it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0258par0653	That's right.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0259par0654	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0260par0655	If you will complete your words, Mr. Nightingale. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0261par0657	That's the way the information is, I wanted to fix it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0260par0658	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0262par0659	That's right, that's right, Mayor, thank you. That's right.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0263par0660	Mr. President, I'm very short...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0260par0661	I promise, Mr. Survivor. Dear Vice Presidents, let's get back to budget negotiations, please. Mr. Survivor, I promise you one last time. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0264par0666	Okay, Mr. President, thank you. While referring to Mr. Erdoğan's remarks, I tried to give him a reference to the speech he quoted from the secret reports in 1922; in fact, what I'm trying to refer to as references there are secret subpoenas, and it's very important for Erdogan to say so. I know Mr. Dervisoglu has a very profound sense of history, and I've heard about it, so at least I know that his presidents have a state mind. In that sense, I'd like to thank you all by bringing back from a deeper past to the solution of our country's deep issue, to the mind of that state, which we call the 1921 process, together, so that we can all contribute to creating a democratic republic by adapting to the conditions of our day.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0265par0669	Thank you, Mr. Survivor. Mr. Özkan, let me listen to you, but it's too short, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0266par0672	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, when Adana's turnip and kebab enter the midst of discussions about the security and peace of our country, it shows that the winner of the day is Adana's shawl and kebab. But in the event of our freedom, it is the order of the mind, of history that we move on without compromising our safety, without compromising freedom in safety. That's where the debate is concentrated. In our history, we have put forward an approach in the speech of politicians about such sufferings, so that everyone can express their ethnic identity, opinion, political approach, and language, regardless of any distinction. However, the disclosure of these identities should never threaten and endanger the security of our country. In this context, I say we must secure the peace and peace of our country without compromise from freedom and security, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit02spe0265par0674	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm giving the merger ten minutes. After that, we'll continue with the Republican People's Party's group spokesman.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0265par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0267par0050	No ministers.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0268par0051	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0267par0052	Mr. President, let's close, the House is closed; there is no government, no ministers.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0269par0053	They've got Deputy Ministers.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0267par0054	No, sir, it has to be special paper for the Deputy Minister.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0270par0055	Dear friends, please take your seats.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0267par0056	We didn't waste this hair, it'll be written authority.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0270par0057	Dear friends, it's enough that the Commission is in place for the General Assembly to work, and so are the ministers.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0267par0058	Where's it written, Mayor?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0270par0059	Have all the speakers of the Republican People's Party arrived? I'm waiting for him.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0267par0060	Everybody's ready, CHP's up all the time.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0271par0061	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0270par0062	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0271par0065	Mr. President, in order to continue the debate of the previous session, not to contradict Mr. Deputy President, but perhaps this will be more accurate -- I got calls from Adana. And in a very similar language that we're living in today, they mentioned the Akit newspaper -- the most supportive of economics, sometimes the Akit newspaper, who used the worst words, sometimes the worst headlines -- about the MHP AHL's Adana Mayor Husseinu, who owns the scandal festival. Mr. Vocabulary's explanations, in fact, are the statements used by Mr. President and the statements used by us from the beginning. There is no economic burden on the municipality, and the people themselves are traditionally doing it from social media or from among themselves, but local executives allow this to happen -- not in their own statements -- but in their own direct festival, not to be prevented.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0270par0067	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0271par0068	They're doing this, for example, to a festival like this that brings about 1 million people to the face of the tradesman, including cleaning up there the next day, providing some logistical support. There's nothing I'm saying against the stance of the National Movement Party, but I must say that, as it is today, a publishing body, seen in the past as almost Pravda (the Party of Justice and Development), also taunts Hüseyin Orallu and demonises the festival by linking it to the altitude.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0270par0070	Thank you. Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0272par0073	Mr. President, we have nothing to say to Adana's turnip and kebab, but a newspaper written in any other political approach, and a columnist, can have no connectivity to the AK PARTI; the binding words of the EC PARTY are approaches to the leader, party managers and group, in the name of the government. In this context, our approaches have been structural reforms, the state of law, human rights and democraticisation reforms that will increase the welfare and peace of our country for 17 years. In order for no one to face any discrimination, we have established a judicial law, a legal order based on respect for differences, and in this context, we have banned hate crimes, defamations of differences. But it has to be seen that we need to protect our youth from all kinds of bad habits and use them in a certain discipline. We must, of course, include the regulations, approaches that exist in the developed Western democracies.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0270par0076	Let's finish, Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0272par0077	Anyone who wants to, prefers his lifestyle, uses alcohol, but, of course, I think we have to protect our young ones in a certain frame. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0273par0080	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0274par0081	Dear MPs, you know...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0273par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0274par0083	If you'll excuse me, we don't make any promises during budget negotiations according to the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0275par0084	So I took back my request.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0274par0087	Meanwhile, an explosion occurred in one of the furnaces of Alexander's Iron Steel, but thankfully, no one was killed or injured. We want you to get well soon. And let me share that, because Mr. Hawke would like to make a statement about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0276par0089	Mr. President, just for the record. I'm sorry. The population of our Üskudar district is 600,000. There is no oral and dental hospital in the district of Üskudar. While the Minister of Health is here, my request is from them, that our district of Üskudar wants to open an oral and dental hospital, which demands that the victim be relieved. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0277par0092	We just opened it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0278par0093	It's been filed, Mr. Tanal. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account Yes, the first word on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Mehmet Göker. Here you are, Mr. Göker.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0279par0143	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, we're going to talk about a health budget in the shadow of turnips and Adana kebabs, and that's what I've been given. I'd also like to ask the government executives who are ready to account for the lost sheep on the bank of Fırat: Can you explain to us the logic of the transaction under interest instead of using it properly? [[Applause from CHP rows]] We know city hospitals have put the budget under a minimum of a quarter century debt. The city hospitals, which are co-existent with the BCI, cost a lot of money, he himself expressed in his speech at the Budget Commission's presentation.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0280par0147	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0279par0148	Not just our future, but our children's future. It is our duty to face this truth and question this abomination. Although the minister said nine city hospitals scheduled to be held in a budget presentation address will be covered by the general budget, it is a conflicting statement for him to declare that his construction is ongoing. Unfortunately, it's a confession of the inability to give up projects due to the heavy sanctions of contracts and contracts. Because the fact that there was no additional tender for hospitals scheduled for this model proves it, and the matter is in need of an explanation by Mr. Secretary. City hospitals where you don't answer all of our questions by calling them "mysteries," are not in the best interest of the patient, nor of the health workers, nor of the community. I hope you'll explain the material that needs explanation and explanation under the roof of the Supreme Assembly based on the Court's reports. Question number one: how do you swallow the fact that you're the Minister of a sovereign country that determines your position as London in a conflict that could be fought in city hospitals? [[Applause from CHP rows]] How do you relate to the state's seriousness of the Court's authorities' failure to give or give them to you, even though they demand city hospitals' tender documents and business contracts? How do you explain that the amount of guarantees in the Court's report in which you do not provide a guarantee of fullness is not determined by the necessary analysis of the planning process? If the company violates the terms of the contract or wrongfully dissolves the contract, any punishment and expense will be paid to the company as compensation. Where is the public benefit in the article? How do you explain how Elazig Fethi Sekin pays the company a guarantee for IVF, even though there's no intubation unit in the hospital? In the preliminary feasibility report for the Manisa City Hospital tender, the total cost was $122m, while only building rent was set at $64.25m in the tender. So, in other words, what kind of public interest would you pay for an extra twenty-three years of rent when you can do the hospital at a two-year rent price? The company that operates laundry services at Yozgat City Hospital and provides the services of the Interrogation State Hospital is the same company. The only difference is that this cleaning company in city hospitals costs 14 times as much. If this isn't dirty money from dirty laundry, then what is it? [[Applause from CHP rows]] In a country where the father committed suicide because he couldn't buy his child pants, we'll call it the Republican People's Party. (HPP) We'll say no on behalf of the people we've been chosen for the budget of the palace, which cost $5,300,000 to the kitchen expenses, while there's a wife who can't go to market for lack of money and commit suicide. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0281par0161	Yes, Mr. Bayram Yilmakaya, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0282par0163	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the health department's budget. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, my other friends have told me a lot, and they will, and I, as a doctor's MP, would like to address a few issues. City hospitals are essential to the budget. Beyond city centers, huge, modern, technological buildings with hard access and death on the road; the presence of doctors and staff who have been breathless as they go from one end to the other; the forgotten and absent doctor, staff rest rooms; medical equipment and materials that are old or new; things that are unknowable, methods of different doctors and assistant medical staff, and many other things I can't think of as doctors. Mr. President boasts a lot, but I can hear doctors like me saying, "How strange is that when you first see the health minister who understands hospitalization for city hospitals, which is a freak with nothing to brag about?" You say you don't guarantee fullness, but when you turn the 112 emergency system into this hospital, do you have any idea what will happen to the intensive care units and clinics at private hospitals in our country that are now covering about 50 percent of the intensive care services? We're looking for ways to make people sick more? Or are you trying to gradually end your previous star project, private hospitals? Honestly, I'm curious. The other thing is blood products. In 2017, two years have passed since the tender given to the Maxicells Asş, owned by Murat Sandzak, under the Ministry of Health, the SGK and the Turkish Redee to produce domestic blood products. There are 150 acres of treasured land in Silivri, just for this project, but there is no factory, no work. Although it is forbidden to enter the dorm, blood products, which are three months away, are collected cheaply from Germany, and sold to state hospitals at an exorbitant price. It's a contract guaranteed and it's in love with power, but there's no factory, no lab, no production. Millions of liras are still being paid to the company that has not moved except to sign the agreement with the SGK and obtain a license. This unsanitary and illegal procedure must be returned at once. That's enough, don't play with our blood anymore. [[Applause from CHP rows]] When it comes to violence in health: violence that affects all individuals in the community, regardless of the level of education, is becoming a part of our everyday life and is an important problem for health workers. Again this year, many of our doctors and health workers have been attacked over and over again. A citizen in uneducated and difficult living conditions responds violently when he sees a slight lack of interest in himself. Unfortunately, the chances of doctors and health workers making mistakes are increasing because of heavy workloads and performance practice. On one hand, cases of violence with patients and patients who are overwhelmed by intense and difficult working environments, working under various challenges, and on the other hand, uneducated, insufferable and psychologically depressed are inevitable. The priority of preventing this is to correct the conditions of both sides. First, the working environment and conditions of doctors and health workers must be organised. In addition, the president should have more access to the doctor and the health worker, but his rhetoric is not clear and clear for this working group. I think more importantly, I wish the President would find me in the face of violence against health workers, my health worker, my doctor. If he had any words, he would have positive results in society and law enforcement, and speed up the end of violence. As to Gaziantep's problems, Gaziantep has many problems with health. For example, Gaziantep has Abdulkadir High State Hospital, which is not fully active; this hospital lacks staff, lacks supplies, lacks doctors. Again, Gaziantep is shown as Turkey's province of infant mortality. Public hospitals serving the districts of Gaziantep, with a population of 3 million Syrians, must be immediately appointed to a obstetrician, children's expert and neonatal care specialist, a perinatologist. I think the Ministry of Health would have to immediately assign an attending to the lack of doctors in these majors. A decision had been made, however, to reduce the number of newborn beds to one-third, which, fortunately, was quickly returned because of the rapid arrangement of the Ministry. Finally, dear friends, we as lawmakers are trying to bring up the problems of citizens and health workers in our region and across the country, with questions for the development of solutions, to the Minister of Health, but we see that the Ministry of Health is ignoring the Supreme Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0283par0176	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0282par0177	Only this semester, the Health Minister received 1,493 questions motions, but only 14 questions were answered.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0284par0178	It's not like that, it's not like that.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0282par0179	Dear friends, I think it's a very serious move when the Minister of Health doesn't respond to parliamentary motions. (HPP) Our health minister may not be in control of the situation because he's not from politics, and he may not know this with his modest, calm personality, but I'm amazed at experienced bureaucrats who know this business; I can't understand how wrong it is that they act like this government never leaves. When power changes in a possible early election, I wonder how they're going to look at us when we and a fellow like us look at us, how they're going to lift this shame, or how they're going to do it with this power, and we're going to see if they think we're going to go with this power. I invite the Minister and the bureaucrats to be more sensitive about this. After all, I wish our budget to our health workers and our people with good luck. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0285par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0286par0184	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0285par0187	Mr. President, in my profession, I've served at every level from the Manisa Pharmaceutical Room to the Secretary General of the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals in pharmaceuticals and pharmaceuticals. We have pharmaceutical lawmakers at every party, and there's one fact they all know. I don't know how much trouble Mr. Health Minister is aware of, but a hand gets a very important income from the pockets of all pharmacists, and twenty-six months ago this was justified, although the adventure is five years old: we're going to do domestic and national blood products. It's a very cliche word, but if it can be done, it's very true. And they found a very serious way to do it. They called seven companies importing blood products to Turkey, and they called 11 other companies who did other jobs, and they sat at a table, and they said, "We're going to choose 1 firms at the end of the day, we're going to choose the blood products in Turkey, the pharmacy markets -- 15 percent of the pharmacy markets -- and a very important money for all the pharmacists -- and all the hospitals are going to sell and give it to each of us, but eventually we're going to have local, national blood products.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0286par0189	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0285par0190	And in Silivri, we will give a great land of 150 acres. They told the firm: "This company we're going to pick will prepare six cold storage units immediately, and 10 plasmapheresis centers immediately, one in a year, and the others within a year. Local blood will first come and be processed in Germany, and when the factory is finished, all will be domestic, national. And the price, like pharmacists, doesn't have to pay the cheapest, it's a very high price. What we've come to today is that they've taken files from all the companies who know the business, and you've been eliminated. Seven big firms crying at the front door. He's gone from everyone to Maxicells, Maxicells. I've just been told, and you know very well Murat Sandzak...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0286par0193	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0285par0194	Since I see it so critical... Murat Sandzak opened a cold tank, built a blood collection center; do you know what he did? He's been using and traveling for twenty-six months; according to Turkish law, Mr. Secretary knows that you can't put blood products in Turkey with less than a year of expiration, and if you do, you're going to be severely punished, but there's a privilege in this -- three months left, Murat Sandzak gets the product that companies have to throw at 1 in 18 and he doesn't charge the state for more than the price listed in pharmacies and hospitals -- but he's billing the state for 1 in 18 and he hasn't hit a nail yet. Twenty-six months, he hasn't done anything he's promised. No cold air tanks, no centers, no factories; the concession goes on, the money goes on. What's going on? He also collects a rent every month from a mid-income pharmacist's pocket.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0286par0197	Please complete it, Mr. Special. The Pharmacist from the MPP/li also takes it, and the pharmacist from the Pharmaceuticals also receives it. And this man, on top of his last name, is Ethem Sandzak, and because he says, "I love you very much," he says, "I love you, Chief." Let's also say that Murat Kazancı signed with the Ministry of Health on behalf of Sandzak. You all probably know Hakan Kazancı, Bilal Erdogan's best friend, Vice President of the Archers Foundation. You're in this up to here, Mr. Secretary. Save your party from this filth, save the Ministry of Health, save Turkey; all pharmacists will have both hands on your side otherwise. And as for our national assets, do not pursue robbers who do not keep their word. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account Mr. Irfan Kaplan...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0287par0249	Mr. President, where are you from, Mr. Irfan?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0286par0250	Gaziantep...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0287par0251	Shouldn't you be calling him?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0286par0252	I read it at the beginning, I don't have to repeat it, Mr. Akar. Mr. Kaplan, you go ahead. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0288par0254	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yesterday in Mugla, a drug addict broke the windows of pharmacies to buy antidepressants and damaged the pharmacy. The pharmacist at the museum sends my condolences to my friends, and I condemn these and such violent incidents. Dear friends, I'm going to wish our country and our nation the best of the 2020 budget talks, but I can't. There are no workers in this budget. No workers, no farmers, no producers in this budget. There are no tradesmen, no officers, no pensions in this budget. (HPP) There are no unemployed people in this budget, no young people, no women, no disabled people. No pensioners in this budget, no subcontractors. There is no solution to the Syrian refugee issue in this budget. This budget seems to be only good for the palace and its followers. Dear friends, this budget is the budget of those who scoop it up and distribute it with spoons. This budget is a raise to the poor. This budget is the budget of tax injustice. This budget is a burden budget on the back of a citizen who's trying to make a living at minimum wage. It's a budget for people who don't see labor, poverty, women's murders, hunger, unemployment suicides in the country. There's a small income increase in this budget, there's taxes, there's a lot of favours in this budget. Dear friends, today we're discussing the Health Ministry budget, I'd like to show you how health is failing in my constituency, Gaziantep. Gaziantep, a city of gastronomy, famous for its industry, its trade, its tourism, is unfortunately coming up with its shortcomings, not its reputation in health. Gaziantep has a population of 2,28,000, a registered Syrian population of 457,000, almost 3 million, along with non-registered Syrians. The health care of Cerablus and El Bab is also performed in Gaziantep. Heavy injuries in that area and severe patients who are difficult to treat are also being treated in Gaziantep. Other than that, there are shipments from neighbouring provinces: Kahramanmarash, Kilis, Adıyaman, Şanlıurfa, and many patients from the provinces of Şanlıurfa. Dear friends, while the health plan is being planned, the Syrians are not taking into account, the transfers from neighbouring provinces are not taking into account. With the economic crisis, our low-income citizens, struggling with unemployment, can only benefit from public hospitals. The number of state hospitals in our province, which has hosted about 3 million people, is insufficient. Gaziantep has a severe lack of specialists. In our county, there are very few obstetricians. With the Syrian fertility rate and a significant increase in Gaziantep population, the number of obstetrics experts in our nearly 3 million counties is extremely inadequate. Gaziantep is also the highest rate of infant mortality. In particular, the perinethologist who follows and evaluates risky pregnancies is unfortunately not in any hospital in Gaziantep. Again, Gaziantep has only one newborn ICU specialist and a child endocrinologist. The number of children's physicians is extremely inadequate. Ten children were treated for tuberculosis in Gaziantep love houses last week. If these children are not properly treated, they may pose a disease threat to the people of the region in the coming days. Another important issue is the lack of neurosurgery specialist, 10 at the Gaziantep center. Unfortunately, there are no neurosurgeons in the districts. In the last six years, Gaziantep has not been appointed a neurosurgeon. There's not a single plastic surgeon at the 25th December State Hospital with 300 beds. The 2015 investment plans were to set up a 300-bed hospital in a 30-acre area next to the 25 December State Hospital, the project ended, but it was not done due to budget deficits, it did not begin. Dear friends, it's no different in our counties. There are no neurosurgery specialists, infection specialists, physical therapists, breast disease specialists and urologists in juvie County Hospital.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0289par0264	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0288par0265	At the Nizip County State Hospital, which has a population of 140,000 people, there is no medical expert, an infection specialist, an obstetrician and a pediatrician. In hospitals in Gaziantep central and districts, the need for physicians and specialists must be met immediately. Thanks to the EC PARTY, antidepressants have increased in recent years. In 17 years, there was no mental nor mental nor physical health left in this country. The AK PARTY has commercialised health care with what it calls reform under the Health Transformation Programme. He cemented health with city hospitals, fed subcontractors. He says it's all about health, and in Gaziantep, with a population of 3 million, I ask that my fellow citizens be delivered to health care in the way they deserve, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0290par0269	Mr. Ali Sugar, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0291par0271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Health budget. In our country, when it's shown that health is more important, when it's actually shown that the budget is being raised, much more of that increased money goes to contractors, unfortunately. Because of what the president calls city hospitals, the dreams of future generations are being stolen, heavy debts that cannot be repaid to future generations. It's in the hands of three companies, the health of the entire country. In 2019, the world was able to capture the black hole at a rate of vertigo in technology, and Turkey met the black hole. (Applause) We've seen how much damage the black hole can do in the budget. These public-private partnerships will take two cities of money from our future and put it in someone's pocket, with the old money of two cities. We don't have the brains, but unfortunately, we're going to put this kind of money in the contractors' pockets with this kind of public-special partnership. You know how you always say, "1071," the thousandth year in 2071. You say, even when 2071 arrives, these debts will not be over? Along with this public-private partnership, the Ministry of Health will give its considerable budget to these contractors. In 2022, the Ministry of Health will have to hand over a third of its budget to these contractors, and the remaining two-thirds of it to see the services of state hospitals, to see immunization, to see protective care, to provide drugs that are not available? I don't know what you're going to do, but your budget is now being held hostage, and not just yours, but the budget of the Ministry of Health over 2050 years has been held hostage from today. Now, young people, we've become anesthesiologists, we've become dialysis technicians, we've become physical therapy technicians, we've become radiology technicians, we've become nurses; we're waiting for work. Can he be held next year? No, because their money is buried in concrete, next year the staff share of the budget will drop from 44.68 per cent to 41.23 per cent. Unfortunately, since their money has been spent in the past, we're not going to be able to give our children jobs, so let's just say that's the number here. 70 billion dollars of privatisation was made during your time. That's $70 billion in privatisation over the past year, if we try to build those factories, the docks, the shipyards, the plants over there, it's worth $300 billion. So if we had $300 billion today, we wouldn't be able to make them, but you sold them for $70 billion. In this budget, you split it with your partner, and you leave the burden to our people, our children, our grandchildren. The public-private cooperation model is an abandoned model in the world, and you said that the newly built hospitals in the last budget will no longer be made from public-special partnership, but from the general budget. It's the right step, but the existing hospitals need to be nationalized, so the public shouldn't have to pay the heavy burden. If we had done it all in 25 years, we would have had to pay 142 billion dollars in 25 years; half of that is rent, half of that is service. But in this case, we're still going to pay 95 billion dollars -- $50 billion in rent, $45 billion in service payments. We'll have to take care of them. We'll have to pay them. Now, you're building a hospital, you normally have to build this hospital around 150 square meters per bed, but you're doing about 400 square meters. Why are you making it so big? Why are your eyes so big in the story of the Red Riding Hood? Why is your mouth so big? They planned a double-sized hospital so that the allies could eat more. Not even America does this, not even America, who boasts of the greatest, but unfortunately, the planners did this, and they cost three times as much. If the government were to give it to him in a normal tender, he'd do it to him in three. It's two times the size, six times the size, nine times the payout, 40 to 45 times the debt, you have no right to make anyone pay for it. Now, how is the health of our children that you've put under so much debt? The country has at least 4.2 per cent of national income in OECD countries. The contractors have these coins, but there's no money to renovate the House of Surgery; no hospitals to go to when there's an earthquake.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0292par0281	Dear Sugar, finish your words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0291par0282	The SUT prices have not been increased since 2008, so universities have been deliberately bankrupted. On the other hand, measles: We had not seen it before, but we had achieved a serious gain by inoculation. For measles, Turkey was in a good spot, but there were nine cases of measles in 2016 and 716 cases of measles in 2018. This foreign policy also makes Turkey's children sick. The law of violence in health must be passed at once. The environmental pollution of thermal plants is more important than cigarettes, it's worse for our health than for smoking. In this regard, the filters must be activated, and I am stating the importance of being your followers in this regard. The city hospital is here in Bursa, where the city's health has immigrated. Here, if the emergency patient tries to leave, he'll die on the way, the chronic patient will stop going, he'll lose his health. This isn't a smart project, I'm saying it needs to be nationalized, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0293par0287	Mr. Hussein Avni Aksoy, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0294par0289	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I've made a commitment to the health department budget of 2020. As a pediatrician who's been in the medical profession for 45 years, I'm going to pass on to you valued lawmakers the difficulties I've seen in the medical system. The first thing in health is to make the right diagnosis. Misdiagnosis would cost the patient his life. Planning and administrative failures in the health system also lead to bankruptcy. According to the World Health Organization, health is defined as a state of complete goodness, physically, spiritually, and socially. In our country, health care consists of three digits. The first step is foster medicine, family medicine; second digits, standing diagnostics and treatment clinics; the third step is bed-ridden treatment centers. The purpose of protective medicine is to offer basic health care. Infection and immunization are the most scientific practice here. As a pediatrician, I suggest we get our kids vaccinated, deny the vaccine. In the current system, the first and second step has been pushed back into the background and the third step is directly placed in the lead. At this point, city hospitals that aim to make money off people are integrated into the system. 6.6 per cent in 2018; 12.4 per cent in 2019; 18 per cent in 2020; these are guarantees from the Ministry of Health budget to city hospitals. In the coming years, if the city hospitals are urged at this rate -- I'm sorry to say -- the entire Ministry of Health budget will go towards guarantee payments. This system shows the concept of making money out of making our people sick in advance. The violence against the doctor, nurse, and other medical staff that we entrust our lives to is increasing day by day. The legal provisions needed to prevent violence in health must be carried out immediately. Take me to the Turkish physicians who say, "The Turkish Medical Association, which is the occupational organization of our doctors, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, has to be integrated into the health system by making necessary legal arrangements for medical and other health workers." 3600 additional indicators have not been given to employees in a year and a half since the election. Our children, a graduate of anesthesia, psychology and sociology, are victims and expect to be appointed. Healthcare workers, as in all areas, are victims of EYT and are waiting for the law to come out. Human health has been negatively affected by our city of Karabuk, where pollution and air is so dense. Although the population of the province was 248,000, about 2 million people a year applied for clinics. In the past three hospitals in the city center, today our people are sentenced to one hospital. Our citizens are given an appointment for an examination in 15 to 20 days. During this time, Safranbolu, Yenice, Eskipazar, Eflani and Ovacık have been in our counties. I've told you twice from this honorable bench that things are not going well in Karabuk because of management problems and staffing in health. Once again, the Blackbuke province, especially the Saffranbolu State Hospital, must be taken into consideration for its health. A joint decision by five parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly was set up to investigate Down syndrome, autism and other developmental disorders. This policy-based Commission will provide various possibilities for special-needed individuals. During our commission's visit to the Ministry of Health, Mr. Minister and my colleague have decided to establish the office of the Special Needed Office. I thank him for his decision. I'd also like to thank the Commissioner and my fellow lawmakers. I'd like to see the harmony of our commission reflected in our General Assembly. The state hospital, which was built a year ago in 2018, was evacuated due to a slip of the ground in Eskipazar district of Karabük. This is a loss of national wealth, and authorities must take immediate precautions on the matter. Clearly, health services have various defects. The most dangerous situation for buildings is the floor shift. If the ground slips in politics, it means you're slipping under your feet, which means the party's slipping. After the ground starts to slip, the result is collapse and destruction. Here, I'll show you the Eskipazar State Hospital, which was held a year ago, and I'll show it to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, mind your ground, what we're talking about is the rest of the country. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0295par0308	Mr. Murat Minister, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0296par0310	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, our country is dealing with scorching problems, and at the very beginning of the agenda, we have economic crisis, national security issues, our flashbacks in foreign policy, our education collapse, and our number of problems that we can increase. These are all problems with the country's back. As long as you think about it, it's a problem for the citizen, dear friends, if you think about it. But we have a more important problem than all of this: a climate crisis that we ignore in the motion of our daily lives, perhaps unaware of, but directly threatens life on earth. This climate crisis is actually the biggest problem mankind has ever faced, dear friends. What you all know -- I think he died a year ago -- there's an English physicist, Stephen Hawking, who says that in a hundred years mankind will have to look for other planets to build a new colony. Earlier, his assessment of this was a thousand years, reduced to a hundred years in an interview with the BBC before he died. Dear friends, do you realize what we're up against? The earth is dying. It's not just our country's problem, it's the existence of life on earth. It's the climate crisis. Now, what our ministry is doing about the climate crisis, what we call the beka problem, is, frankly, I wouldn't want to be sitting in the seat of Mr. Murat Kurum. Over the years, his share in the general budget is sitting in the seat of a ministry that has fallen to a fall of a thousand to 26 percent; it has already been less, and less. In all ministries, however, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is vital to all of us. Unfortunately, neither the court nor the Minister are aware of this. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, what's the world doing about it, guys? The European Union Commission signs the European Green Agreement, which aims to make the continent harmless to the climate by 2050, and sets aside 25 per cent from its long-term budget as it makes legal arrangements under this agreement. On the one hand, our Ministry's budget of 26 per thousand is a 25 per cent budget for climate change in the European Union. Shame on you, Minister! And that shame does not belong to the Minister alone; it is here that the palace, which advocates this budget, should be ashamed, dear friends. We can't spare money for the climate crisis, but we're telling the IMF we're going to lend money to them. Dear friends, we don't know what we're up against. Save yourself for a few minutes from the turmoil of everyday politics and think about it. The world's agenda is climate crisis. In hundreds of countries, millions of people are in the square to draw attention to the climate crisis and deliver their demands to those in power. What about us? We don't have a national policy on climate crisis, and we don't get involved in international policies. We continue to demonstrate our stable position in the same category as Sudan, South Yemen, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, and the European Union and 186 countries signed under the Paris Climate Agreement. It's the wrong policy to fight the climate crisis through grants only under the Paris Climate Agreement or other funds to look for, Mr. Secretary. When the international search fails to yield results, the fact that the national level of work has stopped already reveals your insensitiveness and carelessness in this regard. Dear friends, we may not be able to travel 100 billion galaxies and find another planet with life on it outside of this blue planet. None of us are Atlas, who carries the world on his shoulders; rather, this world carries all of us, dear friends. As the People's Party of the Republic, we raise the screams of figs, olives, tunas, hundred years of trees, this thalana, this looting, this looting, that we fight against. The real beka problem is the climate crisis. The climate crisis, the air, the water, is a land crisis. (HPP) The climate crisis is a food crisis, a health crisis. The climate crisis is an economic crisis. The world is dying, my friends. The climate crisis is the future crisis because there is no future on the dead planet. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0297par0321	Mr. Hasan Baltacı of Kastamon, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0298par0323	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I would be honored to defend the budget earned by great challenges in favour of our citizens who gave me this assignment. I'd like to point out that, first of all, the city means that we can live together in a society. Kent means that men and women, children, elderly, disabled, disadvantaged groups, and individuals with different political views can live equally, fairly, freely. Kent means to be able to live in peace, peace, and security. Dear friends, the city is the right to a dwelling above all else. Kent is a drinkable right to clean water. Kent means habitable fresh air, accessible green space, accessible school, accessible hospital. Today, however, the cities have been betrayed in your hands, in your power, for the sake of growth at all costs. Turkey, where $550 billion has been buried in concrete in 17 years for growth, has been granted a total of 11 million 612,000 apartments between 2002 and 18 years. Today there are still 1,300,000 dwellings waiting to be sold. The other day, according to an opening by Mr. Erdogan, 877,000 homes were produced by TOKI's hand. Dear friends, so, after all the construction, has the housing problem been resolved? Unsolved. See, according to TÜİK figures, 19 of every 100 households were tenants in 2002 and 29 of every 100 households were tenants in 2018. There are still 6.7 million households in this country today that still haven't earned their housing rights. The renters pay their hosts around 60 billion a year. Half the revenues of millions of people who work for minimum wage are still paid for rent. The owners have mortgaged banks for decades. So the constructions you're bragging about haven't finished the inequality, but have deepened it. Dear friends, the city is a drinkable right to clean water. According to TÜİK 2016, 46 per cent of our country is still unable to reach reliable drinking and using water. Kent is also a right to fresh air. Turkey's air, however, has become 33 per cent more polluted than the European Union average. The number of deaths related to air pollution has exceeded 30,000. Kent means to live in safe houses at the same time, to be prepared for all kinds of natural events. Although we live in an earthquake geography, our cities are still not ready for an earthquake. The recent events of the Silivri earthquake are evident, and you still have no concrete steps taken on earthquake risk management, as they are not, the money collected under the name of the depression tax has been transferred to double roads. Already inadequate concentration sites have become malls, residences. And it is also the owners, and the manifesters, that are responsible for the firmness of the buildings, under the peace of the building; and you cast it off from yourselves. Meanwhile, we see that the millions collected from the zoning pardon are not in this budget today, so we don't know where they're going. Dear friends, the city is the right to live in a clean environment. Yet, when we could not recycle our own garbage, we began importing garbage from Europe. By the way, there's no telling where the money from the bag went. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the city is the right of citizens to participate directly and democratically in politics by the hands of local governments. However, for 17 years, you took the authority of local governments, step-by-step, especially the right to plan, and handed it over to the Ministry because the zoning rate fuels your appetite. Because the first thing you learned before you came to power was zoning. Therefore, Erdogan's closest colleagues are friends of the mayoral era. You've made the cities a hub of runt production through individual, private, company-only, non-compulsive development changes. We know who you've made rich overnight by changing plans, saying, "It's not magic, it's grace, it's sleight of hand."
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0299par0332	Who got rich? Explain it to us. Don't blame anyone.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0300par0333	Mr. Cora, Mr. Secretary will give you the answer.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0298par0334	You sold Ankara a parcel, betrayed Istanbul. It's not enough, you're trying to save the companies that went down on the asset fund.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0300par0336	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0298par0337	Kent means the right to gather. And you destroyed the places, so that no one should dispute with you about it. You destroyed the green areas where children could reach. You left 2 percent green space in the world metropolitan area like Istanbul. Finally, I'd like to remind you that crimes against the city increase social crimes. Understanding that urbanism is a model of economic savings is deepening the economic, social and political crisis. But I'd like to remind you that there are millions of people living right next to your towers that are rising in the same cities, condemned to unemployment, poverty, hope for the future. Just like there are bagel palaces in the city, there are thousands of stalls that sell bagels. (HPP clapping in rows) Where the same towers rise, you can't stop the objections from rising. As a result, short trash will get its due from the long trash, but today, but tomorrow.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0301par0341	Mr. Yasar Charter, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0302par0343	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party group on behalf of the Ministry of Interior General Command budget. I salute your high council. Dear friends, the General Command of the Gendarme Command, which was founded in 1839 for a hundred and eighty years, is in fact the task of securing peace and order as the second largest force since the Army Command. The carabinieri have property, judicial and military duties. From the day he was founded, he also served as commander-in-chief of the Ministry of Interior or the Chief of Staff. However, on July 27, 2016, it was linked to the Ministry of Interior and 668, which was issued in the Official Gazette, and was adopted last week and continued to work jointly with the Ministry of Interior. My dear friends, amongst our country's security is the first officer, petty officer, undersigned petty officer, expert police officer, expert officer, contractor, contractor and private. It is not right to have such different names and to have different rights. There's no contract for homeland love and duty, my friends. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] We believe that the staff who perform the same task should be given their rights by a new law. So, when we look at the increase in the Gendarme General Command in this budget, the increase in Coast Guard Command is 29.9 per cent, but the increase in the Gendarme General Command is 17.2 per cent. Our soldiers are paid 126 lira, our corporals 146 lira, our sergeants 163 lira a month, and they need to be increased. Dear friends, I'd like to address the difficulties of your Ministry and our great Parliament at the point of practice. You invented a freaky presidential government system, accepted by a referendum on April 16, 2017, but frankly, in this budget that came to the Supreme Assembly, as it is today, as it was in the past, and as it will be tomorrow, we are facing a system that can't bring its own budget here and vote. (HPP) We'll vote in a moment, if the 3 ministers can't vote for their budget, why will you guys vote as MPs?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0303par0349	The system's changed.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0302par0350	Therefore, you all know that such a system is wrong. Dear friends, Mr. Secretary, you have all the resources you have, information from the police and the gendarmes. I'd like to call from here, have your units do the necessary research. Because as lawmakers, we can't get information from the authorities. What we want to ask and find out is where is the money collected for the 15th of July martyrs and veterans? Where's the $338 million and why hasn't it been distributed yet? Now, when many of us, our lawmakers, as our trade friends, look at the average income of deposit interest and treasury bonds, this $338 million is supposed to be $495 million today, and unfortunately it's still unknown where and how the money is. Now, Mr. Secretary, you're the Home Secretary, you've got departmental units. Indeed, 600 MPs and thousands of people who have made these contributions are very curious about where their money is going, and they want to know. First of all, as lawmakers, we want to know, and then we want to know about the citizens who invested these funds. Of course, that's what our fellow martyrs and veterans in need of these coins expect.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0304par0355	Mr. Charter, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0302par0356	Dear friends, I'd like to briefly tell you where and how these coins go in a neighbor's rhyme. Mr. Ministers, has the aid money been collected at 309 million? Packed up / To whom? Veterans / Who else? / So, where's the money?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0305par0358	In the bank!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0302par0359	Where's the Foundation? We transferred it to the Treasury / So, where's the treasure? In the palace / Well, where is the palace? Dragon Seven / So, where's the dragon? He went to Man's Island with the Flying Palace. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, this is how money ends. Since thousands of people don't give aid to veterans and martyrs, these people are in this budget. As the Republican People's Party, it states that we will vote against this decent budget, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0306par0363	Mr. Jale Nur Sullü...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0307par0364	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0306par0365	Mr. Sullu, one moment, please. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0307par0367	Mr. President, we've heard this rhyme before; Mr. President Turkey has shared it with the public. First of all, we talked about the money gathered in our government about our martyrs and veterans, our 15th July martyrs and veterans.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0308par0368	Where? At the foundation?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0307par0369	Such criticism can be made, but as our President and the EC PARTY group, who claimed the trust of our martyrs, I declare that we do not accept these accusations. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0309par0372	Mr. Sullu...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0310par0373	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0309par0374	Mr. Special, I called Mr. Sullu twice, and I couldn't promise. Mr. Sullu, I'm sorry, I'll have to make you wait a little longer. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0311par0379	Mr. President, Mr. President, on his own, July 15th did not pursue the consequences of the campaign for martyrs and veterans. The martyrs of July 15th said they were not given their rights through e-mails, through telephones, by telephone, by our MPs, our Ankara MPs, directly in our chairman-in-chief's programs, such a relief campaign. We've started to work on this, and our Ankara MP Murat Emir has taken it personally. Here's what we're getting at: in those days, we all wanted to do something, and there was an account for the charity campaign. And when the pain is fresh, when the money is most needed, it's $314 million to be given to relatives of the martyrs and veterans, that's true.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0309par0381	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0311par0382	There's no money, no money, no money. What's it gonna be? We asked Mr. Minister, Mr. Fatma Betül Sayan Kaya said under the record here: "A foundation will be established, it will be transferred there, it has not yet been established." We followed. The vice president -- I'm describing the historical process, not for today -- said that there was money on this bench, that the money was in the government's trust, that it would be transferred there once the foundation was established. Then the foundation was established, we went to the foundation's address, we couldn't find the foundation, there's no phone number, there's no manager. That's what we said. Last reportedly, it was in the state's sole account, along with 314 million TL. But the money was supposed to be in the foundation, and the money was put in $10 million. In your account, the sum of the money is $342 million.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0309par0384	Your last words, please, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0311par0385	It's already over. But if you put that money in the worst-run, minimum-income investment vehicle, that's $496 million, that's the problem. This money is in our state. It is not the right of the state. People gave this money for those who lay in front of the tank that night, for those who lost their children. The savings of how to use this money don't belong to you, because when he gave it to the families of the martyrs, he gave it to you; that's the point, don't beat around the bush. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0312par0388	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0313par0389	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0312par0391	Mr. President, as the Deputy Director of the Group stated, the money collected is in the government's sole account, the money is not going anywhere.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0314par0392	Why is he still there?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0312par0393	Oh, if there's a debate about the amount of money, about decontamination, it's the subject of a separate discussion. But what we're saying is that interest has dropped in this country, the money collected will be spent on the state's account, and the money in this account will be spent on our martyrs and veterans. Thank you. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0315par0441	Mr. Sullu, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Sullu, we've taken you to the stand, even if it's difficult.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0316par0444	If I don't have time, then add some, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Police General Directorate. The budget proposal aims to ensure public safety and individuals use their constitutional rights and freedoms, providing services that will reduce crime by maintaining the balance between freedom and security that centers the individual. I congratulate Mr. Secretary and the Police Department on the fact that this is exactly what society expects. Well, can our police department carry out these budget targets? Is it not a violation of the right to hold an unarmed and unaggressed meeting, demonstration march, without the permission of the Constitution, by aggressively interfering with anti-violence activists, workers seeking their rights? Given academics and journalists in prisons, where is the goal of providing individuals with constitutional fundamental rights and freedom? Of all the unguarded security forces, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, were the murdered women able to prevent crime in child abuse? Rabia Naz, have suspicious deaths like Burak Ogrash and countless unsolveds been illuminated by effective intervention? He accuses the opposition of teaching the world that there is no safety in the country. It is true that we, not as the main opposition to the world, but to those who cannot rule our country, have a claim to teach our citizens the rights, the laws of our citizens. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Constitutional Court ruled last month that there was an incompatible violation of human dignity in Eren Şahin's decision, which was injured by a rubber bullet in the funeral of Berkin Elvan. The International Amnesty poll released in November shows that 82 per cent of basic rights and freedoms have been violated, 44 per cent have been unable to express people's thoughts freely, while 75 per cent have no right to violence and pepper gas, saying that social support has not been achieved. We're not critical of an increase of 15.4 per cent -- 5 billion, 297 million -- in the budget of 2020 -- due to unresolved targets, which we believe should be strengthened by our law enforcement. However, the number of citizens per arming staff has dropped from 261 to 211. We do not agree with the approach that the increase of 16 per cent in 2020 will reduce crime. Speaking of staff, we also criticise the fact that our dedicated police personnel are not included in the 2020 budget for their rights to equity and 3600 additional indicators. He describes the budget's achievements with radical changes in the understanding of governance after July 15th. The press is holding allegations against the Police Rangers. We warn by reminding you of the construction of 33.372 personnel exports. In fact, there's no need to warn us, we're concerned about the illusion of Ataturk, Lords and Lords of the Republic of Turkey, the sheiks, the dervishes, the disciples, the lunatics. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Speaking of predictions, the budget of spending in the 2018 budget exceeds $1 billion 127 million, the 2019 budget has increased 21.1 per cent compared to the previous year, but 67 per cent of the grant has been used, and the offer in 2020 is an increase of 15.7 per cent. We'll follow the budget. Because the exact accounts of the year 2018 are very high in evidence that there are accounting problems under the Court's supervision, that the financial situation is not properly reflected, which makes the administration open to abuse. We hope to see better reports in their precise account of 2019 and 2020. We also want you to consider our criticism. With efforts to contain political and social opposition and hate speech, security and peace cannot be provided.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0317par0458	Finish your words, please, Mr. Sullu.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0316par0459	We can't protect this country's main opposition leader, the lawyer, the violent doctor, the woman and the child, with negative remarks against the opposition. Budgetary goals cannot be achieved by budgeting to lower the voice of different ideas, but it is not difficult to achieve the budget goals I celebrated at the beginning of my speech; we can do so by leaving the culture of feeding from chaos aside, by leaving the other language, by embracing it, and believe me, it is worth it. As political theorist Thomas Paine said, peace costs nothing. In addition, with all its costs, it is highly advantageous from any victory. I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0318par0463	Mr. Suzan Şahin, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0319par0464	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Coast Guard Command. I salute the High Council. Sources for education, health and social policies are still behind in the 2020 budget proposal, which was prepared by the AKP government, which totalled 1 trillion 95.5 billion euros, have increased by 15.9 per cent since last year, while resources for institutions in the country's security have been earmarked for 20.20. The largest increase in funding is 29.9% at Coast Guard Command. With the problem of illegal immigrants and Syrians, which have become a serious security and beka problem with the wrong foreign policies of the AKP governments, the balances in the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean are increasing daily, the share in our navy and the Coast Guard is very important. Members, it is known that we will not be an advanced and independent country until our blue homeland gives our seas what it deserves. The great Ataturk said that the sea should be used effectively, that we should think of seamanship as the great national nation of Turk, and that we should accomplish it in a short time. Sea safety and safety centers must be established within the Coast Guard Command to ensure active sea safety in our blue homeland, including the Turkish Straits. For the needs of qualified staff, studies for the establishment of a university of applied sciences and universities of applied sciences must be speeded up. One of the most important things is to give the Coast Guard Command the intelligence authority recognised to the same-substantial General Command and Security Directorate. It must not be forgotten that marine intelligence requires a separate expertise. As in the developed countries, all corporations in the sea must be taken into the Coast Guard Command and prevented from the damage to the Treasury and the sea. In order to provide faster, more efficient and quality services, infrastructure needs must first be completed at the coastal facilities of the Coast Guard. The construction of beach surveillance, radar systems, heavy-class helicopters, drones, drones, and drones should be accelerated. The Coast Guard Commander must be demoted to the rank of admiral, the path of admiralship must be opened, the design of a national coast guard ship must be initiated. We're hoping that this budget that's been split is used to solve these essential problems. Dear members, we have witnessed the complete changes in the structure of the Turkish Armed Forces following the low coup attempt on the actors who have been placed in almost all cells. Gen. General Command and Coast Guard Command were quickly removed from the structure of the Turkish Armed Forces and the organization and turned into an armed general law enforcement force status. It was to be considered that it would cause politics to enter the military, that it would undermine military understanding, that our country's security would be negatively affected, that confidence in the commanders would be damaged, that it would damage vertical and horizontal confidence. On July 15th, this country saw painfully what it meant not to put politics in the army. Since these changes have not been discussed in a comprehensive way, dozens of changes have been made since then, and they continue to come. Because of years of training as a commanding officer, the staff subject to these rights, there have been some shortcomings and discrepancies. In order to address this discrepancy, these officers of the Command, who are a law enforcement officer, must have the rights and social rights of a police officer working at the Security General Directorate. In terms of inter-agency personnel equality, it should have the same amount of equity and social rights, the same salaries. It's also their first right to assign staff to specialist sergeants who make up most of the Command staff. Like the people of YIT, we will give an additional number of 3,600 indicators. Like workers, pensioners, farmers, tradesmen, students, we will not add one of the army of victims of tens of thousands of unappointed teachers, engineers, technical staff, to the army of gendarmes and Coast Guard personnel. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Gendarme and Coast Guard Command have been removed from being a force commander, which, as well as this last bag of law, has opened the way for the privatisation of military houses, casinos, social facilities, private local and winter training centers and all the canteens.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0320par0474	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0319par0475	I must say that we, the CHP Group, are firmly opposed to privatisation of facilities owned and opened by the Gendarme and Coast Guard Commands, which were taken from our glorious army after the July 15th traitorous coup attempt. We announce that we will vote against the Coast Guard Command budget, which is envisioned for a random, chaotic way of dealing with intimate and unrealistic regulations. There's a lantern on the street, glass on the window, but there's hope for great humanity. It's not hopeless. It's the precious MPs. I salute the great Assembly and our holy nation with the hope, faith and determination that all injustices, poverty, corruption and lies that have been brought to this nation in our power at once. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, may I speak of this Hatay matter from here?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0321par0479	We've already said Hatay. Mr. Mehmet Güzelmansur, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0322par0482	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the budget of the Immigration Administration General Directorate. I salute the General Assembly and all our citizens who are watching us on their screens. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have caused an unprecedented migration in our country, especially Syria's foreign policy and especially the foreign policy of the EC PARTY governments. According to official figures, the number of foreigners in our country is 5.1 million, 71 per cent Syrian. In addition to this, 8 per cent of the country's population is foreign. Thus, a predictive, consistent, grounded immigration policy today has become an essential part of Turkey. In its presentation of the Minister's Plan and Budget Commission, however, Turkey has developed a four-headed immigration policy. Is there a four-man immigration policy that can't predict the time of the Syrian civil war or the number of Syrians coming to our country or the impact of it? Dear MPs, one third of Hatay has become Syrian. The Syrian population of Reyhan, of the population of 93, has reached 123,000. In the church, the Syrian population exceeds 81 per cent of the province's population, and we still have excellent immigration policies. When you tell the Syrians that you're spending 40 billion dollars on your chest, if you're cutting disability salaries, 65-year-old salaries, and you don't see what the economy's become, we say, "God give you a conscience." If you're telling us that you're going to raise Turkish agriculture -- Syrian -- if you're going to have our farmer in debt moaning, leaving his crops on the branch, on the ground, and God will have mercy on your heart. If you're exempting the Syrians from all this while our tradesman pays room fees, social security payments and taxes, we say, "May God put a sense of justice in your heart." If you're explaining that you're targeting 2 million Syrian jobs while your power is creating 8 million unemployed and you're not taking any steps to dissolve unemployment, we're transferring you to the public. While our citizen waits in line to receive health care, while paying for participation, we pray for immediate cures if your giving the Syrians free health care is not even a minor inconvenience to your conscience. If you're thinking about putting in the same classrooms of Syrian people who don't speak Turkish and Turkish students who don't speak Arabic and training in mixed education and raising a generation that's well-trained in these classes with sufficient knowledge, then once again, we say, "God grant you wisdom." [[Applause from CHP rows]] With your open-door policy, if you're causing our qualified people, trained in misery, despair, and insecurities, to move out of the country, we say, "May God reform you." I'm asking your conscience, all of you, if it's so wrong? Will there be an immigration policy, foreign policy, domestic policy in the interest of the nation? Of course it won't, and it hasn't. From these wrong policies came economic crisis, debt, execution, hunger, poverty, poverty. If you don't turn back from these mistakes, the Syrian votes that you elected by citizenship and hoped for will not save you, just so you know. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the valued MPs are the eight million unemployed, the young man who ends up looking after his family with a thousand hopes, the non-appointed teacher, the engineer, the vet and other occupational owners, the pensioner, who is condemned to live below the hunger line, the millions who return from the market without filling their nets, the mothers who are left empty in the kitchen, the children who go to bed hungry, the children who are pushed into bed... into debt.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0323par0492	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0322par0493	...the farmer who left his property in the field, the shopkeeper who closed the shop, you're old. You're young. You're not retired; you're a burden on the state when you're spending millions on luxury, fortunes. We say no to the immigration policies that have been left in the age of 3600 additional indicators before the election and that the officer who was forgotten after the election has been forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I'm about to expire, I'd like to make a last word of advice. The only person who hasn't deceived the public so far is Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu. The only person who's always telling the truth about the future of our country and our nation is our President again. So I want you to heed his warnings, his suggestions. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute all citizens who want the General Assembly, rights, law, justice once again. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0324par0498	Mr. Hasan Baltacı, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0325par0499	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget of the President of Disaster and Emergency Management. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, an earthquake is a natural phenomenon, not a disaster. The earthquake cannot be prevented, but the disaster can be prevented. It's the unplanned, twisted and ranta-turned urbanism that turned the earthquake into a disaster. In this regard, it's not about disaster management, it's about taking risk management first. Unfortunately, we don't have a risk plan for before the earthquake, and we don't have a plan for later. The latest earthquake in Silivri has once again shown that Istanbul is not ready for an earthquake. The chaos of a normal - size earthquake that took place in Silivri, which lasted for three days, in our geography, is a clear indication that people do not know where to go in the earthquake, that phone calls can not be reached. We're not ready for an earthquake. The reasons for it are unplanned urbanization, earthquake-proof structures, the opening of gathering sites at the range, the privatisation of control activities to building control firms, instead of building earthquake-resistant cities, the fact that there are still stations to observe fault lines, the lack of disaster management plan, the lack of risk management plan, but the main problem is that this country is run, not science and not mind, like a profit-resistant private company. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let us not forget that 92 per cent of Turkey's settlements are above fault zones; 96 per cent of the population live at risk of earthquakes. However, it is normal for Istanbul to be the first city we think of because one fifth of Turkey's population and half of its industry are in Istanbul. Scientists warn: The probability of an earthquake in the Sea of Marmara in the last 30 years is 65 percent. • In this regard, will there or will not be an Istanbul earthquake? The debate must be concluded immediately, and the necessary measures must be taken immediately. Given the recent application to buy a building registration document under the zoning pardon for the Green House, where 21 people lost their lives, we can see the magnitude of the lack of supervision and the danger that lies ahead. Instead of building a highway with an earthquake budget, we could implement an urban transformation that predates the risk of earthquakes. Moreover, dear friends, the earthquake is not the only danger that awaits Istanbul. Look, just two days ago, despite all the warnings of scientists, Mr. Erdogan once again expressed his insistence on the Canal Istanbul Project; even as such, our Istanbul Mayor Ekrem Imamogluna tried to tell him to sit down and mind his own business. Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Imamoglu's job is to protect Istanbul from you. (HPP) Mr. Imamoğlu's job is to protect Istanbul from looting. We will not allow you to destabilise the ecosystems of tens of thousands of years, and destroy Marmara, and the Black Sea, and destroy Istanbul. While the people are at work, and the people are at their throats, you seek to wring Istanbul's throat. What is it? They're going to organize ship's traffic. What is it? They're going to organize the tanker crossings. What is it? They're going to keep the Bosphorus safe. If your goal is to ensure the safety of the Bosphorus, if it is to relieve ship traffic, why do you open up the canal route, and why do you open up the farmland on the canal route? Your goal is clear; your goal is to provide income to the construction barons. [[Applause from CHP rows]] A fellow congressman just said, "Who are these people?" My dear friend, this is it. You can't go after the Qatars of Istanbul, you can't make them under the name of Canal İstanbul, you can't sell them more and more!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0326par0508	You're enemies of the capital.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0325par0509	You can't destroy Istanbul just because you're going to make a splash. The issue is to prepare Istanbul for the earthquake, to rebuild Istanbul as a habitable city. If there is a wedge in front of Turkey -- Mr. Erdogan says so -- it is your power too!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0327par0510	We don't want it, we don't want it! You've started again.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0325par0511	You can't just talk about it. Just recently, your president warned: "There's capital on one side, there's people on the other." Where are you, brother? You are on the side of the capital, and you are on the side of the capital. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0328par0515	He doesn't want British capital.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit03spe0329par0516	Yes, the Republican People's Party Group's demands have been met. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0329par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0330par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0329par0005	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0330par0006	There are no ministers, but...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0329par0007	The commission is in place, Mr. Private. They're coming.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0330par0010	Basically, Mr. President -- I'll start, of course, but since there's a budget meeting, it would be appropriate for the Commission and the Ministers to be together at the same time. The pledge rights to our group are complete. Of course, we should all consider that such a important three ministries should be interviewed in one day, which, now, ministers are entering this Parliament one day a year, I think, in a broader calendar, with better negotiating opportunities, at a wider time. The Ministry of Internal Affairs budget is being discussed today. It's a day when the Home Secretary has to come to this House and defend what he's done, answer questions, and answer questions. We, the Republican People's Party, expect answers from both the Justice and Development Party and the Minister. It's April 21, 2019, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0331par0015	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0330par0016	On 21 April 2019, Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu faced an organised lynching attempt at the Barbuk, where he went to attend a martyr's funeral. Minister Sulejman Noble and his staff have severe negligence and flaws before, during, and after this event. The following is: Mr. Süleyman Soylu, on June 27, 2018, I instructed my citizens that the presidents of the CHP should not be taken to martyrs' funerals. Then, during the March 31st local elections, the Secretary of the Interior is the only one in the Cabinet who isn't going to do it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0331par0018	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0330par0019	In the future, he will be appointed as Minister of State, who, if elected, is the closest, the most direct minister in the municipal elections, who has claimed to be a very strict propaganda language, especially in Ankara and then the Istanbul elections, and I would like to ask you not to step on it, even if the candidates have been disturbed, spoken, written, written, but written down, until the day of April 21st, when the incident took place, with the mouth of Mr. Minister, our party, our President, until 31st March, was associated with a number of terrorist organizations, such as the Engagement Council of Ankara and then the Istanbul elections.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0331par0021	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0330par0022	A Home Secretary, who should be dealing with issues like this, instigation, targeting, that sort of thing, has created an atmosphere like this before. There were statements made that day as if there were no missions and then that crime was being lynched by our president. For example, think of it as an event like this, you guys -- if we go back to the Justice and Development Party -- we're going to export the members of Omar Steel. He said, "You haven't made it clear to the public. If you have a cold, if something happens to you, we wish you well, especially if it's all good news, we haven't heard a single word of grief. Some of your ministers gave me the message, friends, and said, "Disperse," and made the lynching look like a message. The statements used by Mr. Süleyman Nobleman were directly blaming the President and the security team, the Interior Ministry staff.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0331par0024	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0330par0025	It's over, Mr. President. Don't get me wrong, Mr. Secretary, I said that you should be here while I begin my words, and we should have these discussions in your presence, so don't think that in my absence he entered into this subject. I mean, I wanted to express it. And at that point, we reported a lynching group, organized by the accidental display of those whose intentions were so obvious, by the appearance of those who hoarded iron bars from the hills, by the hands of the dispersals, by the fingers of individuals, by forcing Mr. President Kemal Kılıçdaroglu to squeeze and lead him towards lynching, and we sent this. We're sorry, we're taking advantage of it, we'll fix it if there's something missing. They've issued a report against the report, instead of saying, "It'll comfort us and Turkey." Still, look, there's no prisoner.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0332par0029	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0330par0030	For Osman Sarıgül, many real people from the Justice and Development Party are not alone; the commender, Uncle Osman is not alone. Those who stood in line to kiss his hand where he was going to testify, those who shared it... we waited for the voice of a statesman. It's a criticism, it's a fight, it's a promise, but what do you mean, lynching at a martyr's funeral? What do you mean, violence? What was it like with the leader of the main opposition party, who was at the third point in this country's protocol? I consider it done to my president. In honor of our honor, I say here, if there were a fifth of this to any General President, the first statement of sadness would come from the Republican People's Party and our first statement would be made to our own President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0332par0032	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0330par0033	Mr. President, my last words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0332par0035	Here, Mr. Special, finish your words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0333par0036	Mr. Free, where did you come from?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0330par0037	We're in the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget. The words before the Minister, the mediocre, psychological environment he created, the direct target, the weaknesses of that day's protection...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0333par0039	Mayor, is that the way it is?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0334par0041	Guys, are we going to interfere with the words of the Group Vice Presidents here, too? Go ahead, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0335par0043	Look, if you'd listened to it, it wouldn't have gone on again, you're dragging it out for nothing, don't talk shit. Look, our heart is burning, for God's sake, don't underestimate it, don't underestimate it, sit down! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, apologising... the language Mr. Home Secretary used earlier that day... with the average and psychological atmosphere he created... with the weakness of the staff of that day's Interior Ministry... And on that day, Police Director Celal Longkaya, who acted as the only statesman, says: "I won't let him into this house without chewing on my body."
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0334par0047	Here you go, Mr. Special. Let me have your last words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0336par0049	Mr. President, how long are you going to open it?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0334par0050	Mr. Can, what do you want?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0336par0051	I don't know how long you're gonna open it! Is there a time limit?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0337par0052	Ramadan Can, for God's sake, stop!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0334par0053	Mr. Special, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0336par0054	That's not gonna happen! There's no limit. It's the Civil Code!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0337par0055	We're done. What's it to you? Wait, the president's running it!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0338par0056	That's not the agenda!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0337par0057	And on that day, Police Director Celal Longkaya, a real statesman -- I don't know which political opinion he is -- says to the mother who gave birth to him, "You can't go in without chewing on my body."
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0339par0058	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0337par0059	This person will be relieved of duty 20 days after using these statements. We expect explanations and apologies. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0340par0062	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0341par0065	Mr. President, of course, there's a budget meeting schedule. At this point, Mr. Group Vice President's concerns about them, about our country, of course, are worth discussing, and they need to be discussed. However, it is important that such an important matter -- it is important for them, it is important for our country -- be judged in every way. For him, I think you should take care of the procedure here. So at this point, our other Group Vice Presidents will, of course, have a say, but if they come up on schedule in accordance with the meeting schedule, then, after Mr. Secretary's speech, the Group Vice Presidents will make statements about what they consider important to them. At this point, I'd like our work to continue in accordance with the interview schedule.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0340par0066	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Noble, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0342par0069	Mr. President, thank you again very much. Very respected lawmakers, I've been doing the Ministry of Internal Affairs for over three years. Every morning, I wake up with her sadness, which means I feel responsible for having a car accident.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0343par0072	Lies!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0342par0073	If you don't turn me on...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0344par0074	Who's turning you on? No, no one's turning me on.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0345par0075	Mr. Noble, go ahead, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0346par0077	No, there's a lie for him. Before the incident on the stick, many incidents occurred in Turkey. Mr. Kilicdaroglu has taken a step that has never happened in Turkey's political history. Ankara has taken a march from İstanbul. The elements that wanted to bring Turkey into chaos, of course, could exploit the march, provoke it, and perhaps bring us all a regretful outcome in Turkish political life. Our entire police department... and the march was a direct anti-government march that said there was no justice, no law in Turkey. Our mission is to ensure the peace and safety of 82 million people in Turkey. I wish Tekin Bingol were here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0347par0079	Here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0346par0080	I don't know, he was just here. Together with Mr. Tekin Bingöl, our friends and we, step by step, hour by hour, secured the safety of that march and were able to deliver it to Istanbul in a healthy manner, as a result of a rally. The events and pre-existing events on the stick... it's very natural, we're all doing politics, you may consider me a appointed Minister, but I'm a member of the EC PARTY... and I'm a commissioner of the largest congressional convention and I'm honored by it, and I'm a member of my party. (EC PARTY) And like everyone else, the Constitution -- we don't need to discuss this here -- doesn't take away the authority of a party or a government minister to do politics today. Oh, you're Parliament, this is the right of the House; Parliament can change the Constitution, take the ministers' rights, just like you said, and say, "I made you an officer here, you can't get another right beyond that. But even in this thing, I'm willing to put my will on the election. It was the stick thing. I should be the one who's most upset about the stick thing because it happened during my Ministry of Internal Affairs. No Home Secretary would want a Main Opposition Party president to face such an event in his day; I personally would not have it, but this has happened. You just said: "No one has expressed his sorrow." On the contrary, I went out and expressed my sorrow. I'm the one who reached out from Istanbul to the Chief of Police who reached out to the Ankara Police Commissioner, who reached out to the relevant police commander, who reached out to everyone there and gave instructions on the matter. I drove to Ankara immediately before I even got on the plane, so I didn't have to wait for the flight time, so I went straight to Ankara. In the meantime, all the measures that can be taken to all of our friends... but for the sake of God, we've uncovered a report here... that claims that each of your claims in the CHP's Stick report is unreal. I'll send it to you now. So as of tomorrow, I'll send you this report. There's nothing subsidizing about any bet. Our friends studied it, and your claims worked, and there was only one thing that had to be done: the guards there in time... we're going to a martyr's funeral at the Stickuk. You appreciate -- we're all politicians -- if you love your God, do we all go everywhere?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0348par0084	Shouldn't we go, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0346par0085	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Let's not talk about it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0086	Mr. Emir, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0346par0087	So, we're all going everywhere? When you have to go to some villages, they say, "Mr. MP, don't go there." Or "Don't get in contact with this person here." We're politicians, we're people, there's people behind us, there's people behind us, the conjunctive won't allow it. In a time when Turkey's fight against terrorism is at its most intense -- yet forgive me -- the climate of an alliance that emerged during the election with HDP (HDP) -- comes up on the political floor after it's been very corrupted, of course, requires a bit of everyone's self-preservation in some issues. And the precaution is not not not not to go. Let us know, we'll take care of all that's out there -- wherever we've done it, how we've done it, where we've done it, how we've done it. But the CHP Group knows much better than I do that I'm saying this here -- unfortunately, there was a climate of weakness protected by the guards, and on all the levels of the CHP, this, very clearly, has been spoken many times before this happened. There have been many times, and there have been problems -- let me tell you one thing -- there has to be a call to the Ankara Police Department, and we're going here. It has to be said. Compared to this, we have not taken measures, reasonable measures, but there are all of them -- beyond hundreds of other protections -- what will happen to you, Mr. National Defence Minister Hulusi Akar, Mr. National Education Minister, Mr. Fatih Şahin, Vice President of the National Movement Party, all of which have made an effort not to lead to any other outcome there, but we have been provoking this, we have been leading Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu to it, and we have been providing it to Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0089	Mr. Secretary, wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0346par0090	I want to say once again that that's not true, and that's not true in history, that's wrong, that we're taking the most precautions every time they tell us about the measure. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0093	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0096	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0098	Mr. President, there's even Levent Gök, Deputy Speaker of Parliament, and I've informed the Ministry of Interior on the phone that I'm going to accompany your counterpart, Bizzat, the President General.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0351par0099	Look, there's no way. There is no way that Levent Gök would report it to the Ministry of Interior.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0100	Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0101	Moving on. Mr. Secretary, you won't be able to make a sound while we're talking.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0103	Mr. Special, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0104	Two: With information from our head of protection who is supposed to protect our president, as our own report states, first planned on Saturday, then taken from Sunday afternoon and then taken from the stick center to the village, the funeral of our friend in the guard at night...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0106	Pick it up, please, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0107	...calling his contact at the Ankara Police Department, we're thinking of coming tomorrow, it's a good chance we'll come. It's obvious that this situation was reported as he left the house. If there's nothing going on, if there's a martyr's funeral -- even if it's not three phones -- Mr. President Ankara will go to the martyr's funeral in Ankara -- and the Minister of Interior knows it best -- he'll leave with both hands in blood. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has nine people, the minister, the president, the main opposition leader, the leader of the political party, and 10 people between the future and the future.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0108	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0109	Mr. President, let's just say the names are in the report. One of the names you're saying is that when the President puts out his hand, he doesn't give his hand, so he turns on the people behind him.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0111	Let's turn on the microphone, but I'll take your last words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0112	One of them turns his head to the air and ignores the general president's hand. One of them took the microphone and received your message. He legitimizes it as a message. Mevlüt Karakaya, my witness at the back of his dialogue with Karakaya, said, "Yes, we were in the room together." For example, we cannot deny the existence of Mevlüt Karakaya.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0113	Mr. Special, let's wrap this up, your last sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0114	But here's the thing.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0115	Mr. Special, without further ado...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0116	...If you accuse the CHP of co-operation with terrorists, and you constantly identify with the terrorist organization and CHP, then you will remain in this position when we tell you about your weakness as Home Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0118	Mr. Special, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0119	Besides...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0120	I'll take your last word.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0350par0121	The last sentence: the president of the People's Party of the Republic also called the Chief of Police in person. The note came from the friends, so let me make it clear.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0349par0122	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0352par0123	The flag of the martyr's house is from the CHP County Building, Mr. President. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0353par0170	Dear lawmakers, we will now begin our speeches on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. The first word is Mr. Ismail Sun.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0354par0173	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Health of Health of the 2020-Year Centre Management Budget Proposal. I hereby salute our beloved nation and your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, the benefit of the health services provided in one country is an indication that all citizens, on the other hand, have a high share of social security, that the country has reached an important distance for both democratic and economic and social state. In order to raise healthy generations and protect the health of society, we spend $1.8.6 billion on health care from the budget of 2020 of $1 trillion 95 billion. In 2002, we raise this rate to 17.2 percent in 2020, when the total budget's health rate is 11.3 per cent. In 2020, we set aside 98.4 billion dollars for treatment spending, 47.3 billion for drug spending, and $10.5 billion for our family physicians. Dear lawmakers, there has been a significant change and transformation in health during the time of our governments. As a result, all public hospitals, except for university hospitals and private hospitals, have been assigned to the Ministry of Health, where hospitals have been given a standardized standardization of patient rooms, intensive care rooms, O.R.s, dialysis services, and emergency services. In addition, new regulations have been made regarding hospitals, which units, tools, and equipment should be found according to their classrooms. Through this restructuring, 636 new state hospitals and 378 additional buildings were built in many of our counties and districts -- as was the case with Hakük. In addition, our number of intensive care beds has been increased from 869 to 16,887. Our number of burn units has been increased from 35 to 554. (Applause from the EC PARTI) While our number of beds fell from 24.8 per cent to 27.9 per cent, our qualified number -- that's very important -- has been raised from 19 to 145 thousand, which is from 6 per cent to 78 per cent. In 2023, we'll raise our qualified number of beds to 100 percent. Palaative treatment centers have been activated and are provided with 5.360 palliative treatment beds and palliative treatment services. In the interest of protecting the patients' rights, the patient's satisfaction and patient satisfaction have also been appreciated as the patient's rights unit has been established. Dear lawmakers have been given the opportunity to practice family medicine in the first stage of health care, while physicians and patients have been given the opportunity to get to know and follow the doctor more closely, while our citizens in the rural area have been provided with services where they sit. Again, in this scope, the prescribed drugs have been made available directly to the citizen. The rate of inoculation across the country has been increased from 96 per cent to 98 per cent. Again, in newborns, we have early detection and treatment by doing phenylketonide, cystic fibrosis, hypothyroids, biotinidase, adrenal hyperplasia and hearing scans. The fight against cigarettes has been made, and our citizens who want to quit smoking are given all kinds of support and services. The scans conducted by our CETEM units have been conducted in the fight against cancer and early diagnostics. Healthy living centers are served in 16 types of services in 202 centers, such as common cardiovascular diseases, hypertension, ▪Diabetes mellitus, oncological diseases, psychological diseases, and the field of dealing with obesity. In 2020, we aim to reach 8 million citizens by raising our number of healthy living centers to 285. On the other hand, there was a change of mentality and management in emergency services, where 82 million citizens were served for seven days and 24 hours. Not only did we increase our number of ambulances to 5,469, but also a snow palette ambulance, an obesity ambulance, a transport ambulance, a helicopter ambulance, an air ambulance, and a marine ambulance were deployed at the same time. Today, in our country, we offer emergency services that many countries cannot offer for free. It is not only the citizens of our country but also the citizens of the world who have come to our country on various occasions. In 2012, 1 million, 427,000 people were offered home health care with health care in our home. The study of tissue and organ transplants was established in 2019 by the local and national bank of bone marrow.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0355par0187	Finish your words, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0354par0188	On the other hand, we allow people to access their health information and share it with their physician through e - pulse. By creating a memory of health, we'll be free of repeated tests and radiological examinations. Again, in the same way, we put a great deal of emphasis on oral and dental health. With 11,000 dentists, 31 oral and dental hospitals and 132 oral and dental clinics are given all kinds of treatment. We can't finish in five minutes. Dear lawmakers, during the time of the AK PARTI power, let the people live. I owe thanks to our ministers and to our valued health workers, especially our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been brought to life in health care and transforming our country. I wish our health department's 2020 budget would be a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0356par0193	Mr. Ismail Tamer, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0357par0194	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the great saintly Turkish nation watching us on their screens, I'd like to start by welcoming you all. Today I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of 2020 of the Ministry of Health and Turkey's Borders and Coastal Health Directorate. I salute you all again. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Health Department has important tasks for its private budget, public corporate personality, the Department of Health of Haziz Borders and Coastal Health. Among these tasks is to take all necessary health measures in the area of international entry points and customs, and also to assess, assess, supervise, assess international importance, to assess, to assess, to assess, to determine control over public health diseases. The World Health Organization, the International Maritime Organization, is an important organisation that has carried out this task with other health organizations along with the International Civil Aviation Organization, along with our Turkish Straits, border beaches and beaches. Since the two centuries since the Ottoman Empire, I hope our company's 2020 budget will prosper. Yeah, we're saying we revolutionized health. We've expressed our revolution on every platform. There used to be knife money, hostages, tail lines at night clinics, pharmacy tails, et cetera, et cetera. Along with them, we've made a revolution in my transformation into health. You know where we actually made the real revolution? We did it in minds, with our country changing minds in health care. During my chief of staff, there were five feet of wall between Kayseri State Hospital and SEC Hospital, and five feet of fence on top of it. I'm telling you, as a man who destroyed these things, this is where we made the revolution. At that time, as throughout the country, our esteemed minister came, and when we broke down the walls of Berlin, it was the most important sign of what we called it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My fellow lawmakers, I'd like to express here what a taxi driver with a microphone on a local TV said. How did you find the wall, how did it fall down? I don't want it, I want the walls in the health field to collapse in the minds. I want everyone to take advantage of all the hospitals and take advantage of the pharmacies. That revolution, along with my transformation in health, has been ruled by the EC PARTY, and we continue to serve you. You have a lot of criticism about city hospitals. Look, guys, at Ankara City Hospital, five transplants can be done at the same time. You know what that means? In such a short period of time, Turkey was the only country in the world where five heart surgeries, lung transplantation, kidney transplantation, liver transplantation, and also cornea transplantation were performed by city hospitals. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Happiness rate has risen to 96 per cent in city hospitals. The working satisfaction rate was low; along with city hospitals, they reached 90 percent.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0358par0204	You promised me you'd give me the contract, I'm waiting.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0359par0205	Mr. Akar, please take your seat.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0358par0206	Ismail Abi promised me that he would give me the contract.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0359par0207	Mr. Akar, please, your seat was very good.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0360par0208	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, I would like to stress the violence of health here, and I condemn the violence of health. In fact, we condemn all that is in the name of violence, violence, and violence of women in society. Many studies have been done in that regard. In particular, Professor Ibrahim Suat Ökktem has a study of violence in health at Kayseri Ercies University. His conclusion, he says, is that we will focus on education, education, education. We will focus on strong education in health.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0361par0209	There's no more training, so we'll talk tomorrow.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0360par0210	Also, look, there's something important here: patient somewhere, doctor on the other side, on the cliff. When he shoots the doctor, he'll go to the cliff. So what we're stressing here is that it's not really a party about preventing violence in health, and I actually think that all parties support it, and I think you all are, aren't you, fellow lawmakers? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] From that point of view, I wish for violence in health to end from now on. I wish that the 2020 budget would bring blessings to our health department, to our country. My respects to all of you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, dear President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0362par0216	Ismail Abi, you promised me the contract, you'd bring it, you didn't bring it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0363par0217	Mr. Akar, please take your seat. Mr. Selim Gültekin, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0364par0220	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in the fifth round of the 2020-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal on behalf of our EC PARTY Group regarding the budget for Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Foundation. I salute our holy nation and the Veterans' Council. Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device is an institution that regulates, oversees, documents, and does sanctions for many products that directly touch human health and body, such as drugs, pharmaceutical products, traditional treatment products, cosmetic products and other foods, in line with the policy and goals of our Ministry of Health. The continuation of a holistic drug and medical device strategy that prioritizes the production of drugs, vaccines, serums and medical devices, provides and strengthens public, university and industry co-operation and strengthens the RD climate, is the most important responsibility of the Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medicine. So, our Turkish Association for Medicine and Medical Devices aims to make Turkey a self-sufficient country in medicine, in vaccines, in medical equipment, and in the field of biotechnology and medical technology, with the intention of nationalisation in accordance with its 1 1 1st Development Plan 2023 goals. As a result of the study, we have been able to produce 83 percent of every 100 canisters of medicine that we consume in our country today in our own pharmaceutical industry. Our country has achieved an important success in local pharmaceutical studies, one of our most important strategic targets. The export of pharmaceuticals in 2018 increased by 32 per cent compared to the previous year, setting a record, making it $1 billion, 173 million. Today, we export to more than 100 countries, including major producer countries of the industry. We are now taking our place in rapidly developing technology around the world. The first in the field of health, and thanks to our drug tracking system (ITS), which we exported to other countries, the fight against unsafe medicine has been a success since 2010. In the same way, the Product Tracking System (UTS) and medical equipment and cosmetic products have also been able to sign a principle in the world and provide the most reliable and comprehensive monitoring. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as EC PARTY, we take care of health. Our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was led by our EC PARTY from 2002 to today's day when he came to power, so that the state could live. The Health Transformation Programme, which he implemented with his motto, has signed the revolutionary reforms that the world has modeled for in health. In 2002, the health budget was $13.5 billion, and in 2020 it increased nearly 14 times to 188.6 billion euros, compared to 2002. In light of many reforms, the level of satisfaction in health care increased in 2002 by 30 percent, while today by 70 per cent to 80 per cent. In addition, Turkey is on its fast track in health tourism with improving quality in health. According to the recent Human Development Report 2019, Turkey, for the first time, has risen to the category of very high human development under the influence of many reforms in healthcare during our rule. Mr. President, it has increased the momentum our Niğde Ömer Halisdemir University has gained in health care by deciding to establish the school of dental medicine at the University of Niğde Ömer Halisdemir, under the decree signed by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan on November 10, 2019. I'd like to give you some good news to our fellow citizens here: with the approval of our health minister, Mr. Fahrettin Koca., hopefully, in the first months of 2020, right next to our existing hospital, within about 142,000 square metres, with a burn unit, cardiovascular surgery, adult-child emergency, newborn care units, we'll begin construction as soon as possible. May Niğde be blessed with good luck. On behalf of our President and Mr. Health Minister, I want to thank you on behalf of all the Nüdenes. Again, I'd like to state from here that the work of the Department of Health has been carried out by the New Dental Medicine Department, which will be held by the Nüğde oral and dental hospital and the physical treatment and rehabilitation hospital to our Bor district. In addition, a total of three family health centers will be launched in 2019 from the Ministry of Health's central budget, including 2 to Niğde headquarters and 1 to our Bor district. On this occasion, Niğde told our colleagues that we would be followers of medical work, while Mugla condemns the attack on three pharmacies in central Mentesh district, and I wish my colleagues well. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0365par0232	Finish your words, please, Mr. Gültekin.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0364par0233	I wish that the planned budget for 2020 of the Turkish Institute of Medicine and Medical Devices will be used in efforts that will be of great benefit to our country, with these feelings wishing that Turkey's budget for 2020 will be good for our country and our nation, and I salute our fellow citizens, our beloved nation, and the Veterans Assembly, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0365par0235	Mr. Mustafa Esgin, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0366par0237	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2020, with respect to the General Assembly. The President of the Turkish Health Institutes (TUSEB) was founded in 2015 to produce information in the field of health science and technology to serve our country and humanity. It is a relevant organisation of our Ministry of Health, which is based on free competition in the field of science and technology, doing scientific research and supporting under the principles of transparency and equality. TUSEB will provide evidence information and products in health care, and will perform scientific studies and research projects, which will contribute to localisation and nationalization of strategic products, drugs, vaccines, medical equipment and diagnostic kits. As part of the project's call, TUSEB supported individual and transformative medicine-based co-operation projects. These projects form the main backbone of the Turkey Genom Project. With the omic data available under the Turkish Genome Project, the development of products that can be effective in early detection, treatment and prevention of rare diseases such as cancer, ALS, SMA and DMD. To this end, the Project Genom of Turkey was launched to cover genomic analysis of more than a hundred individuals in total. Through these projects, socioeconomic burdens from these diseases can be removed by developing and improving diagnostics and treatment methods. Mr. President, from the first day we came to power, we created a world model in health with the Health Transformation Programme we put into practice. I want to talk about three parameters of this model. Yes, first of all, we've assembled all health organizations under the umbrella and organization of the Ministry of Health, and we've called it co-authorization, and we've given health guidance. Yes, in health, we went to the world's destination in the first place, and we implemented the family medicine system. Again, by reforming social security, we have gathered all parts of society under social security umbrellas. With revolutionary applications, according to TİK statistics, we've made significant improvements. Yes, to sum up these developments as follows: Our number of health and treatment institutions has increased from 2,825. In health care, we've moved the closed service area from 5.5 million square metres to 22.5 million square meters. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] We've increased the number of hospitals from 88,000 to 239, and we've increased it three times. We've increased the number of intensive care beds from 869 to 16,887, so we've increased it 20 times. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, we've increased the number of health workers from 378 thousand to 1 million 24 grand, so we've increased it threefold. The rate of baby death is very important, and we've reduced the rate of infant death to 6.8, which was 31.5 in 2002 in a thousand living births. At birth, the mother mortality rate was calculated at 100,000, and in 2002 it was 64, and we achieved a significant success by reducing it to 13.6, or 5 times that. Dear friends, in 2002, we raised their health satisfaction rates above the 70 percent in 2019. Dear friends, of course we've come up with a strategy for such important developments. The opposition is critical of city hospitals as they get the chance, but you should know, of course, we needed to strengthen our health infrastructure, and we've narrowed down the 49-year-old average of our hospitals to 13. There have been 10 hospitals in Turkey so far, with the concept of urban hospitals. One of them is in my constituency, Burma. Yes, a friend of ours from the opposition made an assessment of the city hospital in Burma. I'd like to invite him to come to Bursa. I wonder if the people from this city hospital are pleased, we'll see them together, and we'll evaluate them together. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, we find it very difficult to understand that the opposition is exploiting this success story through the financing model of city hospitals.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0367par0254	Do you know the contract, Congressman? Do you have a contract?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0368par0255	Mr. Esgin, finish your words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0367par0256	Do you have any idea how much cab fare from scholarship to City Hospital? You're the deputy there. 150 lira.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0368par0257	Mr. Hawk, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0369par0258	If you listen, I'm telling you the truth.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0368par0259	Question and answer later, Mr. Hawk. You can ask there.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0370par0260	Look, it's $150 at the Bursa City Hospital from downtown.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0369par0261	We're building a hospital, you're objecting.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0370par0262	Do you know the contract? Do you know the contract? Look, nobody here knows about the contract.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0369par0263	We're building the world's fourth largest drawbridge, the Osmangazi Bridge, you're objecting. Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge. We make Marmarai under the strait, and we make Eurasian Tunnel, and you protest again. We're integrating Istanbul and Izmir. We're building a highway. You object to the most important projects in the history of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0370par0264	The contract, Congressman... the contract...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0369par0265	It seems that you want to impress our nation with the illusion of perception by displaying opposition over the unjust and unfair demeaning of the services of our power. To this day, we have done these inspired services from our beloved nation, and we will continue to do so. I commend your perception games to the glory of our beloved nation, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0371par0267	Mr. Sami Cakir, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0372par0268	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization of the Management Budget Proposal for 2020. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. I wish the budget figure, envisioned as 2 billion 827 million 733,000 Turkish liras, would be good. I believe that this budget figure will be spent in the future today's future through a mission of environmental, urbanism, environmentalism, design, soul, understanding, past-viewing, planning, production, transformation and environmental management to provide sustainable environments for the vision of habitable environments, life quality and sustainable environments. A few sentences from yesterday to today would be helpful to hum human, city, and environmental relations. The incentive for development, incentives and urbanization has caused urbanization to become a serious focus, and the need for an identityed, human-oriented, green, reliable, and viable city planning has become a more important target every day. A city in which everything is in its proper place is a city of justice, says the Wise Architect Turkut Cansever. Ibn Haldun reminded us centuries ago that homes, buildings, cities, even clothing, eating habits, even the role of the human personality and identity of a dominant being were affected and affected. First of all, with the city, tissue and chemistry that history has produced, and civilization has grown, there must be a place where people can fulfill their reason for living in that city. So the city will be as much a place of life and life as human beings can be. It shouldn't be so wrong to build cities that are ready for disasters, who are identified and who are smart, and how the Ministry can fully reflect its principles into life. How can the environment and the city be adapted to the quality of our people's lives? Any work done and done in connection with disaster-sensitive settlement, protection of natural and cultural beings, urban transformation, technical and social infrastructure, local development, urban awareness, governance and local governance will be as rewarding as the success of projecting community, environment, and urban harmony and beauty into life. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The 11th Development Plan, government programmes, medium-term programmes, strategy documents, immersive locations, in addition to improving the quality of our people's life in cities and rural areas with sustainable environmental philosophy, we should also be carrying within us the awareness of environmentally sensitive behavior, which will increase the spirit structure. These issues we're talking about mean nothing more than wanting everyone to be united, to have everything in its place. This means setting up a free, healthy, safe, and high standard of living social environment where individuals can improve themselves. The AK PARTY authorities have endeavored to be the enforcer of this philosophy, and I would like to renew my belief that it will continue to apply. No matter what we do, there is little compared to what needs to be done. What we call a subject can only boast about environmental sensitivity and those sensitivities. The obligation to protect the environment is to accept that living and lifeless beings can't live together and in their natural habitat, without living beings. It must be the same feeling in the 746th year of the Vuslat, that carries the path of the words of the Lord from ages beyond: see the nature that wears greens on the vineyard. See the nature that opens a flower shop on every corner. The roses laugh at the nightingales. Shut up, shut up and see nature. We believe that the ministry will bring forth these feelings and approaches in this budget use, amongst all those expressed. And he says, "May it be good for you to have a budget for tomorrow, where a man has the city, the environment, the city, and the environment, where he has the environment, where he should be, and I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation."
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0373par0277	Mr. Necip Nasser, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0374par0279	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate for 2020. I salute the Veteran Assembly. First of all, we condemn and deny the unsubstantiated decision of American imperialism, which has the blood of millions of oppressed people, who use it to distort the facts for historical political purposes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, whose roots are based on the Ottoman State and have a hundred and seventy-two years of long history, serve 30 million of our citizens by doing some 9 million transactions a year. The facility, which began with the declaration of the Republic, was completed by 2003 in 38,796 of 52,049 units across the country, while the work of 12.968 units was completed between 2003 and 19, and the property problem was solved across the country. Valuable lawmakers are being shared as part of the Law on Protection of Personal Data with municipalities, vocational rooms, banks and banks as part of the Law on Personal Data Protection, and are subsidizing data production of shared institutions, including a strategic e-government project, Tapu and the Kadastro Information System (Kadastro Information System) and over a thousand public institutions. With the Web Tap Project, companies registered in trade records with citizens are able to apply for transactions online and send their necessary documents through the application. The Web Tap Project has also been launched into public institutions and has been moved to electronics, completely decrypted from public property managers. The property transactions of our citizens have been created not only from the property managers of which their properties are registered, but from their closest title managership. Processing for the transfer of property between buyers and vendors in foreign diplomatic missions and foreign administrations has been made possible. Our citizens have been given the opportunity to question the property registered in their names via e-government. The application system has been created so that our citizens can learn from online and mobile phones where their transactions are at. In order to reduce the bureaucracy, the necessary arrangements have been made for sending architectural projects electronically, and the architectural projects for the process of multiple altitudes or floor ownership have been transferred to a total electronic environment. In addition, architectural projects bought electronically are shared with all the public institutions and institutions needed. While the price for the transfer of the property to the transfer project is being arranged by a secure exchange of hands, the Property Share Project is intended to provide accurate information in the sales transactions of the citizen and the citizen. Precious lawmakers will be created as part of the three-dimensional urban model production and the 3D Kadastro Advent Project, which began in 2019, with the production of three-dimensional city models in 40,000 square kilometers across the country, with the production of three-dimensional city models over a five-year period, the three-dimensional cadastro subbasement that citizens can see and measure all the details of the apartment they think to buy. The procedure required to meet the deed with the Turkish Register Directorate System will be transferred to available personnel across the country to complete operations more quickly, so if an employee in Bitlis is available in an application, he will complete the process.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0375par0291	If Malatya has it...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0374par0292	Malatiah will also complete it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0376par0293	Finish your words, please, Mr. Nasser.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0374par0294	The Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate is an institution that provides the fastest transition to the e-state and uses technology with all its resources and is the architect of quality and trust in Turkey. Mr. President, I would like to thank Mr. Murat Kurum, the Minister of Health, Dr. Fahrentin Kocayya, who has been successful in our country's 2023 vision, who has signed the stunning innovations, and who has played a major role in protecting both environmental values and in urbanization, on behalf of my nation's employees, Mr. Murat Kurum, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr. Murat Kurum, and Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I hope that the budget of the year 2020 will be good for our country, for our nation, and for the sake of this land, I bless and thank the faithful martyrs who gave their lives, and I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0377par0298	Mr. Mustafa Hilmi Dulger, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0378par0300	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my EC PARTY Group on the budget of our Ministry of Interior for 2020. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I pray to all of our bureaucrats who have been martyred for the unity of our country and our nation, to the members of our Security, Security, Gendarme and Turkish Armed Forces, to our rangers, and to our citizens, Genab. In addition, as the separatist traitors carry out their mission with explosives on the work table, our martyr, Derik Kaymakamad Safiturk, and Solhan Kaymaka, the late Ersin Fire, remember our counterpart with mercy, and thank all the owners of the property who were veterans during their duties, to our security officers. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the leaders of the community that have been in service since the establishment of our republic, since the establishment of our republic, in which our nation's life, property and integrity has been in its service, the successful enforcer of its development plans, its followers and its employees, its resources, and its social development in every area. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in our country, there is a constant need for property managers in order to ensure the establishment and order of law, to ensure the rule of law, to provide effective public services, and to exist in the future. Today, there are differences stemming from the international administrative structure, but the common ground is that public officials have been given important tasks to ensure that public services are well done. In accordance with the changing conditions of the day, as in many countries today, we are pleased to observe that new roles and functions are being given during the upbringing of property managers and that they are being subjected to service with age-appropriate knowledge and skill. Changes in public administration during the globalisation process, including this sentence, have also led to significant changes in the roles of property managers. Therefore, today the managers of the estate have proven themselves once again as the mechanism that guarantees the healthy functioning of local democracy. Mr. President, I'd like to stress here in particular that the protection of the unitary state structure, which finds its testimony in the Constitution, should be understood as a will to live together. Today, understanding that the right to live, economic interests, social and cultural values, the way of life must be maintained and improved as much as the rest of the state. Here are the managers of the estate who never hesitate to sacrifice their existence for this purpose. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the property managers, maintain the reputation of our profession, not by the behavior that confirms the news we hear in the press or in various environments, but by the dignity of a statesman. When we look at the education and formation process taken by property managers, we are pleased to see that our interior ministry is going through an extremely good education process with its firm and proper applications. Mr. President, I would like to point out that in the coming period, the morale and motivations of the colleagues will be increased by the results of the work done at the Ministry headquarters regarding the closure of the financial gap between them with some of their professional officers as a result of developing and changing circumstances. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I thank all the members of the Interior Ministry who are working to ensure that our citizens live in peace and security, free of fear and anxiety, and I wish that the budget of 2020 would be a blessing to the Ministry of Interior, to our country and to our nation, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0379par0311	Mr. Metin Steel, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0380par0313	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the Police General Directorate for 2020. I salute our holy nation and our Veterans Assembly. With the number of personnel reaching 305,328, our Security Department continues to work with a high profile in order to ensure the safety of our citizens' lives and property and general security. With the increase in employment of the market and neighborhood watchmen, which will go up to 30,000 with the 8,242 guards in progress, there has been a significant reduction in the crimes committed against their assets. As part of the fight against terrorism, in 2019, 12,125 suspects were taken into custody in 115 thousand operations against the separatist terrorist organization, 2.152 were arrested, 972 terrorists were neutralized. 700 suspects have been detained in 374 operations against left terrorist groups, 159 have been arrested, 52 terrorists have been neutralized. 2,698 suspects have been taken into custody in 1,250 operations against the DEA, 860 have been arrested, 283 terrorists have been neutralized. Since 15 July, more than 245,602 people have been taken into custody and more than 27,000 people are still under arrest. The fight against terrorist organisations continues decisively and uninterruptedly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, on this stand, there are beautifications to terrorists, and on the one hand, civil killings have been alleged, which are completely absurd, incompatible with the facts. Our security forces are really sensitive to these operations, and because of their sensitivity and care, the duration of the operations is spreading to months, and unfortunately many of our security guards are being killed because of the explosives that have been set up. In addition to these operational efforts to eliminate terrorism, lawmakers continue their awareness and persuasion efforts. In this framework, 995 thousand people have been reached so far, and since 2016, 570 terrorist groups have surrendered as a result of their convincing work with 5,183 families. Police Special Ops units, which have signed numerous operations against terror and organised crime organizations since its establishment, have reached the highest level with qualified training and equipped modern vehicles, weapons, and equipment. Police Special Ops personnel serve side by side with our Turkish Armed Forces, jointly, voluntarily and selflessly in the operations carried out within the country, as well as abroad. I wish all our martyrs God's mercy, health and pleasure to our veterans who sacrificed their lives for the future of our nation. Congressmans, drugs have been seized at high rates this year, as has been done in recent years by our police forces in the fight against drugs. In order to ensure citizen custody and contribution in the fight against drugs, the Anti-Drug Appliation Project has been implemented since 2018. As a result of these studies, the lowest mortality rate in substance-related deaths in the last three years was in 2018. In 2019, this number went down even further, 182 as of now. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been arrested as a result of simultaneous peace practices throughout the country, both preventing crime and being wanted for various crimes. 86 per cent of the incidents of law enforcement in our country in 2019 have been illuminated. Again, crimes against property have reached a high level of lighting, such as 51 per cent, and the number of crimes has been reduced by close to 9%. As a result of other measures taken by increasing the number of security and law enforcement forces in schools, the incidents around the school in October 2019 and November have declined by 25 per cent compared to the previous year.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0381par0321	Finish your words, please, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0380par0322	As a result of effective traffic work, fatal traffic accidents have decreased by 24 per cent compared to the previous year. It has been developed to combat cybercrimes, and this year it has been processed about 14,000 users who are commenting and sharing pro-terror organization. Mr. President, after the economic attack on our country in August 2018, in a short period of time, I respectfully salute you all to the well-being of the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal, where interest and inflation have dropped rapidly, and the stock market has stabilized, and the optimistic prospects for our economy are rapidly increasing.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0381par0325	Mr. Mustafa Arslan, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0382par0327	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget of the General Command of the Ministry of Interior. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. In our nation's independent coming to this day, I remember our sainted martyrs and our heroic veterans fighting their lives, their blood, with gratitude and gratitude. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the biggest achievements of the new construction in our state, especially in our Ministry of Interior, after July 15th, is the integration of the Gendarme and Police. Under many security warheads, these institutions have their own abilities, and we can't put those skills together. Adding the Coast Guard Command to these two institutions, we can all do joint operations, share data with each other, and above all, we can work together towards the common goal. An immigrant is able to do or pursue drugs together by three institutions and get results. During this morning's session, we regretfully welcomed the comments and findings that the congressman made, especially using the concept that we considered sacred, such as the demoralization of our security units. As it is known, in 2016, a new structure was introduced to the Ministry of Interior of the Gendarme General Command, and it was decided that the banners of the regiment should be removed to the museum in the General Command. It is the gendarme who has made this decision, and it is the Ministry of Interior who has made this decision. The regiments, the troops, the commanders are not independent units. It's not right to reflect this incident as if it were a surrender, to try to get a trial out of here. This application was conducted in 2017. Cırırüt Komando Brigade Commander was appointed to the Constabulary Command in 2018 and later retired on August 30, 2019. I'd like to remind you that the application for starboard was made in 2017. In addition, Lieutenant Ahmet Yölmez....legal legislation has been imposed on him as a veteran....and he has been compensated for his severance pay. The lack of dental care is also due to the continued treatment of the jaws. He still has every legal right to be a veteran. The treatment will be completed as soon as possible, according to the medical calendar. Congressmans, the General Command of the Gendarme operates at 93 per cent of the country's territory, working with great sacrifice; at minus 30 degrees, at 3,000 altitudes, under all weather and climate conditions, it continues to fight terrorism without saying summer or winter. In the struggle since 1984, when our gendarmes and security forces had cleared their minds of traitors in military uniforms, of sale, of domestic and national weapons, they began to fight the end of terror on our land. Operation Peace Fountain was left with the ambitions of those who wanted to establish a terrorist state on our borders. Let the whole world know that we will never allow a terrorist state to be established on the borders of our country in northern Syria. I speak to those who are bent on treason over our beloved homeland, which is entrusted to us by our ancestors: this nation will give its life, but will not give it a pebble from this land, which is carved with the blood of martyrs. (ARK PARTY APPLAUSE), DEAŞ, PKK/PYD, whatever its name is, this nation has the power and the faith to crush all of its heads, no matter where terror comes from, no matter where it comes from. Dear lawmakers, in the EC PARTY's power, serious work has been done to ensure that the tools, equipment and ammunition used by our security forces are domestic and national. The 18 per cent of our local defence industry has reached 70 per cent these days. From the days when we paid for it, we couldn't afford weapons, we became a country that produces all kinds of weapons with its own means, local industry, and exports all kinds of weapons. Our pride has reached our military, trust in our friend, trust in our friend, fear of the enemy, with armed drones, domestic drones, domestic infantry and sniper rifles, ALTAY tanks, air defense systems, fighter missiles, warships and radar systems.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0383par0337	Complete your words, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0382par0338	Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who is a translator of our nation's feelings in the fight against terrorism, who shouts our country's stand against terrorism to the world, I give thanks to our Home Secretary, our Minister of Defense, our commanders and our heroic soldiers, our security forces. I wish you the best budgets of 2020, our General Command and all of our institutions, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0383par0341	Mr. Kadir Aydın, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0384par0343	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Coast Guard Command budget under the Ministry of Interior. First of all, on behalf of myself and my group, I salute your grand delegation and our holy nation. I'm thankful for Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who saved our yesterday with the fire he set on his path to independence and who gave light to our future. [[AK PARTY, CHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] I remember with mercy all our martyrs and our veterans who would not hesitate to give their lives and possessions to make this land our homeland. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] In the years of the War of Salvation, I also remember Topal Osman and Hussain Avni Alparslan, who worked hard to win the Battle of Salvation, and the patriotic sons of Giresun, who were more than 90 percent of the martyrs. Coast Guard Command operates by law in many areas such as providing safety and security in our blue homelands, carrying out search and rescue activities at sea, fighting irregular migration and smuggling, aid in natural disasters, strategic importance in protecting Haiz facilities, fighting illegal water products and marine pollution. In 2002, our Coast Guard Command carried out its duties with only four districts and six group commanders, two helicopters and 129 floating elements of various sizes, while today four districts, 13 groups, 4 outpost commanders, 14 helicopters with high-tech facilities, 3 planes, 4 coast guard guards and a variety of 180 floating elements serve our homeland. Mr. President, the precious MPs, our country is on the verge of a great revolution. Until recently, we would have looked with the eyes of others, but we could not see the truth, but we could listen with the ears of others, but we could not hear the truth with the heart of others, and we could judge with the mind of others, but we could not find the truth. We are now more ourselves than ever before, seeing with our own eyes, hearing with our own ears, and making decisions with our own mind. Instead of skating in the direction others have drawn, we are moving toward our goals both in our own direction and among the prayers of our nation, in the desperate gaze of opponents. As for the so-called Armenian genocide bill adopted by the American Senate, we don't recognize this decision, and we don't even know who made it. We don't believe in allied lies of those who took this decision, and we don't even know the Great National Assembly of Turkey, which decided to reject this decision, and we don't know the politics that, for whatever reason, do not stand up for the good of the nation, and we don't know the politics that don't stand next to the nation. Those who try to block our nation's march as a black stain in our history will never succeed. To sum up our nation's past in two words, these words are mercy and justice. Do you have any willpower toward some friends' ruling group? You do exactly what he says to the Ash. We bear witness to what he says. I wonder if that's true, and I think about it from time to time. However, when friends who have brought opposition into a way of life see the loyalty and compliment they give to their presidents, our faith and commitment to our leader is growing a whole new level. We ask to be known that we would never sacrifice our values, our position, to protect our position, which we have not sacrificed to achieve our position. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the government system of the presidency and the one-man regime of the government, change the name of the system's change of name, the murder of accidents, the war on terrorism, and the story of those who view cross-border terrorist operations as ▪ is not beyond the news of page 3 of some newspapers. If our nation had lived one tenth of the negative painting that these friends drew, we would not have been able to remain in power for 17 years without interruption. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd also like to address the hopes of the public and the AK PARTY opponents. You didn't hope for America; and when the tension came with Russia, you looked for help from here, and again it didn't; and all the resources that you hoped for from Macron to Merkel, and from Esed to YPG have dried up. Now your hope is left to the split grass that flourishes in the land of the AK PARTY. And I assure you, you won't find what you're looking for here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0385par0358	Mr. Aydın, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0384par0359	If you don't do this on purpose, you'll die of pain. Change your hope, seek God, and place your hope only on our nation. Those who set out with other people's dreams will never achieve their goals. I assure you, the longer you work, the faster we'll be. Thus, even if you are not in power, you will be able to contribute and contribute to our nation's greater service. With these feelings and thoughts, we welcome our beloved members of the Veteran Assembly, our heroic security forces, who are on guard at the border, our mothers of Diyarbakir, who are fighting to save their children from terrorism, who have not broken their stand to keep the nation's honor in the ground, and who have challenged our country's seven heifers, our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with respect and respect. Our budget is good, and our future is bright.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0385par0362	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0386par0365	Very briefly, I have some statements to decline. He says that the opponents of the AK PARTI prayed for help from America first, then from the United States, then from this one, and then he counts everything he can think of, and then he says: "We are now the opponents of the AK PARTY as the main opposition party." The enemy of the AK PARTY, the AK PARTY, is not in the interests of the people, but in the interests of some environments; in the policy that the outside forces have shaped according to orders and instructions, we are at the end of our opposition to the policies that are collaborating with foreign forces outside. Do not confuse us with another political tradition; we are the ones who cast the 6th Fleet into the sea in the Bosphorus; do not confuse us with those who cast stones at those who cast down the 6th Fleet into the sea, and prostrate themselves to the 6th Fleet.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0385par0367	Finish your words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0386par0368	But there is a fact: within your party there is the law of brotherhood among us in the past, the seed of hypocrisy... and if you're now beginning to call the so-called "weed," you're going to make those split grasses one candidate at a time, and then you're going to make them one by one by one, and then you're going to be the president of the general, and then you're going to get rid of them when they don't want you to be the leader.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0387par0370	How hard did he have to go?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0386par0371	If the language that their parties use against the 1st President, their party's 3th Prime Minister, is not caused by panic, if it's not due to a failure, then it's because of a lack of politics. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0388par0374	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0389par0377	Thank you, Mr. President. The AK PARTY, in its own direction and in its own direction alone, sees the fate of the nation as its own.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0390par0379	My destiny cannot be yours. Please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0389par0380	...and its political goal is a political move from its establishment to work with an understanding of improving the welfare of the nation by securing its future and future. So, just as we have fought corruption, poverty, and bans so far, we will continue to stand by the workers, the oppressed, the oppressed, the workers, the laborers, the tradesmen and 82 million saints. So I respectfully salute the General Assembly, saying that he would never agree to describe the AK PARTY with this lobby, to bring it together.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0391par0382	Thank you. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account Yes, Mr. Serap Yasar, Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0392par0431	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the General Directorate of Migration Management of the Management Budget of 2020. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. I would like to begin with the story of Rakka, who had been bombed from the air and land for months, and of his wife, Ayse, and of Wazzam, who had taken refuge in our country with his six children. In Rakka, the wife of Wazzam, our life was very difficult, there was no work, and my children were hungry. We thought it would be easier for us to die. Now sometimes I just sit there and cry while the kids sleep. How did we end up like this? What is this situation we are in? I ask myself, "What is this situation?" Despite all this suffering, our land says it's where we were born, that they've set out at least five times to return to their land. That's the country. It'll be missed, of course. You know, like our songs were said and said in our songs, I've grown weird, I've caught fire, I've taken fire, I've lost my heart, I've lost my heart, your hands have become a home to me. I wish that no one could get strange or live apart from their homeland, and everyone could live free and happy, in their homeland. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) (APPLAUSE) (APPLAUSE) (APPLAUSE) (APPLAUSE) (APPLAUSE) (APPLAUSE) Wazzam and his family are just one of the families who escaped death and took refuge in our country. With the total number of asylum seekers reaching 5 million today, we have more refugees than the population of many countries. For eight years, our country and institutions have offered asylum seekers all services from education to health in a sense of humanity and justice, while one immigrant child is lost every day in the world. In Europe, we have registered this painful situation with the report "Lost Migrants and Refugee Children" written by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe's Immigration Commission. Our report was unanimous at a committee meeting in Paris last week. I wish that this report would cause the whole world's interest in this wounded subject and the measures for these losses will be taken immediately. According to U.N. data, we are the world's most generous humanitarian country and the most accepted of displaced people. Since 2011, the Syrian crisis, which has become a symbol of global injustice, has led to the death of about 1 million people, the replacing of more than 12 million people, and the fact that half of them have to live abroad. More than 370,000 people have voluntarily returned to Cerablus, who had been de-terrorised, with the beginning of Operation Fırat Shield. At this point, Operation Fountain of Peace is the most important step we've taken towards a permanent solution to the immigration issue. With the safe zone created on this occasion, at first 1 million Syrian refugees, which we predict will reach 2 million, will return to their homes and their lands in safety and voluntarily. In fact, when this crisis first occurred in 2011, Mr. President's idea was to establish this safe zone at that time. If it had been accepted by the international community at the time, maybe there wouldn't have been so much pain, so much loss. All these services and humanitarian approaches, unfortunately, have turned the country into a refugee dump by the opposition, despite its accusations and efforts to make cheap political material, to target the oppressed. Happily for us, this mentality is not acceptable in the sight of our beloved nation. I believe it is a source of pride for all of us when the whole world is in the grip of racism and alien hostility. According to the Interior Ministry's data, between 2018-2019, Syria's involvement in crime is a factor of a thousand to eight, and they are given the necessary punishments within the framework of a fair trial. It's our greatest wish to see asylum seekers return to their land free of war and terror and enjoy their old happy lives. Although they are offered a safe life and services, we cannot tell them that we offer them a better life than their own home.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0393par0439	Mr. Yasar, finish your words, please, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0392par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that what we do for those who seek refuge in our country will not be limited to what we do today. Of course, having touched the lives of children, women of professions, who were born and trained in our land in history, there will be a positive return for us, except in the history of mankind and migration. I give thanks not only to those who seek refuge in our country, but to our President, who preaches on every platform from Arakans to Palestine, from Jordan to Lebanon, including the United Nations General Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank our Migration Administration Director Abdullah Ayaz and all the members of the Immigration Administration, who have taken this heavy responsibility to end my words, in a way that suits our civilization and our history, and who has worked sincerely, selflessly, and selflessly, without regard for time, especially Mr. Minister of Internal Affairs, and personally, all the members of the Immigration Administration, Abdullah Ayaz. I wish you all the best in the 2020 budget for our country.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0394par0446	Mr. Haci Bayram Türkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0395par0447	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0394par0448	Mr. Turkoglu, can I have your attention for a moment? Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0395par0452	Mr. President, I've been waiting a while for the Plan and Budget to take its place in the lines of the Commission, and now our Enlightenment Congressman Bekir Force Erim has taken his place there. The other day -- you weren't there -- two days ago, we reacted that a minister and a minister's deputy went from the General Assembly hall at the same time and didn't come for a long time.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0394par0453	I saw it on TV, yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0395par0454	At that time, Mr. Bekir had a statement made to the transcripts of the Force Erim.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0394par0455	He said where he was going.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0395par0456	I reacted harshly at the time, not knowing if it was him who said it or not, not knowing his duty. Born Kabbat -- thanks to him -- came to me, saying that he was one of the most regular members of the Plan and Budget Commission, and our friends said very positive things about him. As a teacher's child, I later felt deeply sorry for Teacher Bekir, who became a math teacher, and when he was there again, I was waiting to make up for what happened that day, and now there's an opportunity.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0394par0458	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0395par0459	I'm sorry I upset him. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0394par0462	If it wasn't for that explanation, he'd have run over you and me, you know, the rallyer himself. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account Mr. Turkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0396par0510	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of our Ministry of Interior's Disaster and Emergency Management. I salute you, dear members of our Veteran Assembly, and our beloved nation. Wherever there's a disaster, there's AFAD. In our country that has been in major earthquakes, the AFAD is part of our interior ministry. Turkey has suffered various disasters, such as landslides, floods, rocks falling and avalanches, especially earthquakes. The plans for 26 service groups in Turkey's Disaster Response Plan have been implemented in 81 counties on how to conduct disaster intervention by which institutions. In order to create safe living spaces against the earthquake, the AFAD updated Turkey's building earthquake regulations. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have gathered the disaster and emergency gathering sites set by AFAD municipalities in digital environment. Our citizens are able to access the location of their closest gathering sites via e-government and through the AFAD website. As part of Turkey's Disaster Intervention Plan, the cities are designated by relevant municipalities in the city's urban disaster and emergency directorates co-ordinating of disaster response plans. As of December 6, 2019 in Turkey, 16,581 concentration sites have been entered into the e-state system. In Istanbul, the disaster intervention plan has determined 2,864 concentration sites, with a face measurement of 16 million 894,891 square meters. The capacity of the gathering sites is 5 million,631,630 people. In addition, a total of 10,022 concentration sites are used when 7.060 schoolyards and 98 sports facilities are included in the assembly area. A total of 2,391,321 people, 478,265 families, were planned in Istanbul to be housed in tents, container spaces, schools, sports facilities, guesthouses, hotels, and so on. Today, Turkey has reached 1,100, with the number of national earthquake observatorys with AFAD (AFAD), working as the 2nd largest earthquake observation network in Europe. AFAD is the only authority to officially publicize earthquake parameters. As of 2019, 3,340 disaster housing are under construction as part of projects throughout the country. Tents found in the newly established AFAD logistical warehouses and the Kızılay warehouses are kept ready to be delivered to victims as soon as possible in a possible disaster. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are a system that aims to ensure sustainable and secure communication between the Afet and Emergency Management Centres in 81 counties and the joint ministry and institutions using fiber optics, GSM, satellite and radio infrastructure as backups. In our country, there are response teams in 81 counties for chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear events. The efforts of the national early warning system are under way in order to ensure that the danger news for disaster and emergencies is being carried out to the interested and public and that the siren systems are being spread across the country by local and national means.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0397par0518	Mr. Turkoglu, let me have your last words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0396par0519	The Republic of Turkey's state extends its hands of compassion all over the world today with a humanitarian aid accepted by the world. To date, humanitarian aid has been brought to 60 countries in five continents, including Somalia, Bangladesh, Syria, Palestine, Yemen, Sudan. The basic human needs, such as search and rescue, food, hygiene, health, and so forth, have been delivered to the oppressed geography, regardless of religion, language, race, and so on. The AFAD also operates in co-operation with the relevant institutions of the United Nations and the European Union on humanitarian aid and disasters, in global and regional areas. The budget for 2020 is 1 billion 637 million and 171,000 euros to achieve the goals and goals of the Ministry of the Interior's Disaster and Emergency Management. According to 2019, this budget has increased by 16 per cent.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0398par0523	Mr. Turkoglu, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0396par0524	As I pray for a prosperous and peaceful future, I wish that the budget of 2020 would be good for our country and our institutions, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit04spe0398par0526	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0398par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 33th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. The group's demands were met. Now the first word on behalf of the individuals is in Mr. Selman Oğuzhan Eser. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0399par0008	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and to the budget of our Ministry of Interior for 2020. On this occasion, I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. It is impossible to express an opinion on the work of our ministries, whose existence and activities are vital to our country. Nothing will ever be the same in our Turkey. We have come to today's powerful and great Turkey, thank God, from the dark days of the past with our staffs and staffs. In the past, our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which has been exemplary not only in our country, but also in the world, has reached the level of environmentally friendly ministry, which has taken nature and life into its center, from a ministry that has failed to perform its basic tasks in areas such as environment, zoning and control. As part of the Zero Waste Project, public institutions were given training in the deployment of waste banks and awareness of employees, bringing 269 tonnes of expendable waste into the economy in just two years. So 2,557 trees survived being cut down, 1.096 barrels of oil were saved, 31.1 tons of greenhouse gas emissions were blocked, 4.211 cubic metres of water were prevented. Again, our Ministry of Health has turned from the Ministry of Health, which can't even run the minimum health care that is vital to human beings, to the ministry of health, where human life has been ignored in hospital corners, to the ministry of successful and powerful physicians, who have jumped the age of healthcare with its latest technology, and have succeeded in making it among the best in the world. With its developing structure, Turkey has become a field of attraction, and health tourism prefers our country and physicians from all over the world for treatment. In just 2018, 551,748 visitors who came to Turkey for health and treatment paid an average of $2,013 per person. City hospitals, which have been built, and the service offered around here, are the greatest indicator of our value to man. When we think about the devastating effects of wars and acts of terror in our geography that have been rapidly expanding in recent years, our wives and children can still walk the streets safely, if they can live in peace in these lands, it's because of the self - sacrificing work of our interior ministry. In the past, it has become a ministry that has failed to use its potential and resources, which has fulfilled the need to be a state within the land of our homeland, to trust the sons of our country, to terrorize the traitors, our Homeland Ministry. All the work our ministries have done for our country's well-being, as we support the state budget, I would like to personally say that we are with you in harmony, in the noble struggle of our ministers, who have fought terror, human, nature, the destruction that they left over the environment, and on the other hand, did not tolerate separatist traitors. The common denominator of our ministry's work is human values, respect for the right to life of every creature created, and protect the natural life that can provide those standards. All of this is the content of mankind's search for a common place in history, a prosperous life in security and freedom. I'd like to thank you again from here on, our ministry, which has led our republic to the level of murky civilizations, in the service of a common quest for human development. In the Human Development Index, which was based on data from the United Nations Development Programme for 2018, Turkey was able to enter the highly human development category between 189 countries. We act with the awareness that to achieve further goals, every effort must be self - sacrificing.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0400par0018	Mr. Arter, finish your words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0399par0019	Because we began with our faith in this nation and in every work we've done as a blessing of a dedicated political movement in this country. Our faith is uncompromising and clear: love what is created, because of the Creator. With these thoughts, I wish to vote in favour of the budget of our current ministries, wishing that the budget of 2020 would be a blessing, and I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0400par0022	Now, the first word for the executive is for Mr. Fahrettin Koca. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0401par0025	Mr. President, I stand before you today as part of the 2020 Budget Law Proposal on the budget of the Ministry of Health and its subsidiaries for 2020 years and its final account for 2018 years. On behalf of myself and my Ministry, I salute you, our esteemed lawmakers, who follow us from the screen. First, I present Mr. Aylin Gutler, Mr. Avni Aksoy, Mr. Sefer Aycan, Mr. Muhittin Taşdoğan, Mr. Hayati Araz, Mr. Habip Abak, Mr. Semra Nice, Mr. Mehmet Göker, Mr. Bayram Yikaya, Mr. Ali Şurkan Kaplan, Mr. Avni Aksoy, Mr. Ismail Sun, Mr. Ismail Gültekin and Mr. Mustafa Esgin. Mr. President, good lawmakers, health according to Article 56 of our Constitution is a public service which the state takes direct or indirect responsibility for. As a ministry that has taken over the mission to ensure that everyone's health rights are protected and that everyone in need can easily access quality health care in their time and in their time, we are working to ensure that all our citizens have a healthy lifestyle. We are engaged in the pursuit of a sustainable health system that can reach the remotest part of society, which can lead the entire community to health, which is efficient, rightful, to respect the habits, beliefs, and expectations of our citizens. A secure service environment and strong patient-medicine communication are our priority.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0402par0032	Dear friends, slow down, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0401par0033	We aim to meet our citizens and health workers in environments where communication based on mutual trust and respect can be made healthy. As patients and medical staff, we are trying to create a service environment where both sides feel secure. Wherever our citizen needs immediate assistance, we get there in our land, sea and air ambulances, serving beyond our borders. It is our responsibility to prevent all addictions and abuses, including tobacco, alcohol, drugs, and technology, a vital requirement for a healthy future, and we will not compromise. We're taking steps to ensure that Turkey becomes an ambitious health tourism base, with the new USSH, the city hospitals that we've opened in a row, and our rapidly developing private hospitals. With a new dynamic, we hope to accelerate this field by calling for vaccines, local medicines and medical equipment to be developed and produced. Mr. President, good lawmakers, protective and basic health care from the Ministry of Health's basic duties has always been our priority. The budget for protective and basic health care increased by 3.8 times in 2002-2019 to about $18 billion. For the year 2020, the budget is up to 20 billion, 846 million liras. Our control rate for prenatal mother candidates has reached 99 percent. With early detection and treatment, our success rate has also reached 99% in our baby scans to prevent permanent injury, and our support for free iron and free vitamin D continues. We maintain our leadership in the world in the success of vaccination, compared to population size. As a result of these efforts, we are at the top of the world's fastest mother and baby death rate. We're among the countries that are implementing the largest inoculation program with 13 antigens under the extended Immunization Program. At a time when the rejection of the vaccine was discussed in the world and in our country, we raised our vaccine rates from 96 per cent to 98 per cent as part of our expanded Immunization Program. The first step is to strengthen health care with more than 24,000 family physicians and the same number of family health workers across the country. As in all developed countries, obesity has become a major problem in our country. Unfortunately, our children are also experiencing an increased frequency of obesity. Studies show that one percent of our four children are overweight or obese. We continue to implement the Healthy Feeding and Moving Life Programme by updating action plans for adult and childhood obesity. It is our duty to ensure our citizens' right to fresh air. We'll continue our fight against tobacco without ever letting go. From now on, cigarette packs have become one type, and there will be no more attractive elements on them. In this area, we became the seventh countries in the world. There is also a ban on selling cigarettes in health, sports and educational services. It is also forbidden to have any images that can carry the meaning of a cigarette commercial in cinema, theater, or even online. I want to thank our great Council for supporting our struggle on this subject. (AS/TK) (Applause from the AK PARTY) (PEOPLE APPLAUSE) (APPLAUSE) The definitions of closed spaces and open spaces are highly exploited, so we need to take new measures. In the coming days, we will be able to clarify the issues that have been abused because of the gaps in the legislation and tighten the controls at this minimum. Our goal is to ensure healthy aging, rather than to meet the health demands of our elders. We have been awarded the United Nations Special Award, as you know, for the extraordinary contribution of our successful efforts to prevent non-infectious diseases to reach the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We are steadfast in our work on this matter. Mr. President, valued lawmakers; one of the first legislature activities of the Turkish Grand National Assembly in the 27th term was a regulation on the rights of identity that health workers have long waited for. With the support of our lawmakers, additional collect improvements have been made on the pensions of physicians and dentists, and the actual service increase that all our health workers have been waiting for has been given. I'd also like to thank our deputies for the support our medical staff has given us for these gains. In 2019, a total of 14,193 doctors were appointed by the rules of the state's service obligation. A total of 3,685 medical personnel have been appointed with the rules of non-optional appointment. KPS 2019 has been assigned to 12,000 personnel in the first pick-up, as well as 17.689 positions for the second purchase of KPS 2019 and the manual for the first appointment has been published. Mr. President, good lawmakers, violence is a disgrace to humanity in every way; it's unacceptable to all people, not just to the medics. It is the public's responsibility to ensure that our colleagues serve in a secure environment, to deter violence, and to ensure that criminals are punished in the way they deserve. According to the new legal regulation adopted by our Supreme Assembly, it is a legal obligation for those who exercise violence against health staff to be arrested directly by law enforcement without complaint, to be transferred to the state's attorney's office to comply with the judicial proceedings at the police station, to be subject to the adoption of the case by the republic's chief prosecutor's office, to take the testimony of the subject, victim or witness at the workplace. We've seen the effect of this legal arrangement in a deterrent direction, but we don't see it as enough alone. With the healing measures, we'll follow up on this matter personally. We've come up with a plan for a comprehensive health prevention of violence. In this scope, rehabilitation of the physical environments where patient and health personnel meet, reducing the stress and excessive workload of health personnel, freeing our doctors from the threat of malpractis and compensation, improving our citizens' health readers, improving health care and service culture with the understanding of social peace, implementing patient communication, and ultimately implementing deterrent criminal sanctions. We aim to bring together our citizens and health workers in a healthy environment where mutual trust and respect-based communication can be established. As patients and medical staff, we need to create a service environment where both sides feel secure. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in our country, we work to provide qualified health care, including public hospitals, private hospitals, university hospitals. In our hospitals, we move quickly from ward-type rooms to private rooms with private bathrooms and bathrooms to privacy-oriented rooms. At the beginning of the 2000s, we have raised our qualified beds to 74 percent as of today. Our goal is that all our rooms are qualified in 2023. Our citizens' pocket health expenses are about 17 percent. We'll take the necessary measures to reduce it further. We've made it mandatory for patients who are in bed -- including for the day -- to supply cancer drugs by our hospitals. We've prevented patients from dealing with a drug supply prior to a corrosive treatment like chemo. We have a price advantage by making mass purchases from the ministry center. We extend our government's tender hand by providing home care to bed-ridden patients. From 2012 to today, we served 1,427 thousand people with home health care. In 2020, we aim to reach 1,450,000 people. Our ministry serves 5 million square metres in 2002, offering health care in 2019 at 22.5 million square metres. Mr. President, in 2003, when our existing hospitals were 48 years old, many of them were very poor in earthquake safety and functionality; in total, only 7,000 of the 107 thousand beds were qualified, almost all of our hospitals were in the ward system; in addition to the need for renovation of around 100,000 beds in order to provide modern health care, there were new facilities and at least 50,000 additional beds due to the growing population. Planning for the day's economic opportunities has been planned with the classic tender method of hospitals, especially with the public-special cooperation model of large structures. This is why the public-private cooperation model, which is applied to by many countries at the time, was judged as not financially possible to produce 150,000 beds with available resources and short-term results. With the hospitals we've built in the last 15 years, our average hospital age has dropped to 13. In the last five years, 351 health structures have been built with general budget resources, providing 31,096 beds for our country. In the process, 13.423 beds have been served with our 10 city hospitals, which have been completed. City hospitals were built in buildings that could withstand severe earthquakes using earthquake insulators. During this period, earthquake insulators were also used in our hospitals, which were built in 2012 with general budget resources in the first and second-degree earthquake areas. As a result, the health department has been the most prepared for the recent earthquake. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The size of hospitals is being criticised. I think we should consider this with the growing population of society, growing demands and future projections. City hospitals are not just hospitals, but hospital cities with many specialized hospitals in their area. Our goal is to ensure that patients who apply to these hospitals end their health problems in a center. Instead of taking patients from hospitals to hospitals in major cities, it is designed to answer all your questions in one compound.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0403par0052	And this time, you're walking the patient around in it, Mr. Secretary, and he has to walk around the hospital.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0401par0053	Giving the city hospitals the opportunity to serve in infrastructure-powered modern facilities has made it easier for us to establish a successful medical center of excellence, which requires advanced education and skill. The health tourism potential of our public healthcare system will be much easier to reveal in these hospitals.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0404par0054	What about anchor medicine?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0401par0055	One of the most important building blocks of Turkey's goal to make Turkey an important brand in health tourism is city hospitals. In particular, many countries have noticed that large hospitals can be built and serviced quickly. Romania is under contract. Two city hospitals were started a year ago in Kazakhstan, and six hospitals were signed a month ago; 15 hospitals were planned in total. So we've exported $2 billion of city hospitals to Kazakhstan for now. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The city hospitals we've been operating in so far serve our patients, as well as the employee's satisfaction, as well as our patients, after they've overcome the curve of experience in the early days. As stated on certain platforms in public, the claims that the city hospitals provide guarantees of patients are unrealistic.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0405par0058	This is the guarantee of a patient's study.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0406par0059	What about Surgery Pasha and the anchor, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0407par0060	Mr. Tanal, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0406par0061	That's what's going to happen to Surgery Pasha and the anchor!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0407par0062	Please, go out with Mr. Karaman for a moment.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0408par0063	Let me repeat this sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0407par0064	Please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0408par0065	The allegations that a patient is guaranteed in city hospitals are unrealistic.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0409par0067	The patient's examination is guaranteed.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0410par0068	That's not entirely true. You've conditioned a 70 percent hailing rate.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0408par0069	There are no guarantees or commitments in the emergency services, nor in the patient's capacity, nor in the surgery.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0410par0071	Then share the contracts you've been hiding, Mr. Secretary. According to the Court's reports, bring in the statement you've been hiding.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0411par0072	Hey, listen! Listen, bro!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0408par0073	It is said that a loan-responsibility agreement is under guarantee. I'll make it clear that neither our ministry nor the Treasury or the Treasury Department have ever signed an agreement to accept any loans.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0410par0075	Then the Court inspectors are lying because that's what the Court reports say.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0412par0076	Mr. Secretary, share the contracts.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0408par0077	The number of fillings in the city hospitals was reportedly reportedly transferred to the city hospital, particularly to the hospital. As soon as Ankara City Hospital opened, the emergency patients were treated with 112 emergency ambulances. Only 11.511.7 per cent of these patients were referred to Ankara City Hospital. And that ratio is extremely low than it should be.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0413par0078	Inshallah, his client will increase. Was it said, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0414par0079	Mr. Emir, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0408par0080	I'd like to say that now the Bilkent City Hospital has nearly 400,000 polyclinical examinations in November, 81 per cent of fullness, close to 400,000 patients with the number of emergency patients, and 15,000 surgeries. I also say we don't need a hailing rate. Occupied rate is 81 percent.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0415par0081	You've made the country sick.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0408par0082	Chemotherapy: We plan not to give medical services especially in the new era by the contractor, but rather by the Ministry of Health to provide these services. In this framework, along with chemo, prepping medicine, medical services such as physical therapy and TPN will now be presented by the Ministry. The agreements signed with contractor firms have been rescinded from half the companies, and the rest have been signed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Elızığ City Hospital: The Elazığ City Hospital has reportedly no IVF units. In such cases, as usual, the score for IVF services has been reset and removed from the contract and prevented the risk of making the first payment.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0416par0086	Mr. Secretary, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0408par0087	There's plenty more, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0416par0088	Time passes so quickly, Madam Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0408par0089	Mr. Süleyman Minister will allow it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0417par0090	We're being used. Let the Minister speak.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0418par0091	I think he should keep going.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0419par0092	There is no eye doctor in Niğde.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0420par0093	Payments made to the Covenant were cut from the service price and signed by the contractor, so there is no public harm. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're witnessing strange, irrational accusations that the cost of city hospitals has not been explained as a state secret. I'll make it clear that the budget does not offer city hospitals funds in other investment costs, but in a transparent way, as a separate pen.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0421par0097	We don't know for the next 25 years, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0420par0098	The price of services provided at city hospitals was not given along with other hospitals, but also shown transparently in the budget for city hospitals in private.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0422par0100	The Court report says you kept the taxi as a secret, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0420par0101	The annual budget figures set together are speculative, with many factors, such as the cost of building and disbursement, maintenance and repair costs, the costs for additional services. The investment cost of 10 city hospitals ever completed is $5 billion. It's worth about $30 billion. So it's about $5,400 per square meter. Mr. Ali Sugar, you should know the cost of a hospital. What's expensive about $5,400? However, all these investments are made without spending a cent of the budget. The cost of use in the 2019 budget is $5.2 billion, all earmarked for city hospitals, including business, maintenance costs and service purchases. Half of that is a service price. Although there were 5.2 billion in 2019, the rate of fulfillment was 4.2 billion. So the cost of 5.2 billion city hospitals was 4.2 billion this year. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I don't think there's any point in telling you how bummed all these claims are, the way our hospitals are, the way the bill's been inflated. The cost of spending 30 billion dollars without spending from the budget until this year is 2.4 billion liras in the budget of 2019. So in our total health care spending -- I'm talking about 164.6 billion -- that's 1.4 percent. The Ministry of Health's overall budget, central budget, and its share in the global budget, which is 117.3 billion, is 2%.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0423par0108	Mr. Secretary, I've extended three minutes, time's up. This is the last time I'm gonna give you an extension, so I'd appreciate it if you could wrap it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0420par0110	Three minutes? Madam Secretary will give you some.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0424par0111	He still has a lot to answer for, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0420par0112	In the 2020 budget, for 18 city hospitals, for all the hospitals to be completed, all 18, 12 hospitals are made from the general budget. For these 18 hospitals, $10.5 billion is allocated. More than half of this is a service price. So when we build these hospitals with our own means, we have to pay for this half of the service again. $5 billion is just the price of use. I'm talking about the cost of this use -- I'm talking about 18 hospitals -- that's 2.65 per cent of the total amount of health spending in 188 billion; that's the central budget of the Ministry of Health and the global budget, that's 3.7 per cent of its share in 133 billion, that's the price of use.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0425par0113	You've extended four times to the minister, but he won't give us any information about the Chapa and the Surgery.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0420par0114	I also want to say that the price of service will be lower than what we anticipated this year, as well as what we've taken.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0426par0116	Minister, thank you very much. Let's turn on the microphone to greet.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0420par0119	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with the selfless efforts of over a million of our health workers, we've made these achievements, and I'm grateful to them that we're going to throw out more.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0427par0120	Mr. President, that's how long you've been going on, there's no information here about Chapa. We'd like to know about the anchor, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0420par0121	As I close my words, I wish our budget of 2020 and the work we're going to do with this budget would be a blessing, and I thank you for your contributions, and I wish you a healthy day.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0428par0123	Yes, the demand for a second word in the name of executive is for Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr Murat Kurum. Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0429par0126	Mr. President, I'd like to introduce you to our esteemed MPs, our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and our Tapu Kadastro General Directorate, 2019, to inform you of our work and goals.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0430par0128	Mr. President, I thought you said you weren't allowed to be on the stand with visuals, so why is the minister free? You say we're dating visuals, but when the ministers come out...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0428par0129	Dear friends, this is the Minister speaking.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0429par0130	On behalf of myself and my Ministry, I salute our beloved nation, our Veteran Assembly, all of our MPs.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0430par0132	Minister, will Ekrem Imamoglu manage Istanbul or will you manage it?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0429par0133	I wish that our new budget, our environmental and urban services, our projects, our vision of the future, would develop. Mr. President, the year 2019 we left behind has been a new year of natural disasters all over the world, and many new policies on environmental pollution, climate change, urbanism.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0430par0135	Who will manage Istanbul, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0429par0136	In the process, as a country, we have launched many important projects. As the Ministry, I would like to express our work under the following headings: 1) In an effort to plan our cities from agriculture to industry, from transport to green areas for a hundred years, we have launched the Turkish National Environment Strategy Action Plan and Placement Strategy Plan and will complete our work within 2020.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0431par0139	He's not running Imamoglu, Minister.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0432par0140	Excuse me, Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0429par0141	2) In a human-based urban transformation, we build cities that are ready for disasters, ready for disasters, IDs, personalities, disabled friends. 3) With an understanding of the heritage of our civilization based on neighborhood culture and horizontal architecture, we build social housing to make our narrow-income citizens our homes. 4) We are building buildings that are energy efficient, zero waste compatible and equipped with intelligent technologies. In order to increase the amount of green space, the nation's gardens, ecological corridors, and again, we're doing projects that will increase the amount of green space per person, and we're doing studies that will increase the size of our country's natural conservation area from 9 to 17 percent. We're fighting infrastructure to protect our brand cities, which have natural, historical and cultural wealth. We're developing our geographical information systems, taking steps one by one to complete the digital transformation of our cities. Mr. President, along with the presidential government system, we have joined our Ministry of Ministers, including the President of Public Housing, the General Directorate of Local Governments and the National Real Estate Directorate, and from the day we took office, we have begun to implement our projects in the field by meeting with the governor of our province, the mayor of our province and the mayor, and by consulting with the NGOs, and by applying the decisions we've made in the area.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0433par0148	Just say it with the power representatives.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0429par0149	In the projects we've done, we've launched Turkey's Landing Strategy Plan to plan our cities for 50 years, a hundred years, and we're going to complete it in 2020. As a Minister of Environment and Urbanism, I care very much about this work. Why? With this plan, we will determine our potential investment zones one by one. With the integration of transportation systems, we'll be able to contribute again to the solution to the traffic problem. In order to bring our agricultural land, our tourism land, our industrial fields back into our economy, and to make the right production in the right place, we're going to run this place strategy plan, and we're going to complete it in 2020. There was a question again... that now, in the discretion of our House, it has been studied and sent to our House. The absence of a regional and parcel base has been conducted on the island-based zoning plan, and it is in our Parliament's discretion that it is included in 11 articles in the manifest that our President has announced. On the other hand, the arrangement that will bring limits to the levels is in our House. As part of this arrangement, heights will be determined at the current gabari threshold, and a work that will be removed will be done, I hope. When these changes are made, we will make this arrangement with all of our municipalities, and we will be reunited with more organized, healthier cities. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, look at it as a country, and unfortunately, we have an earthquake fact. We have an average of 23,000 earthquakes per year, and we have had 56 major earthquakes in the last century, and more than 80,000 of our citizens have died in these earthquakes. In 2012, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, you know that no matter what happens, we're going to do urban transformation, and we're going to quickly transform the housing that should be converted in this framework. They instructed us to change 1,350,000 dwellings from that day to that day, and we've secured more than 5 million of our citizens' lives and property. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, as part of the mobilisation, we have used about 13 billion dollars as part of urban transformation projects so far. We've taken important steps to pave the way for our citizens' projects again, such as publicisation, rent aid, moving aid.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0434par0156	What about the decontamination plant, Minister? Glory to God, there's no decontamination facility, it's miserable!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0429par0157	We contribute to urban transformation projects, again, by giving our municipalities 4 billion liras, up to 50 per cent interest support. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As soon as we arrived on the mission, we sent a bulletin to 81 provinces, which said to inform us of areas that need to be changed immediately in the scope of the general population, and that we will be able to transform 1.5 million homes with immediate priority in line with the data that has come in. Each year, we will convert 300,000 dwellings, and about 15 percent of 300,000 dwellings, by the hand of our Ministry of Public Housing Administration Chairman...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0434par0160	You don't do Yavuzturk neighborhood. You don't do Yavuzturk. You don't do Üskudar. You're not doing the Ülan neighborhood.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0435par0161	Mr. Tanal, please, Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0429par0162	And we'll be able to make that transition again by the way our Ministry does its part with private sectors and municipalities.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0434par0163	Mr. President, we're reporting unreported locations.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0435par0164	Mr. Tanal, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0434par0165	I get it, we're reporting unreported locations. It was not done in the district of Uzalan; it was not done in the district of Yavuzturk.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0436par0166	On September 12, 2019, we announced our eight-point urban transformation Action Plan, which would apply to four major phases, and according to this, the transformation of urban transformations and structures at the risk of depremation, and the transport of areas at the risk of ίsal and lands, are doing it under the basis of the transport and transformation of the areas of the historic urban cities and squares. In 2019, as part of the urban transformation, we began construction of 65,000 dwellings, including 25,000 in Istanbul, and in our other provinces, we conduct these works decisively. Today, we are doing a very important project with 60,000 dwellings, horizontal architecture, national gardens, hiking roads, bicycle lanes, to set an example for all of Turkey in Istanbul. In this area, by the end of the year, we'll be able to make over 60,000 homes in stages, and we'll be able to produce reserves for all our districts in the region. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, we have begun our work under the direction of our President, along with the destruction of the Greenhouse Apartment, where we lost our lives in February 2019. Not just the apartment, we've identified all the risky structures in the area. That's the state of construction today, and hopefully in 15 days we'll hand it over to the rightful owners, and we'll be running and finishing an important urban transformation project here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0437par0171	The important thing is to take that precaution before people die.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0436par0172	Other than that, today, we conduct urban transformation projects in Gaziosmanpaşa, Güngören, Ataşehir, Başakşehir, Orakşehir, Oliveburnu and Beyoğlu districts decisively.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0438par0173	There is also a pond in Virgo.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0436par0174	Again, what about the Chapa Medical School? The questions came. Don't worry, we've started both of them's work, we'll be doing their tenders in January, and we'll have finished the urban transformation projects so that no student of ours will be left out. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, you know, after the floods and landslides of climate change in the Black Sea, we announced our Climate Change Action Plan, and a plan of action under the 15-point action plan was to move the dwellings on the creek route.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0439par0177	I didn't get paid for the fakes.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0440par0178	There's a flood every year in Terme, a flood.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0436par0179	In this framework, we began to build about 500 dwellings in Tripoli Arakak, Giresun, and we will quickly do the transformation of those who risk life and property on that creek route by making the identifications in other areas.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0440par0180	Minister, is it destiny to have floods every year in Terme?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0436par0181	We continue to transform our historic city centers and squares to suit its ancient historical identity, and in this frame, in Ankara Hergelen Square, Konya Mevlana Square, Niğde Kaleiçi, Erzurum Hadjicuma, again, Kastamunu Nasrulla Mosque and its environment, around the Afyon Misri and Imad Mosque, again, Kayseri Kaleiçi, we took the very important step to open around our Great Mosque, again, with the government system of the President, meeting with our mayor, with our governor, with one of our own.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0441par0182	Why didn't you tell us, Minister, if you're referring to our guardians?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0442par0183	Why did you destroy Hasankeyf?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0436par0184	On the other hand, in our 81 counties, we have launched efforts to drive industrial areas, again, agricultural areas, out of the city. This is part of our transformation, and in this framework we are doing transformation projects here, in our Istanbul, in our Konya, in our Kayseri, in our Seipeli, in our Aksaray, in our city center, in our industrial areas. A new project: We went to Pain. There are about 1,300 stables in the city. By building our new stables, modern stables, 50 titles, 75 titles, 100 warheads, we'll be moving our stables out of the city, and here we'll be making the transformation to eliminate these images that are disrupting our city's beauty. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have produced 877,000 dwellings from 2003 to 19, with nearly 160 billion dollars in investments, which are 90 percent of the dwellings addressed to the lower and mid-income group. As you look at it with its social utensils, the construction of about 1 million independent sections began, and 85 percent of them were delivered to our citizens. In 2019, they said: "What can you, as a minister, do with this budget?" As of 2019, we invested only 16 billion dollars in the head of the Public Housing Administration, and in the first ten months we made the sale of 31 thousand new dwellings. Again, we have delivered 42,000 of our dwellings to our citizens, and we are continuing the construction of about 83,000 dwellings. Last Thursday, with the presence of our President, with the support of our Treasury and Finance Ministry, we will continue this work in our ministry's co-ordination, which will increase our 50,000-dollar social housing to 100,000, with an estimated two hundred and forty-forty months of our citizens in 81 counties, in a campaign that has not yet been carried out in the history of the republic, and we will continue to work until there are no narrow-income citizens left with no home in this country. Hopefully, we'll complete our work within a year and a half. In 81 counties, we run national gardens projects, take steps to take up to 15 square meters per square meter of green space per person, and in this framework, we've launched ground and project work to build 81 million square metres of nation garden in 81 counties. We've opened our garden in six cities of 4.9 million square meters, and in the 60 counties that we've identified, 35 million square meters -- we'll finish the nation's garden within 2020, and hopefully by 2023, we'll have a nation's garden in all our cities. In fact, this nation's gardens are also the city's disaster center. In the city, God forbid, when an earthquake strikes, our citizens will be able to gather in this nation's gardens. Both at the point of safety and at the point where we will provide tents and food for them, they will be able to protect themselves from earthquakes in the nation's gardens, at the time of the earthquake gathering.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0443par0190	How will you do to Istanbul, Istanbul?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0436par0191	Inside these gardens will be arrangements to provide for our citizens, our young people, all kinds of needs. We're increasing the number of protected areas, we're doing our work to increase it to 17 percent of OECD data, we're doing ecological corridors in 22 of our provinces. At first, we're dealing with illegal construction all over our country, including protected areas of the SCE, and in this framework, we've raised our 1,100 auditors to 3,100, hopefully in 2020, and in this frame, we're going to do these destructions, as you can see here, in our Ayder, in our capadocia, in our Salda, in our basement, in our basement, and in our shores, and in a stable way, we're going to do these destructions, as you can see here. So, we're going to reduce 108 independent parts of the project in Bodrum, which our Bodrum City licensed to 54 independent parts after the destruction, and look, today we've reduced these 108 independent areas, we've increased the amount of green space, and we're doing our work decisively to be the voice of our citizen's conscience.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0444par0193	Don't you have a forest area, Mr. Secretary? There's no green area? You always show concrete photos.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0445par0194	What about the Kaz Mountains, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0436par0195	Here we are, again, in our basement, where we lift it and preserve its natural beauty. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) In our Ayder, we did our work on the swings that made us all sore, and the work that first caused this pollution of images was then challenged to this.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0446par0197	You should have taken care of Hasankeyf.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0436par0198	Again, we remove these structures with the support of our Ministry of Interior, our other ministries, as well as the river routes for illegal building in the Black Sea, in the Rize, in Giresun.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0447par0199	Who gave you permission to do this? Wasn't there a government, or was there another government?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0448par0200	What government was there when this was done?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0447par0201	What government did they have?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0202	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, along with technological developments and rapidly increasing industrialisation over the past two centuries, our entire world is struggling with climate change, which our country has been affected by. So, as our representative explained, we're taking measures as countries to ensure that the temperature of now 1.5 degrees does not rise to 3 degrees [3 degrees] -- again, the seawater level has risen to 19 centimeters [19 cm] -- that this does not go up further. If you look at greenhouse gas emissions, we're the 15th place in the world, so even though we're the least polluting country in the world, we're carrying out our responsibilities on national and international sides at the point of protecting the environment and nature, fighting climate change.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0450par0203	Mr. Secretary, the air of Iğdır is now the dirtiest province; 355 PM should be 50 regular.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0204	In this context, we're doing projects in our cities, which will defend the rights of our country in the sight of the United Nations, and are the least affected by our cities, our citizens, climate change. We've announced our Black Sea District Climate Change Action Plan. In our other regions, we will explain our action plans in order, and we will take the necessary measures in our cities as part of their action plans.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0450par0206	Will you have a measure for air pollution, air pollution?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0207	Under these measures, our Public Housing Administration has launched the work of moving 15,000 independent sections over the creek route. You know, with the support of all our deputies, we've paid for plastic bags, and we've reduced this frame by 77 percent. We have the Zero Waste Project. We're projecting the Zero Waste Project on climate change, and we're doing a lot of projects under it. By the end of the project in 2023, Mr. Emine Erdogan, under the protection of Ma'am, we will be saving $20 billion a year and providing direct employment to 100,000 people. We've raised our waste water treatment facilities to 85 percent in 2002, when our regular storage facilities were 35 percent.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0451par0210	And finish the son of Niğde, and finish the son of Niğde. It was a long time.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0211	And hopefully by 2023, we're doing all of our projects by serving all of our cities, all of their population. What about the money from the plastic bags? I'll tell you what: we've supported 14,000 projects as a total of $2.5 billion in the last 16 years. In 2019, $220 million came from plastic bags. We've provided 527 million support for our environmental projects, including the bicycle pathway, the walkway, the wastewater treatment plant, the solid waste plant, and we've spent all the money that comes in, even twice as much on environmental projects. And we're giving CED confirmations. We're trying never, ever to give CED approval when giving CED approval.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0452par0215	All of the HESESTs are doing damage.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0216	So, at this point, I'd like to talk about the CED process on the Canal Istanbul Project. As the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, we see Canal Istanbul as a very important project for the future of our country with coastal structures, marinas, container ports, logistical centers. We've come to an end in the CED process of the project, which is as important to the world as it is to our country. I'd like to stress that we're conducting our project at the highest level of precision.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0453par0217	I want to know who is being sold around Canal İstanbul.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0454par0218	Mr. Tanal, please, Mr. Tanal... so I'm tired of saying Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0219	We continue our work by interviewing our municipalities, our academics, environmental experts, institutions and organizations, subsidiaries, NGOs.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0454par0221	Finish your speech, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0222	Hopefully, I'd like to make it clear that the Canal Istanbul Project is a protection and rescue project, the Bosphorus's freedom project.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0455par0223	Mr. Secretary, the Canal has been sold to the Istanbul Qatars, correct?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0224	Hopefully, when we do this project, we'll see that with Canal, it's the current shipping traffic in the Bosphorus of Istanbul, and that ship traffic has a negative effect on the quality of water. Hopefully, when this project is carried out, the level of sea water, quality, and the safety of the lives and goods of our citizens living there will have been provided, so far, from 1960 to today, from 6 major accidents, 108 tons of oil flowed into the Bosphorus, 100 people died in this framework. No one can bear such a burden alone. Hopefully, Canal İstanbul and I will take the burden of Boğaziçi, and we will bequeath the Boğaziçi to the next generation in a much better way. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We are working to ensure that these and such events will not happen again in the Bosphorus, which will not be compensated.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0456par0226	Complete, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0227	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in the last 18 years as the EC PARTY, we have carried out all the projects our cities need, all the projects our 82 million citizens need.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0457par0228	Minister, there are many Istanbul MPs in this parliament, has Kanal been sold to Istanbul Qatars or not?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0229	We will do Marmaray, Eurasia Tunnel, Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Osmangazi Bridge, İstanbul Airport, and our city hospitals in the same way that we will do and offer them to the service of our citizens.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0458par0231	Do you know how many plots there are on that route? How many PLOs have land on that route?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0232	Again, it was asked about the Boğaziçi Law. In fact, I want to make it clear that this is not a CHP, this is not an AK PARTY issue; this is not a question of taking authority from the Metropolitan. It's in parliament's discretion that whatever the House decides, we have to abide by that decision as an executive, and we have to implement it in that framework. What do we want to do? We certainly don't build the Bosphorus project on the life of 82 million citizens of the Republic of Turkey, not just 16 million Istanbulers.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0459par0234	Mr. Secretary, please let's finish.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0235	We're protecting its historical and natural image, increasing the green areas. We're going to fight illegal construction -- 10,000 illegal structures -- and we're going to do this project with our local governments, hopefully.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0460par0236	You're discriminated against in the municipalities.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0459par0237	Madam Secretary, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0238	Until January 1st, 2020 on thermal power plants... all of our department's teams will be in place by the end of the month. 13 thermal plants are different from each other; some have filters, some have chimneys, some lack filtrations. Whatever environmental legislation requires, we'll do what we need to do on January 1st, 2020.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0459par0240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0449par0241	Mr. President, I hereby wish that the budget of our budget for 2020, our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, our State of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, for our cities, for our nation, for our citizens, for all of you, be blessed with love and respect.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0459par0243	The third word for the executive is for the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Süleyman Soylu. Mr. Noble, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0461par0246	Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers have made a commitment on the basis of our ministry's budget presentation of 2020, and I salute the very precious members of our Veteran Assembly with love and respect. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I pray to God that our budget, our work, our country, our nation, our future generations, will bring us good. We're in a period of time when, for the first time, we've discussed even the smallest negative sentences about Western countries for days, perhaps this is the first time we've seen them so weak and ineffective. The inhuman videos of the DEAS were enough to distance the European code of civilization from several migrant boats trying to get close to the coast of Greece and Italy, acts of terror by truck, not even with a gun. The world they're supposed to be planning is today, unfortunately, in disorientation and visionlessness. The imperialism, which seeks to be the main actor again through radicalism, has produced global migration and, unfortunately, terror with a poor Middle East and Asia, which has no access to water, justice, health, education. He didn't hold up any predictions. The Eastern civilisation, which they want to suppress and destabilize by the wars of power, has now entered the stage of rebirth, offering new opportunities, even with the modern Silk Road alone. Let's face it, as the 2000s began, we were a country that was sadly troubled by the complexity of the East and Southeast, even within our borders, let alone the Middle East, let alone the Middle East. In 2002, our beloved nation adopted a healthy reading here, with the closest political preference to it, a new understanding in the economy, industry, production, producing its own security policy, improving stability, increasing its capacity in every field. So, with today's world painting, we should look at this great innovation of Turkey as a whole. If Turkey became an exporting country in the defence industry today, if it was able to repel the July 15 coup and then after 40 days to succeed the Battle of the Firat Shield, if it could replace Operation Olive Branch, Talathan, Peace Pınar, in the east today with social and economic life, if it could create enough economic, political, military, technological ability to do so, it would certainly be an injustice to the East if it was accepted -- God be thankful to God -- in the east today, a social and economic life that has been alive with the record of tourism -- since 2002, it would be unfair to think about our growth and since our growth.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0462par0251	Minister, there was no terror in 2002.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0461par0252	Turkey today is not just a country that thinks about security on the PKK axis, it looks at security at a macrostrategic angle. First, he cleaned up the July 15th resistance, then the Fırat Shield, and the DEA threat. Then he entered Afrin (Afrin) with Operation Olive Branch and struck the first blow to the PKK/YPG/terror corridor project. He then began Operation Claw and focused on Kandil. Finally, he extinguished the dreams of the Peace Fountain and the PKK and the YPG. (AK PARTY) With Operation Breaker, the final link to our operational field pressure, we aim to finish the logistical and personnel shortage of the PKK's presence and winter base. You see this line, Turkey is trying to do something here. It's on this map that has been trying to threaten Turkey from the south for years. It is clear why Turkey was in Afrin (Afrin) and why it had to perform Operation Olive Mountain, why Turkey had to go 20 to 25km away to ensure the unity and unity of its own nation, and why it had to go 20 to 25km away, and why it had to do the last operation of Operation Peace Fountain, and why it was trying to pressure the terrorist organization in its so-called territory. This map reveals what threat Turkey is facing and what kind of struggle it is in. Again, with our latest step here and in doing so, we have secured our security and economic interests in the Mediterranean with the Libyan Covenant. There's a front that's always playing with the codes of the world, and we must never forget it. As Turkey, it also shares all the problems that have been created in our region today and are intended to be brought down on us, its original owners. Look, this is the first time Turkey has made a move. We're going through a period of time when we've seen how many of the issues we've been dealing with over the years, and how we've been able to bring these things into the field of those who have us dealing with them, and how they have to deal with them. Turkey has become a country that plays both regional and world games, strategizing, standing on its feet. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] WHAT we do in the matter of extradition of the DEAS is a clear example, and we know what we're doing. This power we produce is the work of a political integrity, which has been authorized and owned by our beloved nation since 2002. He is the leader of the AK PARTI and its leader, and by the will of our nation, with the Union of Cumhur, it is today to advance through synergy to 2023 and move Turkey to its rightful place among the countries of the world. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Turkey is neither Turkey nor Turkey in the 1999 earthquake today, and Turkey today is 1,500-2 in the Alibolım of PKK. It's a Turkey where he's camping, playing ball, doing gymnastics with 2,000 people. (AK PARTI) Turkey is not today -- along with its drone -- Turkey is not standing at the door of other countries to receive drones -- nor is Turkey the one who says and surrenders when a coup declaration is read on TV. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In our ministry, after July 15th, in order to succeed in our new structure, we've established five mechanisms on the ability to increase inter-unit integration, to increase technical and human capacity, to create a policy and action plan, to simplify all bureaucratic processes and processes, and the monitoring and evaluation system of our work. And today we're tracking this mechanism to increase the satisfaction of our Ministry's public service, and we're continuing it. Every year in our Ministry, we set up a topic -- I especially want to present it to our House. This year's topic is education, inspection, follow-up. And I'll tell you something here: this year, the number that we have reached with all of our staff in the service training is 447,526, and in other matters, in 81 provinces, all of our friends, both monitoring and evaluations, are trying to explain on one occasion the side of the services that we have done to our nation. Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, today's Turkey is a global actor in the drug fight. Afghanistan was unstable, and opium production increased from 200,000 tonnes to 9,000 tonnes. Synthetic drug production has increased over 50 per cent in Europe over the last five years, and the same Europe, we all witnessed in the recent European Union report that the PKK's drug leader has recently been sobered up and has taken it into its own reports this year, particularly as a drug addict. If we hadn't increased our ability to fight in this business, we'd be prisoners of it. In this year's international drug operations, 4.2 tons off Libya... look, our Coast Guard, our police are gone; they took the ship away from Libya, brought it in, put it on the borders of Turkey. (Applause from the EC PARTY) Bulgaria has been caught at the borders of Serbia with 500,000 ecstasy and 4.5 million captagons in Greece; they have always been our children. In the Mediterranean, on the coast of Spain and Italy, we caught 12.4 tons of marijuana in our pursuit and partnership with Spain. In addition, in the last year, we have made the largest arrests of heroin by Turkey: 1,271 kilos in Erzincan, 1,535 kilos in Erzurum, 615 kilos in Mersin, 1,301 in Edirne, 1,982 in Balıkesir; 1,500 kilos in Muğla. These are just a few examples. About 5 tonnes of cannabis were caught in lice last February, and in last November -- again last month -- in Diyarbakir, about 5 tonnes of 38 kilograms of marijuana. Let me tell you something else: from New Year's to today, we've caught 42 million root hemps. You know what that means? 15 billion is what we specifically describe as the matter of the neuroterrorism, 15 billion, and I have to say, the number of people we've taken into custody for drug crimes in the last three years -- please note that number -- 633,000, the number of people we've taken into custody for drug crimes. The number of prisoners still in prisons for drug crimes is 79,942. So, we're fighting this much, and all the institutions, all the ministries, all the NGOs, what's the result? So the bottom line is, if we hadn't come to this conclusion, maybe we wouldn't have been able to say those words in front of you. The result is, look, 180 million to 380 million in all the world, in return for these numbers. Drugrelated deaths in Turkey, however, are 232, 497, 590, 920. The reason for this increase is the chemical drug flowing from Europe to Turkey. Then we interfered, we completed last year with 657, this month of last year, a total of 380, now 221, and there's a reduction of over 40 percent. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Together, we put together a great struggle, Turkey puts it out, and when we express it all, we're not just having a simple fight; we're following drugs used in 18 provinces with wastewater analysis. We've been tracking every drug user we've ever caught in our Narcologist research in the field. Again, we're also trying to do that by spreading our narcotics training activities, 81 and our narcos. Hopefully, our goal is to reduce the number of people who die from drugs in Turkey, who start using drugs as much as possible in the next year, with all of our institutions in common. We are a Muslim nation -- I'll tell you this -- children of Anatolian civilization. They want to cloud our children's minds, and I want to say here that this is terrorism. It's not a political party, it's not a conflict, it's not a fight, it's not a riot. Together, we have to look out for Turkey's future in the drug issue and set an example for geography around us, for the world as well. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, today's Turkey successfully manages a global immigration event without certainty, in accordance with international law and apocalyptic conscience. Even if it remains in someone's mind, Turkey has not been subject to the planned migration panic or fear. It is true that there is no country in the world that has been destroyed, poored by migration. I'm claiming worldwide that immigrants are negative to the economy of the country they're going to -- and I'm stressing -- there's no research and no results in the world literature. The development of all European countries after World War II is based on the capacity of migration. Your understanding of the migration as a bogeyman is empty. The problem our country faces today is not our problem, it's a global problem. Today, from Indonesia and India to Australia and New Zealand, from Venezuela to Colombia, from Mexico to America, from Eastern Europe to Western Europe, from Asia to Afghanistan, Pakistan to Pakistan, from Africa to Europe, and from our country in very serious numbers. Turkey today has put all the stones into place to manage the regular migration. Small problems can happen, of course, and we're trying to minimize them. The problem here is that the problem that we all need to focus on together is the increase in illegal migration, and no one expects it to go down. What I just showed at the beginning of my speech is that if the inequality of income in Afghanistan, Pakistan, the lack of access to education, justice, water, food, and lack of access to Africa continue, you will know that this increase is inevitable for the entire world. Our number of illegal immigrants this year is 423,000, 286,000 last year, 176,000 a year ago, 175 a year ago. Of course, there's a human dimension to this. I'll tell you the number of illegal immigrants who died in the Aegean Sea this year, there are women here, there are children here, there are elderly people here: 33. In this regard, in fact, our Coast Guard Command, our law enforcement forces are making great efforts to prevent this from happening all over Turkey. Don't listen to what Greece says. Our increase comes from 286,000 to 450 thousand, almost 170 thousand; the increase in Greece is less than one tenth of us. I mean, we're really taking the burden here. Why are we fighting? To avoid becoming an migration route, we are seriously putting forth our fight in Turkey so that not everyone can come to Turkey and go where they want from Turkey. Let me also tell you something else: I mean, I don't want winter; I don't want Van. I don't want pain. This year, a total of 77 people, including traffic accidents, were buried under the snow in Van (Ağar) and in Ağrı (Ağrı), and only four months later were we able to find them. Why would Kim come here? We're not the reason for this. The cause, yes, is the West. The reason for this is because of Europe, which is supposedly not human, which is trying to make its own statement. (EC PARTY) The reason for this is especially because of America, in the Middle East and Asia, which is ruthlessly involved with its own interests; I make it very clear and clear. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We should never discuss these sentences. Again, at the same time, we're running a major operation. Look, we've just sent 99,000 people back to their own country. There's no such operation anywhere in the world. The 99 grand does not include the voluntary return we sent to Syria. We sent back 62,000 Afghans, and we're doing it in collaboration with Afghanistan again. Here, in front of you, I'm more in contact with ministers in Afghanistan and Pakistan than with my fellow ministers, just to be able to manage and demonstrate this migration regime. Again, we're doing something else in the same way, and there's no precedent. We extend our hand to the lands that lead to the migration. We're not responsible for the Syrian civil war, but today 370,000 people in Afrin, Cerablus, Azez, Mare and El Bab. We didn't create a system of exploitation like Europe and America. If people live there today, if they are at peace and return there, I hope you know that if they return tomorrow to the Prophet and Tel Abyad, even the most advanced country in the world has no ability to do so; this nobility is in the Turkish nation, and this nobility is in Turkey. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] On the subject of immigration, I'd like to add that there are 3.6 million Syrians in our country today. It's got Kurds in it, it's got Arabs in it, it's got Turkmen in it, it's got Ezids in it. 65 percent of these people came here from within the Islamic borders. Nobody's sorry, we can't turn our backs on these people, it's so clear and clear. We can't let these people die and we can't send them to their deaths. We're native to this geography, and we have neighbors in this geography. When we return to the same qiblah and pray together, and play horons together, and take girls together, and give girls together, and trade from Gaziantep to Damascus, there are people in our home, where we live, where we live, our daughter, and her wife, whom we know. For him, I want to express that turning our backs on these people is turning our backs on our history, on our faith, on our humanity, and the worst is to abandon our values that we fought for a hundred years ago and surrender to the understanding of the West. Although its cost is great, sometimes troubled, the hospitality and nobility that this great nation has demonstrated since 2011 gives us the upper hand over the entire world. I'd like to thank our nation again for its hospitality and dignity. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Forgive me, I'm running out of time, but I'll tell you what we do in traffic with only one number. Currently, with the measures we've taken this year last year -- the rise of Turkey's road standards, the rise of emergency responses -- and the success that all institutions have established, in Turkey, the deaths in traffic have dropped to 6.5 per 100,000. The number of people killed in traffic in Turkey from last year until now is 1,250. That's an important number. The number in the previous year was 752. This, together -- is a contribution to our Great National Assembly of Turkey -- particularly to the pursuit of policies in pedestrian deaths. Again, I'm going to give you just one figure of what Turkey has come to in cases of peace. In Turkey, a daily average of house thefts is 2017, 2018 and 2019; 282, 203 and 128. The daily theft in İstanbul has fallen from 78 to 34, Ankara to only four per day, İzmir to six per day; we have İzmir MPs here; we have Ankara MPs, we have Istanbul MPs. Many things have been said in Turkey about the incidents of security. Believe me, right now, Turkey is actually having one of its most important moments in public affairs. Again, I want to make one more thing clear here. In particular, it is often said by the ECHR that there is a ban on torture. That's the painting. See, 2012, 2013, 2014, zero. 2015, 2; that's 1990 to 1995. 2016, 2017, 2018, zero. I don't listen to words, I look at the decisions of the ECHR.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0463par0282	You don't know them either.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0464par0283	Take a look at the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0461par0284	Again, DEAŞ, ا; our fight against all of this continues at the highest point. I'm sorry, I've crossed the line to get into one thing.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0465par0286	How much did it cost the budget?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0461par0287	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers today are not the former Turkey in the fight against Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). There's a dominant, non-responsive, decisive, non-interruption, non-interruption, non-interruption, non-interruptional Turkey, which is responding to the organization's victimic literature and child abuse and women abuse, fighting terrorism as well as terrorism, focusing on east and southeast, development. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm not going to give you this time the number of operations, the number of terrorists that have been neutralized. Take your cell phones, and see if there are room in the sleeping car until March on the Turkish Eastern Express. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Look for a hotel in Iğdır, Kars, Mardin, and you'll understand the matter. That's our counterterrorism report card. Look, the report card is here, and it's not another report card. I clearly show the proportion between the number of tourists in Turkey's 26 provinces in the east and southeast and the decline of the number of terrorists in the mountains: Turkey's number of tourists increases by 241 per cent in the east and southeast as the number of terrorists on the mountain descends to 500. We're looking at paintings. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Again, millions of tourists coming to this country, those trains, those planes, thousands of people filling those hotels, there is no wealth and safety in Turkey. To date, the number of university students in Mardin has increased by 60 per cent from pits and barricades, 365 per cent from the number of tourists in Tunisia, 138 per cent in Mardin, 244 per cent in Diyarbakır. While we're out there taking steps to end terrorism, to cut off all support for terrorism -- especially our political friends -- we're waiting for support, not corruption. We're deploying terror-related municipalities.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0466par0293	What is the matter with you that you assault, and what is the matter with you?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0467par0294	All the municipalities, huh?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0461par0295	Each time they are put on the stand, they are chosen. They are said to be defensive. I didn't get two hundred and eighty-six years; I didn't get the 94 mayors we got last semester.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0468par0297	Which court gave it to me?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0469par0298	There's no corruption, there's no theft.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0461par0299	Here we have two hundred and eighty-six years, two hundred and eighty months.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0468par0300	What court, what court?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0461par0301	And again, nobody came out and apologized to us.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0468par0302	Your judges do.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0461par0303	▪ Do we have to overlook their crimes because they are chosen?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0470par0304	Give account of the trustees who received gifts in Mardin!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0471par0305	Where's justice, justice?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0461par0306	Then why did we relieve the mayor of the Metropolitan Mayor of Adana, 2010?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0472par0307	Where are the carpets, carpets, carpets?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0461par0308	Again -- official -- why did we get a mayor at Balıkesir in 2012, because of his irregularities of mayors in Kayseri, in Bolu, in the Army, in the Ünyye, in Istanbul? Then why does this system exist?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0473par0310	Did you sue them, sue them?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0472par0311	What about the gifts you received from the trustees?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0474par0312	Congressmans, a little quiet, please, a little quiet...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0313	Even though he knew that his ability to be elected and his ability to govern were not the same, that the Constitution and the law had separated them from each other...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0476par0315	You have brought the Constitution to its knees.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0316	I read the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, and I don't read PKK regulations like you!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0476par0318	You can't treat me like that!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0319	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0476par0320	Who are you!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0477par0321	Sit down!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0323	It's not over.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0478par0324	Mr. Secretary, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0325	I will, sir. [[Noises from HDP rows]] Look, I'll give you an example: Erzurum 2. From the High Criminal Court...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0479par0328	Let me know how many women have died in them!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0329	Please, friends...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0479par0330	Let me know how many women have been killed! Can you prevent women's murders?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0331	... seven years and six months in prison for membership in an armed terrorist organization.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0479par0332	Speak up, it's exciting!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0333	He applied for an appeal in 2018.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0480par0334	There is no final punishment for any mayor!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0335	In 2019, the appeal was approved, but HDP hired him, and Erzurum Karayazı was nominated for mayor.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0481par0336	Women aren't worth as much as a car accident! You don't say a word!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0337	Let me tell you this: if we don't take this Veteran Assembly, we'll be held by the law of the Bedirhan baby, and at last, we'll be held by the Esma Commander. That's not true!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0482par0339	The appointed officer cannot decide where he is chosen!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0340	I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0483par0341	You're showing off!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0342	My last words are, look, thank God...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0483par0343	God will strike you, God will strike you!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0484par0344	It's gonna hit you, you!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0345	Today, in Turkey, we have transformed the word "paklus fortune of the East" into "pokk"'s good fortunes," so let the Kandil think about it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0483par0347	You're in sin up to your necks!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0348	These kids don't go to the mountains from city festivals.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0485par0349	Pay for the baklavas you stole first! Pay for the beans you've eaten!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0350	We don't send it today, we don't send it to Duran Tetovo, who should be a nurse, who should be a doctor and an engineer, who is forced to rape and rape our mother-loving children.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0486par0352	Give it up, democracy has been slaughtered!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0475par0354	In my final statement, in this House, this budget...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0487par0356	Don't tear it! Don't tear it!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0488par0357	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please remain silent... Mr. Secretary is finishing his speech, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0489par0359	I'll give you my last sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0488par0360	Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0489par0361	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, from the beginning of this budget...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0490par0363	Go... go...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0489par0364	This budget is not a war budget, this budget is the budget of the mothers of Diyarbakir, the budget of the mothers of Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0490par0366	Go... go...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0489par0367	I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit05spe0491par0369	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0491par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We are continuing with the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0492par0007	Mr. President, thank you. Well, first of all, it was supposed to be in between, but now it's in a group and short, not too long ago. First of all, Mr. Minister of Health says there's no guarantee of a patient. He says there's no guarantee of a patient, and he gets a big round of applause, but we also know that the Minister of Health has a guarantee of an examination, a guarantee of an MRI, a guarantee of a CT scan, and then there's no guarantee of a test, and then there's no patient guarantee of...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0493par0009	It's in every hospital. Mr. Free, it's in all the hospitals.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0492par0010	Is he going to run these tests in three letters, or are they going to make goblins, and who are they going to do these tests to? You're guaranteeing tests. There's no guarantee of a patient. They take it and turn it around. There's a service guarantee, and that's not gonna happen until she's sick, and there's no MRI before she's sick. But I'd like to tell Mr. Health Minister that I've never seen such a tolerant administration. Well, if he talks until morning, these three ministers, I'll listen, there's no problem here, but I'll repeat the same chorus about city hospitals and...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0494par0012	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0492par0013	I asked you something very exciting. So far, the party and the Department of Health are in the shit. Why? The reason is that all pharmacists, from every party, from every pharmacist's pocket, all the pharmacists tell you about it, and you give a person a concession, and he doesn't keep any promises, he becomes a blood product monopoly; he's been given this much time, so go out and say... yesterday, why did we enter the area of the President? He asks you why did we enter the area of the pharmacists? But he is walking through the relationship of those who are privileged to the President. Get out of here. We'll release the pharmacists' blood products starting Monday. We never get this cheap, off-sell privilege until the contract meets its terms. You can't.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0494par0015	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0492par0016	I'm going to say one thing to the two ministers, both to Mr. Husband and Mr. Corporate: Dear Ministers, between you and me, the regime has changed, and your friends are pretending to do the same to us, and they're doing the same to you. Now, Mr. Husband says that the first thing in the 27th term is that you've cured the health care rights of health workers. Don't say that, don't let them hear it, because they didn't come from the ministry. We sat down and we did it. There's a separation of forces, we sent it. They call it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0495par0017	I thanked you... thank the Council...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0492par0018	No, we fixed it. You're saying... Mr. Corporate, we're going to remove the arrangement in the parsel area -- very true, very late, but very true -- there's going to be an arrangement in the island area. There's the gabari account, H: It's going to be endless. Well, that's important. I'm already reading you. Then you say: "We have sent them to the House, and soon... don't say these things."
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0496par0021	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0492par0022	They are here to separate the solid forces. We make the signatures, and I swear to God they're not from the ministers. The ministers, like the Parliamentary regime, did not draft the bill and send it to Parliament. At first, they couldn't do it, so now they're even swearing. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, finally, of course, lastly, for the Minister of Environment: the goal of a Minister of Environment, the apple of the world, that connects Asia with Europe, connects the three seas, the greatest variety of fish, can't be to draw a channel like a dagger into the bosom of Istanbul, the pearl of the world. Not this one. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This may be the President's greatest dream; this is the dream of the Sheikh of Qatar, but rest assured, Mr. Secretary, it is Istanbul's nightmare. Don't get involved in this as a Minister of the Environment.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0497par0028	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0492par0029	My last word is, there's a lot to be said, but I keep it as short as possible: once, I sent a pamphlet on this lynching attempt, and the Minister sent me a copy of an answer to a political party from the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget. Let's not look at anything. The book has repeatedly written "Kemal Kilicdaroğlu" in the book. He is here in the third place in Turkey's protocol; he will not spare you one time for anyone he coincides with in this Parliament. (HPP) As Home Secretary...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0498par0031	Read his head. In the beginning, he says...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0492par0032	Why are you speaking to me in the form of command when I say to you, "I'm not." Where do you get off? When I don't tell you to do it, look, look...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0498par0034	I'll change it. Read the head. Sometimes you're in a hurry. At the beginning, he says: "All words concerning Kemal Kilicdaroğlu will then be called Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu. There is one of the simplest things done in public correspondence. We don't prevent a person from saying anything other than that... all the way to the beginning.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0499par0036	Recep Tayyip Erdogan!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0500par0037	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0501par0038	Let me be very clear...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0502par0039	Now apologize!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0501par0040	One is not a public correspondence; two, if Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroglu is to be saved from the letters and letters written in this report, I wish you would come to them.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0502par0041	It's cheap politics, cheap polymics.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0501par0042	I'll give you 100 pages of paper like this, once you say "Mr." and then you always say "Recep Tayyip Erdogan" and I'll applaud you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0503par0044	You call it Saray, the palace.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0501par0045	Now, here's what we're talking about: one, Mr. Home Secretary, in 2019, at the end of 17 years of power, and three and a half years of his ministry, there are villages that I can't go to, and there are neighborhoods that I can't go to.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0504par0046	No more, he says. There is no such neighborhood anymore, he says.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0501par0047	Your president used to tell us that you can't go east of Sivas. Now that we're at 81, you can communicate with all political parties in Parliament and anyone...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0505par0049	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0506par0050	You're doing politics!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0501par0051	We're gonna do politics, what are we gonna do?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0506par0052	You don't, you don't!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0501par0053	What are we gonna do?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0506par0054	You've delivered the east! Do politics!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0501par0055	You want me to steal it or jinx it?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0507par0056	Mr. Special, go ahead, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0506par0057	You've delivered east, southeast. Go do politics in the east. You're talking here!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0507par0058	Mr. Locker...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0508par0059	Mr. President, we can't go anywhere. Their statements are unfortunate. We're going everywhere. As MP, we have nowhere to worry about going as the Republican People's Party Group. Until today, the martyr's funeral, whether in Turkey's most difficult geography, where the CHP is the weakest, where you provoke the most hate speech, our 139 deputies and our President-General have gone like lions, and will go after that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, if you're saying that we can't go. If there are places you can't go, it's not the people that are responsible.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0507par0063	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0508par0064	It is responsible for your unfair, provocative, aiming, evilizing, aberrant, toxic political language that you use not only to lose a few municipalities, but to get a few extra city council members. Lose him, you can go anywhere in peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0507par0067	Thank you. Mr. Oluç, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0507par0072	Dear Oluç, don't worry, my heart is open today, and I'm giving everyone plenty of time.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0073	Okay, thank you. Now, of course, I'd like to talk about the budgets of other ministries, but as a matter of fact, I'd like to focus on the Ministry of Interior budget, and I'd like to say a few words about the Home Secretary's speech. Now, number one: I'm going to use these words with sadness, but I have to use them, so provocative, so polarizing...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0510par0076	He told the truth.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0511par0077	Salih, shut up!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0078	...with such dissociative, hostile language, it's actually a very reflective situation in the state of power today in Turkey. The mirror of power is the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Instigation, polarization...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0512par0080	You're doing the same thing.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0513par0081	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0082	...to turn society against one another, to spread hatred among the people, to break the Constitution, to break the law, to break the laws, to violate international democratic contracts signed by Turkey, and that is the focus of all of them, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Loud and clear. I'm telling your face, let's not be talking behind your back here. I'll tell you in your face what we talked about when you weren't here. Now, look, you've made this country into a country without freedom and democracy, without law; you've made it a country where human rights violations become a country where opposition, opposition speaker, opposition thinker, opposition movement is taken out of their homes, taken into custody, arrested, sued for freedom of speech, expression, and thought are violated.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0514par0086	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0087	Journalists, academics, workers who march for their rights, peasants who fight for their living space, all but all under your attack. It's not just these. Look, 391 women have been killed this year, 391 women. Five more women were killed while we were doing these budget interviews. You've become Home Secretary of the Interior who protests women's killings, who struggles to prevent women's killings, who prevents them from performing. You're the Home Secretary who's made sure all the world's demonstrations don't happen here. Now, we're talking about all these realities. So let me just say this: you've made Turkey a country where rights, law, justice doesn't work in any way; first of all, this is, let's figure it out in general.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0515par0091	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0092	Second, the attacks against HDP (HDP) and HDP (HDP). First, I'd like to address the attacks on our party's organizations. Look, your job as a Home Secretary should be to make political parties do their constitutional rights. What are you guys doing? You're obstructing the political party's constitutional rights with detention and arrests. You're making arrests and arrests against us, our county managers, our members, our members of the Party Assembly. Why? Because they're working for county, county congresses; they're trying to get the party to do the district and county conventions. In order not to have this done, you're taking these people into custody with completely unsubstantiated allegations, false statements, and arresting them. You're committing a constitutional crime by obstructing the political activities of the political party.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0515par0095	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0096	Let's put that aside, and let's get down to the famous subject, the trustees. We'll discuss this in every area, on every platform, of course, and we'll discuss it from now on. Now, the election was held on March 31st. We won 65 municipalities in the March 31st election. In fact, we've won six more, but with the trap set by the High Election Board -- you're probably in that trap -- six of our municipalities have been taken out, they haven't been served. From 19 August to today, you have appointed trustees from 65 municipalities to 28. 18 of our co-chairs are under arrest. Now, I want to express once again what these trustee appointments mean here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0516par0100	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0101	The election was held on March 31st, the chest was set up, people went and voted. The candidates have been nominated and elected by the approval of the Supreme Election Board. They were selected from 65 per cent to 75 per cent in their selection. Some of them have 55 percent, 54 percent votes, of course. So where they've been chosen, they've been chosen to win the public's great gratitude. So, what do you guys do? Four and a half months after March 31st, you start to suspend those chosen ones from their duties, and then you make arrests and arrests. Why? Did they commit any violations of their duties after March 31st? They didn't. So, why are you doing this? Sir, they're being investigated. There may be an investigation.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0516par0104	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0105	There may be various cases that have been filed in the past. The Supreme Election Board has decided that such investigations and open cases are no obstacle to running for office. You've given one example, tell me about 27. There are no provisions for 27 of them. You've already made plans to relieve them. Before March 31st, you planned to win the will of the Kurdish people in order to eliminate the law of the polls, the law of the polls, and you're taking it step by step from August 19th to win the will of the Kurdish people. You actually planned to do it earlier, actually, from April Fool's Day. Because why do we know that?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0516par0108	Mr. Oluç, finish your words, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0110	I'll try to complete it, sir. You planned to do it from April 1st because Mardin, Diyarbakır and Van Governors sent a letter to the Ministry of Interior, dated April 1st, asking to be appointed trustee. Now, as of April 1st, you couldn't appoint the trustee because the Istanbul elections weren't clear because you didn't know what was going to happen in Istanbul, so you waited, or you would have appointed the trustees earlier. Now, look, when I say you're elected, I want to point out that you've just said that I'm a party member, a party minister. Yes, of course, you're a party member, you're a party minister, but there's no law in the elections that insults the voters, presidents, executives, lawmakers, the political parties who oppose and compete with him.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0516par0113	Complete your words, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0114	But you did this, you created a huge inequality, and we put that aside.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0517par0115	Read the last paragraph, Article 127, the last paragraph!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0116	Despite all that you've done, the People's Democratic Party has carried out its election strategy and has made it very difficult for many municipalities to leave your hands, and that was the success of our election tactic.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0518par0118	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0509par0119	It's not over, sir. Excuse me.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0518par0120	Your last words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0519par0122	Is this going on until morning, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0520par0123	Mr. President, let him finish.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0518par0124	Guys, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Oluç, please complete.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0521par0126	I'm completing it. Now, Congressmans, we've been talking a lot about these trustee issues, and we're gonna keep talking.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0518par0129	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0522par0130	He spoke for an hour where the ministers were! He's saying the same thing!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0523par0132	None of your business! You run this place!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0518par0133	Mr. Oluç, I'll take your last words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0524par0134	I can't speak, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0525par0135	They've been talking about the same thing for a month!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0526par0136	None of your business! What's the matter with you? Why are you shouting!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0527par0137	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0528par0138	Some of the trustees that you appointed were corrupt in the first place. You yourself removed them. The court reports that the rest of them committed corruption, corruption, theft. You're saying that we've relieved the mayors of Istanbul, Ankara and other cities. What happened? You've elected a deputy mayor among the city councils. Have you appointed a trustee? You didn't. So, let me ask you one more thing: did you fire these mayors, what did they do, steal, corruption, or lust after the mayor?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0527par0139	Mr. Oluç, please complete.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0528par0140	Sir, these were taken because he said so, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0527par0141	This is all on the record.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0528par0142	Are there any cases or investigations filed against them? No. What the hell is this?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0527par0143	Thank you...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0528par0144	Now, last thing I'm going to say is, you've used a major inflammatory language to protect your own power and seat from us, as you've done here in other times.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0527par0146	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0528par0147	You used a serious hate speech. You did this to the 3rd party of this House.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0529par0148	What do you have to do with PKK?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0530par0149	Nobody has a problem with seats at this party!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0528par0150	Let us now say to you: "It bothers you that we stand firm in the face of your oppression, your injustices, and your injustices. Look, we'll stand up, stand up, we'll use our democratic rights, and you won't see that the HDP is finished, but we'll see that you get out of that chair, we'll see for sure.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0531par0152	Thank you, Mr. Oluç. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0532par0155	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, Mr. Free Special sends the ministry to bring in the ban on these parcel-based development changes and to arrange the island's location, and the legislature serves in that framework. Because in Mehmet Muş's presidency, our former mayor of the city, who is particularly familiar with the matter, has been working on this law for 20 days upstairs. If it had come from the Ministry, there would have been a settlement that would have gone directly to the Commission without any work being done. That's out of the question.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0531par0158	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0532par0159	Of course, some ideas, some trends from the ministry, but the work is strictly run in parliament, and we will share the issue with other political party groups after the group's work is finished. After these talks, we're going to settle the matter with the Commission, and I just wanted to let you know once. Second: We do not participate in these negative assessments of our Minister of the Interior in any way, and we reject all of them completely, so let's report it. Earlier, these criticisms have been voiced and discussed by the Ministry of Interior, who have been targeted directly on the subject at some time, through various activities at some time. And our friends gave us their assessments and their responses.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0533par0163	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0532par0164	I'd like to inform you that the will of a collective group is not the will of an ethnic identity, no matter where it is chosen, no matter where it is. He's talking about Kurds, our friends. The Kurds are all over Turkey, which I know is mainly in Western Anatolia. The chosen people are chosen by the established people there, and I don't think it's right to call them ethnic names. Such an approach points to an idea of Turkey based primarily on ethnic identity, which has a feeling of opposition and strategy for the people -- which is the source of long talk. So you have to use these expressions very carefully. The point is, there is actually a sociopolitical atmosphere in Turkey. Part of this is shaped by a democratic will, such as the People's Democratic Party.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0534par0168	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0532par0169	Some of them -- I'm saying, in terms of determining the atmosphere -- are being shaped by an illegitimate terrorist organization on the same ground, called the PKK; its method, strategy, tools, and tools. But in all, the People's Democratic Party and the PKK are breathing in the same atmosphere. The People's Democratic Party is undoubtedly continuing its work on democratic ground, and we believe that a political will that is constantly in contact with the public, who communicates with people on democratic ground, has a mind that does not give bonus to illegitimate ways and methods. The terrorist organisation also has an approach that sees democratic methods as only logistical support, which sees it as its own ammunition, primarily as a background supporter for its own purpose.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0534par0171	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0532par0172	These two separate from each other by method, by means of means, but the truth in Turkey is that these two actors breathe from the same sociopolitical atmosphere. Which brings me to this, and I think that's the main problem for the People's Democratic Party: illegality with legality, legitimacy and non-discriminalism disappear on this floor. The sense of legitimacy in some people's minds is getting out of control over the rule of Turkey's sense of legitimacy. Who's going to follow when that happens? It's the state of law; it pursues, and it achieves the necessary results. What happened is what we see in this frame. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0534par0175	Thank you. Mr. Oluç, then I'll make you a short, one-minute promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0535par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. So a contrast between the peoples, an hostility is never something we do; on the contrary, we struggle to ensure the brotherhood and equality of the peoples. So all of our policies and our rhetoric are related to this, but it's clear that we'll keep saying this: When we talk about the trustees, the will of the people who have voted for the HDP, the mayor, the city council, the general assembly elected. When you go and look, all those who have been suspended are Kurds, and many of those who have voted for them, I'm talking about places assigned to them, and I'm not talking about the West -- it's Kurds. Now, therefore, the will of the Kurdish people is being undermined, an hostility against the Kurdish people is being created.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0534par0182	Your last words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0535par0183	The last sentence, sir. When we say enemy law is being enforced, that's basically what we're saying from here. Now, the HDP has followed a very determined stance on democratic politics from its establishment to this day. Despite all the pressures, the liquidation attempts, he has not backed down from democratic politics. That is why we are here today; the HDP struggles to create a democratic solution to the Kurdish problem, a democratic and peaceful solution. It's illegal...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0536par0187	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0535par0188	Last, sir, if you'll excuse me, my last words indeed. HDP has nothing to do with any illegality. You say the state of law, Mr. President, the state of law. Of course, if it were the state of law, we'd have hair on our necks, but right now our former co-Chairs and lawmakers are being held in prison illegally, and our various elected friends are being held in prisons illegally. Look, Selahattin Demirtaş, how many times have we told you...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0536par0191	I'm opening it now, but please make it the last words.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0535par0192	I'm talking about a person you all know. In spite of the release of 2 courts on which he has been tried, he is being held hostage in prison in a completely illegal way, through deception, in a fake manner. Now, is this a law state or a law state practice? So, yes, if we had a law state, we'd have hair on our necks, but there's no such thing. I want to point him out. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0537par0195	Okay, thank you. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account On behalf of his people, the last word against him is Mr. Servet Ünsal. Mr. Ünsal, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0245	Dear President, Mr. Ministers, my fellow lawmakers, of course, we've been listening to over 10 ministers on the budget for six days now. It was opposition, it was power, everyone said what they were going to say, but of course, as a fellow physician, I have to say some things -- of course, as an intellectual. Guys, I don't understand, if there's growth, there's unemployment, one.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0539par0247	We didn't say no.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0248	Yeah... Two: A country where young people are not happy is a truly troubled country. I especially say that when young people in this country are happy only in their dreams, there is a great deal of trouble in this country. My dear friends, my dear Ministers and my fellow lawmakers, we have a bard called Seyid Nesimi.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0540par0251	Long live Seyid Nesimili!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0252	Seyid Nesimili has a line, my friends, that says: "I don't know all the roses that end in Har, I look after Farisi, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't appreciate the way the womb/Ibn studied." [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Well, friends, there are demons in every country at certain times, and you know them very well...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0541par0255	Who is this demon?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0256	Of course, everyone spoke today -- the sixth day, the 7th day -- about the budget, but you all know that a demon...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0542par0257	The floor is out of the House.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0541par0258	Who is this demon?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0259	I'm going to talk about the legal problems of a demon in this country that cost us a day, a month, not a year's budget, but a 30-year budget, so I'm going to talk about what's been done in law.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0541par0260	Is the floor out of the House?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0261	Out. Take it personally.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0543par0262	Guys, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0263	Friends, ever since the establishment of the PKK, it has always been on the side of power and power. Listen to me, I'm telling you this as a friend of yours. In 2002, when the AK PARTY came to power, it found its immediate approach to power. In the process, he entered the army, the police, the HSYK, the Supreme Court, the TÜBITAK, the staffing movement. In the 1970s, the seeds of the Kenan universe grew and sprouted, my friends, and in the 1990s, the branch sprouted, but when it came to the 2000s, it was able to strike gold. Friends have been charged with changing the secular state structure to form an organisation for the purpose of establishing a religious policy-based state order. Guys, he grew up so fast back then, he went and opened up a bank called Asia. You all know who cut his ribbon. Friends, on 15/3/999 -- I've experienced these as doctors of the judiciary, and I'm drawing a picture for you -- the report on the construction of the state and its objectives by Commissioner Cevdet Saral and Deputy Interior Minister Osman Ak has been submitted to the Security Directorate. Look, it's 15/3/999.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0544par0267	So until then, it was in the government.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0268	In 21/3/1999, Fetullah Gulen fled to America in five days. Why? Because of the structure of the safety.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0544par0269	Who was in the government?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0270	Yes, when he went to America, I was informed of all of them as this indictment was being prepared in the 2000s. Look, my friends, the case of Noah Mete Asşağıne -- this is the indictment of Nuh Mete Asşal. I was the doctor of the court, and I had it, and a tape frame was taken away. Noah Mete Yüksel was eventually removed from duty. After that, Ilhan Cihaner was arrested for conspiracy during this period. Later, after Noah Mete, we have a friend named Prosecutor Hamza Keleş - a friend of mine, because I am a doctor of the apartment. It was taken from him after that, given to our brother, a prosecutor named Salim Demirci. Later, Salim Demirci was framed and listened to, just like Noah Mete.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0545par0273	Mr. Ünsal, collect your words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0274	Mr. President, do something.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0546par0275	What does this have to do with health?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0276	With this objection, the prosecutor Salim Demirci. Fetullah, who was tried at the High Criminal Court... but in 2003, when the AK PARTI came to power, he changed the Anti-Terror Law. When I changed it, Fetullah was no longer an armed organization, and when I put it in the form of the other organization, in severe punishment, 11. He was acquitted of severe punishment. So Salim Demirci applied to the Supreme Court, Supreme Court 9. In the Department of Corrections, friends, he's on trial. Nine. Abdurrahman Yalçınkaya sued the Criminal General Assembly when he was acquitted of this law. From the General Assembly of Punishment, friends have passed from the pressure, violence, and threat to 17 to 6; 17 to 6. It's very interesting that 17 people -- 17 people have asked for an acquittal of Fetollah -- I'll say three names, very important, look, remember: One, Ismail Ruzitt, the Supreme Court's President. Look, guys, it's important, he's on duty today.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0547par0278	Mr. Unisal, thank you, your time is up.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0279	Please, just one more minute, it's over.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0547par0280	No, I can't give you a minute, I can't.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0548par0282	Mr. President, let's give it a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0283	Please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0547par0284	Well, complete it, on a public request. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0538par0286	Thank you. All right, guys, two, seven. The head of the Department of Corrections is now Mehmet Happy. Look, those who ask for the pardon of Å. Another one, six. The President of Penalty is now Erkan Ozturk. Friends, now, what I'm trying to say is that life lives forward, but it's understood backwards. In that sense, my dear friends, I'll ask everyone again who is the political wing of the GER. But another verse of what we call an example is that the heart of the truth is a mirror, the heart of the mirror, the heart of the House / is not Mecca / I don't want a mosque, I don't want a temple / service of humanity. [[Applause from CHP rows]] May the worship of all of us serve mankind. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0549par0293	Dear lawmakers, in the fifth round, political party groups, executive and individuals have met their demands for a speech. Now we're going to question-answer. Mr. Milky, you'll be asking questions for yourself, and I assume you've taken the time of Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0550par0296	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0549par0297	I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0550par0299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Home Secretary, there's a dance started in Chile, and it's called "Las Facility" all over the world to draw attention to violence against women, and the only country you have to be untouchable to do this action is Turkey, thanks to you. Now, as female lawmakers, on behalf of all women who have been abused and killed, we have a word with you, if I may. [[Photo display by CHP MPs]] [[It's not my fault / It's not my fault / It's wherever / Whatever I'm wearing / It's not my fault / Wherever / Whatever I've drunk / It's not my fault / It's your fault / You're the rapist / You're the killer / Cops, the judges, the government and the president / Women who resist / You'll never walk around the world / You'll never walk alone / You'll never walk alone / You'll never walk alone / You'll never walk alone / You'll never walk alone / You'll never walk alone / You'll never walk alone / You'll never walk alone / You'll never walk alone / You'll never walk alone / You'll never say the words you'll never walk alone / You'll never walk alone /]] [[Applause from CHP, HDP and GOOD PARTY]] And for all our female friends that we've lost this year, Mr. Secretary, we'd like to do the same for you, your interests and your knowledge.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0551par0306	Mr. Stoneborn...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0552par0307	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, my question is to our Minister of Health.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0551par0309	Guys, please... Mr. Stoneborn, you go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0552par0311	As of April 4, 2018, do you plan to put a large number of subcontractors on staff, but in hospitals, do you plan to employ over 3,000 employees known as HBYS personnel? My second question: the subcontractors who serve as assistants are employed in hospitals after being recruited. Some of them want to be college graduates, civil servants, or data-preparing inspectors. Are you thinking of hiring? There are well-trained nurses, medical secretaries, paramedics, physical therapists, a lot of major staff waiting, what's your new staff plan? Our city of Metropol, Gaziantep...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0553par0316	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0554par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is an imperial balance. Of every three people living in our country, one is an immigrant, an immigrant child, or an immigrant grandson. In time, Turks from Spain, Central Europe, Balkans, Crimea, Islands, Caucasus, Ahiska, Afghanistan, Georgia and Iraq, Bosniaks, Pomaks, Albanians, Roma, Tatars, Kurds, Jews, Turkmen, Çerces, Chechens, Georgians came and took refuge, all joined together to form great Turkey. I wish they could stay there, but it doesn't happen with wishes. The religion of the oppressed is not to be asked for his identity. Again, when it comes to our Kurdish brothers, Kurds, Turkmen, who have fled from the persecution in Syria that has been torn from us, someone is making another agenda by heating it up and foaming at it. If there's no racist attitude here, there's a double standard, and I condemn it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0553par0320	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0555par0321	Mr. Secretary, why don't you explain the contract for city hospitals? As long as you don't explain it, if you keep your mouth shut, you can't cover the allegations of corruption here, you've accepted these claims, will you explain the contracts? I'm asking the Minister of Health: the price of the S.U.T. has been the same for ten years while the needle to thread increases everything. For the last ten years, the dollar has increased 450 percent, the electricity has increased 300 percent, and electricity and natural gas has been increased 10 times this year alone. In this country, you've been paying $280 for an auto exam at a car exam station, $65 for an exhaust exam, and only $30 for a human examination in hospitals for the last ten years. Isn't a human exam worth as much as a exhaust exam to you? Again, over a thousand supplies in hospitals are over the price of SUT, the price of surgery is $1,000, the amount of equipment is $2,000. That's why surgeries can't be performed; it's called "do not be done by instruction" or "get the patient." It's called "get the patient." Are you going to make an adjustment now?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0556par0324	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0557par0325	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, we know the aunt, we know the bilateral, we know the metaphor. And we're gonna keep moving, so there's no turning back from here. Madam Secretary, the three active ministers of the Cabinet are here. Particularly in the interest of public contractors, especially about 18,000 contract workers working in municipalities, if a decision is not made within fifteen days, the mayors will end their work -- the majority of them are being served -- will be terminated. I expect the cabinet's three ministers to move on to their agenda immediately. Also in Adana, in Çukurova, you know, Berdan Textil, Çukurova Textil is closed. One of the largest factories in the region is TEMSA. Temsa's being sold to a foreign company, so he's getting locked up right now. This is one of the most important factories for Adana and Mersin... for the rescue of TEMSA (TEMSA)... in order to make sure that this is on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. I expect you to put that on your agenda, wish your budget good luck, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0558par0329	Mr. Oztunç...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0559par0330	I'm asking the Minister of Environment. Minister of the Environment, if you listen, I ask you: I told you during the local elections that Aksu Tea in Kahramanmarash was dirty and the poison was flowing, and you said no, it was clean. So I told you, come on in, let's grass here together. If you do not know the meaning of grass, it means to wash, to swim in Anatolia. Now I say in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: Minister, if you have time and you believe that Aksu Tea is still clean, let's all go to Kahramanmarash and we'll go together with our lawn and a referee. The referee is Hasan Kalyoncu, a scientist who studies hydrobiology at Aksu Tea, if he agrees. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0560par0333	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0561par0334	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, our Ministry of Health, our Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the budgets of our institutions for 2020 are good for our country, for our nation. My question will be to our Home Secretary: Mr. Secretary, the stronger the civil society is, the stronger our country will be. In this regard, what is being done at the point of the more democratic level of legislation towards civil society, increasing transparency in civil society, strengthening the institutional capacities of NGOs, encouraging participation in decision-making mechanisms, promoting volunteering to all parts of society, improving social entrepreneurialism, developing a sense of charity and donation in society? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0562par0338	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0563par0339	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to our Home Secretary, Mr. Noble. When will the construction of his project, which was founded in 2018, and the Malatya Battalgazi, in 2019, begin the construction of the Malatian Special Operations Regional Presidency, which is important to our province and region, which has been allocated 2,200 acres of land in Malatya Battalgazi? Again, last March and April, earthquakes in our province have caused financial damage to our districts of Arguvan, Puturge, Doğanyol. Due to the Metropolitan Law, DASK insurance is required from damaged households. Most of the areas affected by these earthquakes are rural, so most of them do not have DASK. Is it considered to be issued a decree in the same direction as DASK exemption, which was issued once in 2017 in order to address the victims of the earthquake? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0564par0343	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0565par0344	I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of Environment that pollution is increasing in our country, which is a very dangerous situation for our future. My city of Kahramanmarash suffers from serious environmental pollution. Thermal plants and industrial companies operate without chimney filters and without treatment facilities. The environment is the cause of 90 percent of the disease, but the Ministry of Health is not interested in the environment, and you are in full responsibility. I think the Environmental Law cannot protect the environment. Admin punishments are not deterrent. What do you think? I think those who deliberately desecrate the environment should be tried for TK 181. Have you ever asked the prosecutors about this? I don't think the CED report is protecting the environment. How do you feel about the creation of many organizations? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0564par0346	Mr. Paper...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0566par0347	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to our Minister of Environment and Urbanism: although it was intended in 2018 to be registered in violation of zoning and unlicensed structures under the name of peace, our citizens were victimised by the lack of regular regulation, control and information. The relevant Minister of the period and ruling party officials have made a verbal statement that the zoning and mera structures are part of the zoning peace. In light of these explanations, our citizen paid for the structures found on the bows and meadows and received the building registration documents. Today, there are reports of destruction of these structures that have been issued with building registration documents. In this case, both the money our citizens are paying is wasted and their structure is in danger of destruction. The issue must be resolved immediately, and the concerns and victims of the citizen must be resolved. Does our ministry have any work on this? Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0567par0350	Yeah, I'm going to go with the answer process. Mr. Husband, come in, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0568par0352	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, I repeat the sentence I read: One of the first legislature activities of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the 27th term was an arrangement for the rights of self-esteem that health workers have long been waiting for. With the support of our lawmakers, additional payment has been made on the pensions of physicians and dentists, and the actual service increase that all our health workers have been waiting for has been given. I said, "We are," I said, "We are." I would also like to thank our deputies for their support for these achievements of our health care staff. This was the sentence. What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0569par0354	What support? We're making the law!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0568par0355	No, I'm saying thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0569par0356	We can thank you, Congress is making the law.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0570par0357	Mr. Secretary, you go ahead, the clock is ticking.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0568par0358	Moving on.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0569par0359	You say the first thing we did was work.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0568par0360	Other than that, it's about city hospitals; there's a cost of use; two, maintenance; three, service costs. The price of use is 25 years of rent. In this period of rent, there is no commitment or guarantee in surgery, not in emergency services, not in patients or in clinics, not 25 years, but in the ministry alone. In five years, and we may not have to buy these services in five years, and we don't have to buy them, and at 70 percent of the time we're buying lab services in public in our own hospitals, we're buying them at 70 percent here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0571par0361	Doesn't he pay rent, rent?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0568par0362	40 per cent... up to 70 per cent, another 40% off after 70 per cent. So it's meant to be given more discounts, not an element that determines the rent. I want to underline that.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0571par0363	How much is the rent?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0568par0364	Moving on. Regarding the blood products... yesterday, with our President, we had a very good meeting with our fellow pharmacists, and many topics were discussed. We're never in favor of any medication being removed from the hands of pharmacists and bypassed.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0572par0365	But it's being done now.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0568par0366	Wait a minute... I'm telling you, I've listened to you, so let's talk. I'm here to say my opinion. A contract has been made. In August 2018, 15 months ago -- not six months ago, but fifteen months ago -- this contract has a twenty-four month period. In this period of time -- there's only one person in the health department commission -- make sure that we'll go all the way as the Ministry of Health at the point where the interested firm has to do its part at this point, at the point where they're going to transfer the information-how. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition, the amount of plasma you call the last three months is 3.6 percent. I'm saying the ratio in particular. By the end of January 2019 and 2020, these plasmas were completely consumed on December 2nd -- December 2nd, this month's 2nd.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0573par0370	He can't get it in less than a year, he's got it in three months for free!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0568par0371	The remaining products are dated 2021 and 2022.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0573par0372	No.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0568par0373	I mean right now.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0573par0374	Did he put in three months? Did he give it to the patient? He gave it to the patient.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0574par0375	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0568par0376	No, they ran out; January was over, they ran out, December 2nd.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0573par0377	Normally, less than a year, you can't. Look!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0574par0378	Mr. Special, please, Mr. Special, there's no time for further questions from the two of you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0573par0379	Not for less than a year. Is it stuck?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0575par0380	In the following process, we're talking about 3.6 per cent of the total share of this, and 2021-2022 is on the market.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0573par0381	It's a shame!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0576par0382	Mr. Special, Mr. Secretary will not be able to answer the other questions.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0573par0383	One sentence... they applied it to our patients, ours and ours, and it's forbidden! They're doing something that's forbidden!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0576par0384	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0577par0385	Other than that, the tender documents concerning the Court's reports, including the court's data room, all the requested documents were submitted to the Court expert on 24/10/2018, and the double-signed delivery document is in our file. The court was asked if there was any public damage to it. On 4/10/2019, there is no public report of public damage in this sense. There is a report from the Court. It is also understood that documents requested by the Court's team have been submitted by your Ministry with a report dated 29/11/2018...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0576par0387	Madam Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0578par0388	How much do you rent to city hospitals, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0576par0389	Yes, Mr. Institution...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0579par0390	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0576par0391	Okay. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0579par0393	In particular, why are foreign courts, not Turkish courts, in disputes with foreign financial institutions, being authorized? Turkish courts are the key to the disputes between the ministry and the contractor.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0580par0394	How's the investigation going?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0579par0395	This matter is very clear in contracts, and it is absurd to even think otherwise, but the fact that the International Law on Reconstruction on Foreign Financial Institutions is valid in conflicts is the law of the High Assembly, which you make.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0580par0396	We said no, they said yes.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0579par0397	We didn't, we're doing the law.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0580par0398	We said no, we said no. Friends said yes, we didn't say yes,
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0581par0399	Mr. Institution, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0579par0400	My last sentence...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0581par0401	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0579par0402	The option for international investigation was only brought to implement Turkish law on conflicts with financiers, if Turkish law is implemented while international law is enforced. In disputes with contractors, Turkish courts are in charge.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0581par0403	Thank you, Minister. Let's apply a law here.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0582par0405	Give the I.T.s at the hospital a staff, staff.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0581par0406	Mr. Institution, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0583par0407	On our visit to Kahramanmarash... about the pollution of Aksu Tea... we had a meeting with our Chamber of Commerce and Industry, our Governor, our deputies. Of course, this pollution is caused by our industry there. We told both our Chamber President and our industrialists there that we would be able to carry out any responsibility for us as the Ministry, but here, we would no longer allow the environment, Aksu Tea, to be polluted. They're doing their own work, along with our Governor-General of the County Bank, our Ministry, our General Directorate of Environment Management. We will take the necessary steps to save Aksu Tea, and we will take them with our industrialists, with our deputies, with our municipality. Hopefully, soon, we will take measures to save Aksu, just like the measures we take in our other teas, in our rivers. A building registration certificate can be obtained at Mera and plateaus, but they can't buy the land, so the building registration document can be obtained, it can't buy property; that's the law. Buildings after 2018 are not already subject to zoning peace. You know, the zoning peace was completed as of December 31st, 2017, and it is also a law that was set up to solve problems of our citizens, such as electricity, water, natural gas, and property issues, and the benefit of nearly 10 million citizens. Therefore, construction structures after 2018 are not included, and they can also receive a building registration certificate in the streets. It's about pollution, and if there's anything missing from our law by constantly consulting with our House, we're working with any additional criminal action related to the law, and frankly, I think we're at an advanced point in comparison with other countries. We'll bring in the deposit system, which will be an important step in the system, again in the name of environmental pollution. Our recycling rate is now 13%. We're going to take steps to increase this recycling rate to 35 percent, and the Zero Waste Project is really important in this framework. Other than that, again, we have talks with our council, our group, about climate law, and we're negotiating with relevant commissions. The climate change, now affected by the world, is now affected by our country -- because it is in the Mediterranean basin. Of course, we're doing the work that will minimize the impact, but I think that a climate law should be prepared together by our Parliament, and we're doing our work in that framework.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0584par0412	Thank you. Mr. Noble, please come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0414	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressmans, if God grants us the construction of the Malatya Special Ops Building, we begin in 2020, his plan, his project, everything, the allocation of money, hopefully, if God wills it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0586par0416	Everything's ready, we're waiting for the money.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0417	Here we go. There's a 95-point law against earthquakes. This law includes both our naval districts -- I mean, their DASK exemption, because they're in the country -- and in Malatya, there's Doğanyol and Puturge.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0586par0419	There's arguvan.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0420	But I'll look into Arguvan again, no Arguvan. I mean, I know that we're talking about Arguvan, and maybe there's a problem with having rights, but I'll look at it again. In particular, there's a question asked by the Republican People's Party, or rather, there's an action he's doing, and I'll tell you now. Look, guys, the ladies there, the women there, they're the pain of each and every one of us. We're all going to settle this together, but I'm going to read what you're telling me now, so if this is going to be settled, let the House hear it. If this Parliament continues to say this, I am the Minister of the Interior, despite the law, I will exercise my broadest rights against the Constitution. But what you're saying is that you're the rapist, you're the killer, the cops, the judges, the state and the president.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0587par0422	Men...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0423	Now, look, what you're saying is, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, if stenographers are writing... now, what can we say about the women's issue of NGOs, about the murders, about dancing or something? It's something we'll all do together. Turkey's current laws, all women's organisations and women's NGOs say that the standards of European Union laws are even slightly above them. So, what do we all have to do together? We need to get the app to a point. So, what's our scale in the world? Of course, even the sight of violence of a single woman is our suffering, our pain, and we need to prevent it, and that's true.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0588par0425	We can't stop it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0426	Wait a second! Look, there were 353 women's murders in Turkey in 2017. I'm not talking about the murders those NGOs collected from newspaper clippings, I'm talking about what's in the framework of the relevant law. In 2018, this fell to 279. I've seen the signal since this March, and I've seen it seriously, all of the public institutions together... because I get the first signal. Why? I look at death. So I've seen the increase in these women's murders. The increase is not just in us; in France, in Europe, in many countries. Plus, the number of violences against domestic women is 219,000 in 2018, 170,000 in the first 11 months of 2019. It's down 17 percent from 11 months last year. The result is that there is an increase in the killings, not like 2017, but there is a decrease in the events. Globally, on the world scale, women's murder in the World Health Organization -- within the framework of the relevant law -- 13 per million, 7 per million on the continent of Europe, 3.8 per million in Turkey. Well, should this three-eight fall down? Yeah, it's got to be zero, that's right. And what do we do about it? Look, it's really our responsibility, it's Turkey's responsibility. There's training, but I'm not letting the ball go to training. Right now, all the ministries, under the leadership of our Family Minister -- the head of this business is the Minister of the Family -- the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Religious Affairs -- have all come together, our friends have worked, they've started a 75-point action plan. Look, for the past four days, the Police Headquarters and the General Staff have been working for our people. On Tuesday, our governors will be together. I picked up our women's co-ops the other day. All the ministries are planning their own action. I can tell you this: in 2020, may our shortcomings in this matter be what we need to do in practice? Yeah. We've done, I don't know, a lot of... I'm sorry, there's Arguvan, no Battalgazi.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0589par0431	It's not Battalgazi, it's Arguvan and Puturge.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0432	There's Arguvan, there's Arguvan. Now, I have to say, yes, that's true, but together... look, you're the MP, you're responsible, and I'm the Minister, and I'm responsible, and we're all responsible. The citizen will not separate me from you. But if we frame a group called you/Killers, Cops, Judges, State.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0590par0435	That's an understanding, Mr. Secretary. We're not talking about you personally!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0591par0436	Why are you offended?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0437	Look, it's not an understanding, no, no. There's no such thing!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0590par0438	It's patriarchal understanding we're talking about.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0592par0439	Friends, please... Mr. Lady, please...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0440	Yeah, there's no such thing, there's no such thing. I'm saying something. Well, then let the Republican People's Party say, OK, there's no harm in saying "rapist." The rapist police... ▪ Is such a thing possible?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0592par0443	Friends, please, Mr. Sullu, Mr. Milky...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0593par0444	I'll say it.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0445	I'm going on, please... one second. I'm done with this. I'm reading one more thing and finishing it, Mr. President. The ETA, which advocates the independence of the Basque Region, was founded in 1959. Herri Batasuna was founded in 1978, which spoke similar words with ETA. In 2002, Herri Batasuna and two other political parties were closed by the Spanish Supreme Court. The arguments for closure are: 1) There is an identical relationship between these three parties and the terrorist organization ETA. I'm also saying that the judge who investigated this relationship identified this relationship for 23 reasons. Among them are the nomination of political prisoners from the party. 2) Each three parties are under strict control by ETA. 3) The fact that parties were formed at different times is also a product of operational planning set up by ETA. 4) ETA has led the Herri Batasuna (herri Batasuna) since its establishment. 5) Participating in systematic activities under the leaders of the terrorist organization's ideas and the ideology of the terrorist organization will mean membership in the terrorist group. 6) Those suspected of being a member of a terrorist organization will not be able to take part in a task that gives them the power to carry out these actions on various grounds. For these reasons, the Spanish Supreme Court determines that the party is in a position to respond to a strategy planned by the ETA, that it supports social conflict, that it deals with terrorist activities with tolerance, that it does not condemn terrorist acts, and that it is very important -- at this point, that it embezzles these activities by choosing strategic and systematic silence. Another thing: the European Court of Human Rights has approved this decision.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0594par0457	Are you referring to fascist principles now, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0458	Look, the European Court of Human Rights has approved this decision.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0595par0459	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0585par0460	I thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0596par0461	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, let your group explain. To make that clear...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0595par0462	About what?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0596par0463	While he was just talking...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0595par0464	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0596par0467	Mr. Secretary, let's get one thing straight. The Republican People's Party, me, my friends, will not hesitate to accuse you of something and expose you at a point where he sees you guilty, but the issue here is this: this song, which is the voice of women who have been murdered and raped by women -- women who, unfortunately, can't say it in one Turkey -- and women who have been murdered and raped. It starts in Chile.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0597par0468	You're abusing women.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0598par0469	There's no abuse. What abuse!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0596par0470	It was so international, so meaningful, so meaningful.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0597par0471	It's abuse, abuse!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0596par0472	For God's sake, please don't use words to embarrass the MPs of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0597par0473	It's woman abuse, woman!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0596par0474	Chile listens to it, Germany listens to it, Japan, Mexico...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0599par0476	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0596par0477	Venezuela, Spain, India, Germany, England. And we have to hear it, hear it, and feel it. That sound... the murdered women scream and say: "The state is killing us, the police are killing us, the judge and the president...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0600par0478	Don't make it up!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0596par0479	He's not saying the police killed him. Since the police didn't take the measures they needed to take, since Parliament didn't take the laws they had to, the judge had reduced a tie that I kicked the crap out of, and if we're talking about Turkey, we're going to brag about the Istanbul Convention, and that's because this Parliament didn't issue its full compliance laws...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0601par0481	Mr. Special, please, if I may have your final word, this is the last time I'm going to open it. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0596par0483	Mr. Secretary, I take note of this criticism as a man's MP, the voice of these women; of all the women who have been murdered and raped; as an MP who has not taken the necessary measures to protect her. If you do the same, these women will be saved.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0601par0485	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0602par0486	Mr. President, I have a sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0601par0487	Mr. Noble, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0602par0489	Mr. President, I have a sentence for Mr. Free. Mr. Ozgur, we may all be incomplete, but this song didn't come out of Chile because of the reason you sang it. Do you know why he left? The police killed two women, that's why he came out. So he didn't come out because of what you said. I can't...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0603par0490	Why is it read in Germany?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0602par0491	Look, there's no malmania in Germany!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0603par0492	It's all over the place.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0604par0493	It doesn't change the fact that it's become universal.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0602par0494	Look, I'll tell you this, that's why he didn't come out, that's why.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0605par0495	Yeah, well, women get killed, and there's a scream about it. Okay?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0602par0496	But you can make sense of it yourself.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0605par0497	It doesn't matter who kills them, they get killed.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0602par0498	However, it does not require that we call the police in Turkey, the judge, the state, the president, the rapist, and the murderer. If there's going to be dancing -- we'll all dance separately -- Latin America does the most dancing, we know where he is. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0605par0501	We're ashamed! I'm ashamed, I swear! I'm really ashamed of you!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0606par0502	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0607par0504	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, preventing violence against women and taking measures on this issue are the primary duties of Parliament. Anyone can do meetings and demonstration walks in this frame.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0608par0506	We can't.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0607par0507	However, we do not accept this kind of wire, humiliation, for they have fulfilled the law in the work, in the actions of our judges, prosecutors, law enforcement officers and security forces, who have followed the implementation of the laws adopted in parliament as part of our constitutional law order.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0609par0508	Who are we insulting? Wait a second... I don't accept that. We're not insulting anyone.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0610par0509	You don't get it, ever!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0609par0510	We're not insulting anyone, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0611par0511	However, in the work of Parliament, the public and those who are sensitive to the matter must first say that the judges and members of law must be judged because they fail to meet the requirements of the law.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0610par0513	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0609par0514	That's what it means. What's the point of picking up moisture from the cloud?
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0612par0515	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0613par0516	I would especially like to express that we do not accept and reject such approaches regarding our members of the judiciary, regarding our joint peacemakers.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0609par0517	For the record. It has nothing to do with law enforcement. The words of Las Facility are universal, the words of patriarchal order are spoken throughout the world. Shame on you, colleague!
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0613par0518	At the same time, I am stringing these separative expressions under the sacred roof of Parliament, while the collective, unifying language should be used. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0614par0520	Isn't there any negligence in Ceren's murder? Isn't there any negligence in Ceren's murder? Let them say that.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0615par0521	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0616par0522	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, for the record. Now, Mr. Secretary has made it very clear that he has threatened to shut down the People's Democratic Party by giving the example of ETA-Herri Batasuna. We know we're dealing with a power and executive that advocates closing the party. Clearly, this ruling party advocates closing down, we've seen it. Now the execution gives instructions on the judiciary. We say, "Here comes the direction of the execution on the judiciary." Look, seven parties have been shut down so far. Seven parties have been shut down and Peoples' Democratic Party has become the third party of Parliament. We know you're trying to shut down the HDP, and to remove the local authorities from HDP's hands, we know you're trying to eliminate us from democratic politics.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0615par0525	Please, wrap it up, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0616par0526	I'm picking it up, sir. Your problem is that we know that as a matter of fact, you've told us over and over again that this is happening. Let's just say, for the record, this is a power that closes the party, moves towards banning parties. It's normal, but that's the way it works, he can't stand the opposition. You can; if you do, democracy loses, democratic politics loses, we win.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0617par0529	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0618par0530	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0617par0531	Yes, dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0618par0532	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0617par0533	...the question-answer process is complete.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0618par0534	Mr. President, I'm so sorry. In our party, men's Group Vice Presidents don't talk about women. Just a minute...
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0617par0535	I can't promise, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0618par0536	Hey, I want to ask you something. Just a minute... 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0619par0583	Now, in turn, I will have the budgets of public administrations in the fifth round transferred to their precise accounts and budgets read separately to your votes. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. All the values I'm going to read are Turkish liras. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Health will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 58,875,829.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Health Ministry's central management budget was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Department of Health's Central Management account for the year 2018 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 30,548,325,007,16 Budget Expenses 37.041.199.435.54 Emancipation Expenses 9.042,797,719,97 Cancelled Fund 2,548,922,258,73 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 15.170.930.32 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the health department's central management account in 2018 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.19) TECHNICAN HUDUT AND AGREEMENT 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 152,450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 339.453,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate shall be transferred into the chapters of its final account in 2018: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 665.135.359.36 Budget Expenses 372.971.290.74 The grant goes to 98,984.03 Canceled Fund 292.263.052.65 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 251,800,000.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 252.635,000.00 Collection 592.317.417.48 Ret and Returns 29.323.636.77 Net Collection 562,993,780,71 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2018 of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate have been adopted. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.59) TÜRKEY MEDICINE AND TİBBI TERRIBLE PRODUCTION 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Centre Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 169,645,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 166.345,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Agency was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices shall be transferred into the chapters of 2018: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 142.949.458,78 Budget Expenses 133,456,020,18 Canceled Fund 9,493,438,60 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 134,725,000.00 Collection 129,288,335,69 Denied and returned 1,335,523,16 Net Collection 127,952,812,53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Medicine and Medical Device Agency were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Health Institutes shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.62) THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITIONS 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 79.578,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 79.578,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Health Institutes presidency was adopted for 2020. I submit to your votes that the President of the Turkish Health Institutes' final account for central management in 2018 will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 57,927,900,00 Budget Expenses 25,818,399,19 Canceled allowance 32,109,500,81 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 53,166,000.00 Collection 32,728,639,04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Health Institutes presidency were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 27) EARLIER AND GOVERNMENT 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 2,827,733,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the State Department of Environment and Urbanism's final account of central management in 2018 will be transferred to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 5,096,659,004,38 Budget Expenses 4,750.918,234,75 Canceled Fund 135,005,284,88 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 210,735,484.75 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was adopted in 2018, part of its final account of central management.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0620par0705	Mr. President, the AK PARTY Group doesn't raise their hand, you don't look at how it's accepted, they abstain.
tbmm-2019-12-14sit06spe0619par0706	I submit to your votes that the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 27.75) CAPU AND KADASTRO GENIOR PRODUCTION 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 1,185,359.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget for 2020 was adopted by the National Directorate of Tapu and Kadastro. In 2018, I submit to your votes that the central management account of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate shall be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 Total allowance is 1,283,380,720,08 Budget Expenses 1,070.137.823.63 Cancelled Fund 35,853,290,96 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 177,389,605,49 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Departures of the central management account of 2018 were adopted by the National Directorate of Tapu and Kadastro. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Interior will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 9.672.218,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior's central management budget was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of the Ministry of Interior in 2018 will be transferred to its specific sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 9.364,400,760,43 Budget Expenses 10,166,379,659,27 Compensation Expenses 1,047,914,218,94 Canceled allowance 245,935,320,10 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 172.345.826.00 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Home Office's central management account in 2018 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Security General Directorate will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 10.82) EMERGENCY GOVERNMENT 1) Police General Directorate 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 38,973,189.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Security Directorate was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Security General Directorate in 2018 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Police General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account Total grant 21,381,841,573,01 Budget Expenses 28.919.735.536.28 Emancipation Expenses 10,272,232,338,73 Canceled grant 2,725,702,419,71 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1.375.204.486.69 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2018 of the Security Directorate have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the General Command of the Gendarme shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 10:81) JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 22.968.117,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Gendarme General Command was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central administrative account of the General Command of the Gendarmes in 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Gendarme General Command 2018 Central Management Terminate Account Total allowance 14.238.027.986.69 Budget Expenses 16,253,810,766,63 Compensation Expenses 2.323.594.283,31 Cancelled Fund 306,924,682,36 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 306,736,011,16 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the General Command of the Gendarme were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Coast Guard Command be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 10:83 A.M.S.I.C.O.D. 1) Coast Guard Command 2020 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 1,128,824,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Coast Guard Command was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Coast Guard Command in 2018 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Coast Guard Command 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 875.146.964.21 Budget Expenses 812,934,520,18 Compensation Expenses 39,664.173,12 Cancelled Grant 101,876,617,15 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 55,709,289,10 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Coast Guard Command in 2018 have been approved. I submit to your votes that the Department of Immigration be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:85) GOVERNMENT OF GOVERNMENT 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 2,511,171,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of the Finnish Immigration Administration was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account for 2018 of the Department of Immigration Administration shall be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 Total allowance 942.030.576.83 Budget Expenses 890.196,500,83 Canceled Grant 51,834,076,00 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 34.302.766.42 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2018 were adopted by the Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate. I submit to your votes that the President of Disaster and Emergency Management shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 10.86) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 1,637,171,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the President of Disaster and Emergency Management shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The President of Disaster and Emergency Management 2018 Central Management Budget Total grant 3,646,302.462,12 Budget Expenses 3.574.354.560.63 Canceled Fund 71,947,901,49 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1,489,862,12 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account for 2018 were adopted as the head of disaster and emergency management. I submit to your votes that the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:84) KAMU PROCESS AND SAFENESS 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 10.761.367.00 Budget Expenses 9.659.046.29 Compensation Expenses 266.380.06 Canceled Fund 1,368,700,77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Administration account of 2018 of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security were adopted. So the budgets and certain accounts of public administrations in the fifth round have been accepted, and I wish them well. Congressmans, the fifth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Sunday, December 15, 2019, to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
