tbmm-2019-02-24sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. As you know, according to our agenda, we will do the work on the part of the election. That's why there won't be any extracurricular conversations. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament, Mr. Mustafa Şekirdağ MP, has reached our presidency on 23/2/2019 as to the resignation of Mr. Mustafa Sentop. of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Süzeyya Sadi Bilçic, MP of Isparta, wrote about his resignation as member of the Plan and Budget Commission, reached our presidency on 24/2/2019. It has been presented to your knowledge. Under the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda. Isparta MP Saryya Sadi Bilgicic has been nominated for acting chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is empty and falls into the Justice and Development Party Group. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Mersin MP Lütfi Elvan was nominated for a membership in the Justice and Development Party Group, which was empty in the Plan and Budget Commission. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. As you know, we're now running for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear MPs, Parliamentary President, it is the duty of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Pasha to raise our nation's moon and star to the sky, to bury the dreams of the invaders. The chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a state of historic glory that governs the Turkish nation's Battle of Liberation. We're making the choice. Good luck. There are motions to run for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm having it read according to the application order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We nominate Istanbul MP Engin Altay, who is scheduled to be elected President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in accordance with the 94th, 10th and 12th amendments of the Constitution. We demand and demand what we need. With all due respect. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We nominate Mr. Imam Huseyin Filiz, a member of the Gaziantep MP for the 27th Legislature of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We demand that it be done. 24/2/2019 Yavuz Zekalalioğlu Lütfü Türkkan Orhan Çakırer Ayhan Erel Behic Kahrettin Yosh İsmail Taşteoğlu Hasan Subaş Ahmet Çelik Aytun Çıray Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Aylin Gutler Enez Kaplan Durmiş Yilmaz Şenol Bal Koray Aydın İştin İştinoğlu Ayhan Altıntaş Aydın Adnan Sezgin Feridun Bahshi Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Metin Ergun İsmail Konçı Hüseyin Örs Hope DicBayer Hope White Muhammad Naci Cinisli [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We nominate our Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Şekirdağ, who will be elected President of TBMM on February 24, 2019, according to Article 10 of the Constitution's 94, Turkish Parliament. We'll see what we can do. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Müş Bült Turan Özlem Rich Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Cahit Özkan [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I want to run for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on February 24, 2019. I'll give you what you need. 22/2/2019 [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the election held on 24/2/2019 for the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under Article 10 of the 94th and TBM Interior Charter of the Constitution, we nominate Mr. Serpil Kemalbay Pekkoregü. Fatma Survivan Mahmut Toğrul Erol Katırcıoğlu [[Applause from HDP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I want to run for the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on February 24, 2019, to complete the period remaining in the first round, according to Article 10 of our Constitution 94, under Article 10 of the Constitution. I'll give you what you need. 22/2/2019 Congressmans, there's a petition to withdraw from the nomination of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from running for President of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. February 24, 2019 It has been presented to your knowledge. I'm reading the candidate names for the Speakership as they appear on the sealed ballot according to the alphabetical order of the electoral circles: [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] Members of parliament, under the fourth joke of Article 94 of the Constitution, the election of the President will be held by a secret vote. In order to be elected president, the first two votes will require at least two-thirds of the total number of members -- at least 400 votes -- and the third vote will call for at least 301 votes. If the third vote cannot hold a majority, the fourth vote will be held for the two candidates who won the most votes, and the most eligible candidate in the fourth vote will be the President. I propose how the secret vote will be conducted: from the first-ranked member of the Commission on my right, Adana, to Istanbul, from the second-placed member, Izmir, to Zonguldak, will give the MPs whose name was read with a sealed ballot and will mark the names of the MPs from the notebook. The MP who will use the vote will enter the voting booth after receiving the sealed ballot and the envelope, whichever candidates on the ballot will vote for, mark the square in front of the candidate's name with a cross sign and place the ballot in the envelope in the cabin, and then throw it in the ballots placed in front of the Presidential Court stand. I'd like to ask the lawmakers to show the necessary sensitivity at the point of the vote's secrecy. I would like to point out what the members of the vote will be paying attention to: when voting, the square will be marked in front of only one of the candidates on the ballot. The ballots marked by multiple candidates will be invalid. Same color pens are placed in the cabins. The members will use these pens. The vote will be invalid if there are any signs, signatures or doodles on the ballot, except for the square in front of the candidates' names. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Let the sealed ballots and envelopes be delivered to the members of the clerks. Congressmans, I'm detecting a five-man commission with a name drawn up for the count and transcript of the vote. The members of the draft commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Erdogan Earth?
tbmm-2019-02-24sit01spe0002par0115	He's an alibi, sir.
tbmm-2019-02-24sit01spe0001par0116	Mr. Erdogan is gone. Kemal Nightingale, Antalya? Here. Recep Sugar, Karaman? Here. Ismail Faruk Aksu, Istanbul? Here. Tuma Çelik, Mardin? Here. Hülya Nargis, Kayseri? Here. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Congressmans, are there any members who aren't using the vote? Nobody's voting. The vote is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. Rereading the names of the members of the Task Commission: Kemal Bulbül, Antalya; Recep Şeker, Karaman; İsmail Faruk Aksu, İstanbul; Tuma Çelik, Mardin; Hülya Nergis, Kayseri. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first round of voting for the election of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of the 27th Legislature was held (528), and the distribution of the votes was shown below. It's presented with respect. Kemal Bulbül Recep Şeker İsmail Faruk Aksu Gaziantep MP Imam Hüseyin Fiz 35 votes İstanbul MP Engin Altay 120 votes İzmir MP Serbil Kemalbay Pekbaşü 45 votes Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop 322 votes Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, the first vote for the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey did not include a majority of two-thirds of the vote envisioned in the Constitution. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-02-24sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 57th Unity. We continue the election of the chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Members of parliament, we are now starting the second vote in the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this vote, the total number of members will be two-thirds, or at least 400 votes. Congressmans, I have first voted on the rules regarding the vote and the necessary explanations for the secrecy of the vote, and I believe the necessary sensitivity will be shown. Now, I'm going to draw up a name for the count and transcript of the vote and identify a five-man commission. The members of the draft commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Asuman Erdogan, Ankara? No. Salih Cora, Tripoli? No. Zahra Taşkesenlioğlu, Erzurum? Here. Hüseyin Yıldız, Aydın?
tbmm-2019-02-24sit02spe0003par0010	He's here, sir, he's on duty, he's here.
tbmm-2019-02-24sit02spe0001par0011	Here?
tbmm-2019-02-24sit02spe0003par0012	Here, sir, he serves.
tbmm-2019-02-24sit02spe0001par0013	Okay, fine. Fuat Koktaş, Samsun? Here. Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu, Bigeli? Here. Gürsel Tekin, Istanbul?
tbmm-2019-02-24sit02spe0004par0017	Here, sir, he serves.
tbmm-2019-02-24sit02spe0001par0018	Here. Please give envelopes and sealed ballots to the clerk members for the second vote. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game, dear friends? Nobody's voting. The vote is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. Rereading the names of the members of the Task Commission: Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu, Erzurum; Hüseyin Yıldız, Aydın; Fuat Koktaş, Samsun; Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu, Kobeeli; Gürsel Tekin, İstanbul. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 544 members participated in the second round of voting for Turkey's Grand National Assembly of the 27th Legislature, and the distribution of the votes was shown below. It's presented with respect. Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu Hüseyin Yıldız Fuat Koktaş Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu Gürsel Tekin Gaziantep MP Imam Hüseyin Fiz : 35 votes İstanbul MP Engin Altay : 126 votes İzmir MP Serbil Kemalbay Pekbağü : 46 votes Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop : 333 votes According to this result, two-thirds of the vote envisioned by the Constitution have not been found in the second vote of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's election. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-02-24sit03spe0001par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 57th Unity. We continue the election of President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, we will now begin the third vote in the election of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If the third vote cannot be met with a majority, it will hold the fourth vote for the two most-voted candidates, and the most-voting candidate in the 4th vote will be the President. Congressmans, I've made the rules regarding the vote and the necessary explanations for the secrecy of the vote in the first vote, and I believe the necessary sensitivity will be shown. Now, I'm going to draw a name for the count and transcript of the vote, and I'm going to identify a five-man commission. The members of the draft commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Semiha Sokci, Sivas? Here. Haci Bayram Türkoğlu, Hatay? Here. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, Ankara? No. Ceyda Cetin Eren, Kütahya? No. Alek Dedegil, Istanbul? Here. Mustafa Hilmi Dülger, Kilis? No. Sevin Coshkun, is it? Here. Sevda Erdan Kılıç, İzmir?
tbmm-2019-02-24sit03spe0005par0014	Here, sir, here.
tbmm-2019-02-24sit03spe0001par0015	Please submit envelopes and sealed ballots to the clerk members for the third vote. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Congressmans, are there any members who aren't using the vote? No. The vote is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Third round of the Commission: Semiha Ekinci, Sivas; Haci Bajram Türkoğlu, Hatay; Alek Dedegil, İstanbul; Şevin Coshkun, Mush; Sevda Erdan Kılıç, İzmir. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 542 members have participated in the third round of voting for Turkey's Grand National Assembly of the 27th Legislature, and the distribution of the votes has been shown below. It's presented with respect. Semiha Ekci Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Alek Dedegil Sevin Coşkun Sevda Erdan Kılıç Gaziantep MP Imam Hüseyin Fiz : 33 votes İstanbul MP Engin Altay : 124 votes İzmir MP Serbil Kemalbay Pekbağü : 46 votes Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop : 336 votes Total: 542 votes [[AK PARTY standing by, clapping at MHP rows]] Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop has provided the estimated majority of the Constitutional Assembly in the third vote and has been elected President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by 336 votes, congratulating themselves and congratulating themselves. [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] Mr. President would like a word of thanks. Here you go, Mr. Sentop.
tbmm-2019-02-24sit03spe0006par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first and foremost, I am grateful and grateful for the confidence and gratitude you've shown about me by choosing the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the head of international political institutions in the history of the world. It's a great honor for me. It is our beloved nation's faith that has been cast in the votes of your high council today. I see this as an opportunity, a basis, to serve on the nation's path, all of us. I know I'm responsible for this nation's trust, and you all know it's a lot to take in. The continuation of your assistance and support will be my greatest help in fulfilling this heavy responsibility. May His Holiness not disgrace me to you and to our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, there is no doubt that under the roof of this great House, we have many dear friends to do this job, but you know, there is a certain mechanism for these election processes, in those processes, that is the will that ultimately survives in the House. I would also like to thank all of our friends, all of our friends, and, of course, your entire delegation, who are running for office. In many countries in the history of the world, the fundamental political institutions have emerged as a result of some major events. Most of the time, governments were formed, and then they formed their fundamental political institutions. The same is true of the world's parliaments. After wars, revolutions, riots, conflict of different communities, co-operation, reconciliation, parliaments were established. Governments and governments were formed first, so to speak, then parliaments. The fate of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey is different. First our House was formed, then political power, government and state were restored. In this regard, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not only a founding assembly in the technical sense of constitutional law, it is also a founding assembly that rebuilds law, state, politics. This is the most important quality that separates our Supreme Assembly from other parliaments around the world. This Parliament is also the Veteran Assembly. The only Parliament that carries the title of veteran is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which we are proud to be under its roof. The MPs of the First Assembly, which we remember with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude, have not only worked as a legislature, but have also led and conducted our epic struggle. The members of the exceptional Assembly, which carried on their activities between the fighting and the sound of cannons, have shown the best examples of duty under all conditions, faith, determination, determination, and will. Years later, in the face of the treacherous coup and occupation attempt on July 15, 2016, the great Parliament has shown its merit for the second time as a veteran. When coupters targeted the nation, they attacked the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which literally represents the nation, and the presidential office elected by the votes of our nation. Here, together, our MPs have made a common stand against the coup, and they have held up the style that suits the Veteran Parliament. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy upon our brothers and sisters, who have been martyred in this vile attack toward the national will and our own country. I offer my deepest respect and gratitude to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who led our nation in the defeat of this treacherous attack, who put Turkey's independence, national support, and its aim to grow by staying on the horizon ahead of all of us. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] From beginning to present, in all difficult times, the hope of our nation has always been this great House. And today, this Parliament, the establishment of the will of our beloved nation, is the hope of an institution in the most difficult times, the guarantee of our state and politics, the heart of democracy. Mr. President, our most important task is to be worthy of this great House, which has been shaped with glory, honor, heroism, and patriotism, to protect the reputation of our Parliament as our eyes, to avoid anything that will bring this dignity to our very eyes. As lawmakers, it should be our duty to make this sacred place the center of common sense, nation property, and solutions, civil speech and discussion. None of us should forget that the time we're wasting on each other is our most important loss. While you carry out your duties, I will carry out my duties in the sense of justice and neutrality, as it is in the honor of representing all of you, our Parliament, and in every phase of our hard work, the belief that mutual understanding is kept alive. As I put an end to my words, I salute all of our elected Speakers of Parliament from April 23, 1920 to today, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. From the beginning to today, I thank all of our politicians, who have served as members of the High Assembly, to all those who have died, to God's mercy, and to all those who are alive, and to health, and to God's blessing. May God help our people. I salute your high council and yours in person, our beloved nation, who owns the kingdom unconditionally and unconditionally. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-02-24sit03spe0007par0065	[[Applause]] Congressmans, the issues on our agenda are complete. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (March 27, 2019) at 2:00 p.m. to discuss audit issues and legal proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
