tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2018 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the fourth round today. In the fourth round, I read public administrations with budgets and precise accounts: The Ministry of Economics, Ministry of Economics, Association of Competition, Hellal Accreditation, Ministry of Industry and Technology, Chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration, Chairman of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration, Chairman of the Council of Konya Ovasi, Chairman of the Eastern Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, Development Administration of Small and Middle-Sized Development Administration, Institute of Turkish Standards and Standards, Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation, Turkish Academy of Sciences and Technological Research, Turkish Academy of Sciences, Turkish Academy of Sciences and Technology. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, the talks on the tour will be promised to the political party groups and to conduct their opinions in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter. These times can be used by more than one speaker and will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question and answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the fourth round, I run the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Malatya MP Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu, Eskişehir MP Metin Nurullah Sazak, Sivas MP Ahmet Özyürek, İstanbul MP İzzet Ulvi Yölter, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Özyavuz, Konya MP Esin Kara, Army MP Cemal Enginyurt. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP Erol Kadırcıoğlu, İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya, Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran, Şanlıurfa MP Ayşe Bayurfa MP Nusrettin Masın, İzmir MP Murat Çepni, İstanbul MP Dilşat Canbaz Kaya. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: İstanbul MP Emine Gülizar Emecan, Adana MP Orhan Sümer, Hatay MP Ismet Tokdemir, İzmir MP Mahir Polat, Kopeeli MP Tahsin Tarhan, Tripoli MP Ahmet Kaya, Şanlıurfa MP Aziz Aydınlık, Adıyaman MP Abdurrahman Tutdere, Karaman MP İsmail Atak, Samsun MP Kemal Zeybek, İzmir MP Sevda Erdan Kılıç, Kayseri MP Çetin Arik, İzmir MP Ednan Arslan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Manisa MP Semra Kaplan Kıvırcık, Denizli MP Nilgün Ök, İstanbul MP Hulusi Şenturk, Gaziantep MP Abdullah Nejat Koker, Diyarbakır MP Oya Eronat, Van MP Abdulahat Arvas, Konya MP Selman Özboyıcı, Tripoli MP Adnan Günnar, Mersin MP Hacı Özkan, MP Metin Gündoğdu, Kırşehir MP Mustafa Özrli, İstanbul MP Mustafa Özrli, İstanbul MP Iffet Polat, Gaziant Polat, Gaziantep MP Deryak, Ankara MP Der Bakbak, Ankara MP Serek. On behalf of the group: Samsun MP Bedri Yaşar, Isparta MP Aylin Gütü, Ankara MP Koray Aydın, Gaziantep MP Imam Hüseyin Filiz, İstanbul MP İşktin Nuhoğlu, Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş. On behalf of individuals: Amasian MP Mustafa Levent Karahocagil and against Yozgat MP İbrahim Ethem Sedef. In the name of executive: Trade Minister Rusar Pekcan, Minister of Industry and Technology Mustafa Varank. Now, the first word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to Malatya MP Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Fendoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0002par0069	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group on the budget of 2020 of the Trade Ministry, the Competition Foundation and the Hellal Accreditation Agency. Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs and the great Turkish nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens with my deepest feelings. From 1071 to 2019, we remember all of our martyrs who had been martyrs to make Anatolia to their home; the founder and commander-in-chief of the Turkish state, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our way since 1071, our promise, and the political voice of our ideas and Turkish nationalists in 1969, the founder of the Ülku Januarys, Basbug Alparslan Türkesh. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Today I'm going to give you some information about the Competitiveness Association and the Hellal Accreditation Agency, founded on July 15, 2018. The basic principle based on the market economy is the assumption that economic relations are competitive. Economicly, competition is a competition in which sellers in a market take on more customers to increase their sales of goods and services, and thus their profits. The Competitiveness Agency was established to observe the implementation of this law and to carry out its duties, provided that the markets of goods and services are free and healthy in a competitive environment. In this framework, the institution's main task is to use the powers vested in it by law to prevent a competitive process in the markets of goods and services from being threatened. The efficient distribution of resources through the protection of the competitive process, increasing social prosperity, is the basis of the Competition Foundation's mission. What's a hal-acreditation? In other words, those who operate in the field of assessment of halal fitness mean that they can be evaluated according to national and international-accepted standards, ratification of competencies, regularly audited, and monitored at regular intervals. As the institution is new, the question is, will the Hellal Accreditation Institution decide what is lawful and what is forbidden? Of course not. This institution is not a fetal office, and it is not part of the Ministry of Religious Affairs; it is an institution founded directly in the name of our Ministry of Commerce, and it does not organise the legal document itself. By giving them the necessary permissions, they claim to establish a high awareness of consumers with the world's recognition and credibility. Another question comes to mind about this institution: is it forbidden to use products or services that do not have legal documents? (Helal has meaning that, according to the Islamic tradition, it is not forbidden, it is allowed, and it is in accordance with the rules.) This definition also includes the compliance of food and other products with the criteria for health and hygiene. Documentation by Hellal documentation agencies also includes the requirements for internationally accepted food safety, hygiene and health-related standards. But let no one take the meaning out of this: Let him not conclude that the product without good deeds will be unlawful. The importance of this legal food and service document is to trust the consumer and to facilitate market access in competition, quality and foreign trade. This is the case: spending in 2018 year-on-year for goods and services such as food, textiles, pharmaceutical products, cosmetics, and tourism and travel has increased by 2.2 trillion dollars per year, given the legal documentation of 1.8 billion Muslim populations around the world. Islamic finance grew by 6.2 per cent, reaching the volume of 4.5 trillion US dollars. The right argues that having a legal document must reach a capacity to respond to the needs of the Muslim world. It is necessary to have a common approach to the legal standards and documentation of the fragmented structure in this area and to ensure harmonisation of the practice. If this harmonisation is performed, healing in trade will not be a technical obstacle, but also a positive contribution to the quality image of products and services. In this way, the foreign trade of helal documented products is expected to increase not only between Muslim countries, but also towards third countries. In this context, the Helal Acreditation Agency has been established as the only institution in Turkey to have the authority to serve as the only institution in the country to operate in the field of helal Akreditation, or as the only institution to represent our country in international platforms, and to take the lead in the work being carried out. Finally, I'm going to talk a little off the agenda. Of course, we can't accept the so-called Armenian genocide bill that the United States Senate accepted yesterday, and we don't accept it, and it doesn't mean anything to us. Conspiracy and schemers who try to sell poison as poison are drawn to the desire to humiliate the Turkish nation, to undermine the dignity of our country. Just as Turkey has not complained about it abroad, the mountains in which they trust have been erosiond. They're exhausted, exhausted, and in the process of disintegrating. Turkey will not lose its worth by the accusations of clowns, even though the fog cloud, caused by those who can't tell the difference between the plain and the cliff, is frozen over our country. History, geniuses and heroes, as well as scoundrels and charlatans, are about to find meaning and compensation, as was the result of yesterday's decision in America. The treason and exemplary indecency of those competing with gravity to bring down Turkey is taking place before all of us. The impostors who hid the dishwater in a crystal vase attempted to threaten Turkey from the open. However, four parties gathered in this Veteran Assembly immediately, confirming the Libyan and the Eastern Mediterranean Covenant Covenant, and still disrupting their game as it had in the past. The great Turkish nation and the Nationalist Movement Party will never give up on the mud of the degenerates, their stand, their historical reputation. It will not cause any trouble or corruption. May God give Mr. State Gardenli, the leader of the movement, the wise leader and leader of the movement, who has led us in this direction and who has led us in this direction and who has guided us through years of experience, historical savings, predictions and strategy, and who has always been right to speak of Turkey. We descend from Mount God / Spirit, which took the determination from Orhun's source to fight the separatist and separatist terrorist organizations, and we lured our souls down from the mountain of God / from the source of Orhun (the source of this source) and the heart of those who drink from this source becomes brass /the death of those who slaughter Turk/Turkishah will be terrible. (It is said to be the death of those who walk with the Kürşad march, our Special Forces of the MIT, the Police Special Operations, and all the lovers of Turkey. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I salute our Veteran Assembly and our fellow citizens who follow us. May our 2020 budget be a blessing. Blessed be our Friday, blessed be God, and blessed be your wealth. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0003par0087	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a point.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0004par0088	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0003par0091	Mr. President, the orator just gave me some information about the Hellal Accreditation Agency. While I'm here, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question regarding the Hellal Accreditation Agency.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0005par0092	Are we asking questions?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0003par0093	Minister, I'd like to ask you a question about the Hellal Accreditation Agency. In July 2018, a decree was issued on its operation, and the Hellal Accreditation Agency kicked in, and its budget in a year and a half was $15,619,000, except for the Board of Management, which was established to increase exports. Are there any firms that have ever received documents from the Hellal Accreditation Agency? Our number appears to be zero, and we want to know if it's wrong. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0006par0145	Now, Eskişehir MP Metin Nurullah Sazak, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0007par0147	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to assess the budgets of the Trade Ministry, the Competition Foundation and the Hellal Accreditation Agency. I salute your high council. We have left about 18 months behind in the presidential government system, which we support with our firm stance as the National Movement Party. As the National Movement Party, we fully support all institutions and organizations and the Presidential government system, as well as all useful developments in favour of the Turkish state and the Necip Turkish nation. During the July 15th coup attempt, our country was forced not only to fight terrorism and protect border security against seven heifers, but also to fight the biggest economic attacks we have seen in the history of the Republic. There has been an artificial increase and fluctuation in exchange rates due to written statements from outside and cyber-attacks used as a public threat. The negativity has affected interest, inflation and growth rates. In 2019, when we were heavily affected by the recession in the world's economy, in this critical period of our country, it is promising to see our economy in its budget reports that it is in a sound recovery. The largest pencil in the Ministry of Commerce's budget is state support in exports, and it's a positive development in foreign trade when EXIMBANK finances $20 of each $100 export. In this sense, according to Trade Ministry data, the narrowing of scissors between imports and exports has contributed about $29 billion to our external trade balance. I would like to say that we, as the National Party of Action Group, support the budget offered by the Ministry of Commerce, with the wish that this result would be positively reflected to the merchants, the blue and white-collar workers. It is a fact that the 21st century we are in has led world politics through perception management and trade wars. A hundred years ago, we came from a world dominated by governments, a system of multinational corporations. It's a pattern that changes the perception management and traditional family structure, cultural pleasure and consumption habits, in line with the production and plans of global companies, and is increasingly trying to disrupt state integrity. Again, it changes our country's economy and social chemistry with the power of corrupting global will, cartel media. The country is corrupting social integrity by provocation of ethnic identity within its borders, while behind the scenes, it is building a new world order by raising consumer-oriented, global, unidentified, free slaves. In addition to the impositions of this global tyrannical will, many concepts and facts accepted by society as a result of the technological digital advances of this century have changed, 85 percent of the world's trade has shifted to digital media. Let me remind you once again that in the changing trade order, the world has entered a period of industry 4.0, artificial intelligence and digital currency. In this context, positive studies should be closely monitored in the passenger imaging system used by the Ministry of Commerce to detect illegal objects hidden on passengers without physical interference, the Research Network Project, which is based on artificial intelligence technology to be developed in partnership with TUBITAK, and the MILDAR Project, which has been launched jointly with our Defence Industry presidency. Apart from the projects in which we are proud, the Trade Ministry has also been the first public member of Blockchain Turkey's organisation as part of bloc chain technology, which includes the infrastructure of digital currency by adapting to the regulations required by the age. The development of technology, the easy accession of information, has led communities to seek innovative, valid, useful public and private sector policies. This is an important issue that requires total struggle and mobilisation -- with a local and national memory, understanding the socioeconomic problems of society and the strategic importance of our geography, creating our own methods in line with our own references. In this sense, today, when the world is abandoned to its irregular economic system, the public and private sector's knowledge must be shared. In order for markets to function healthy, to develop, the moral competition rules should be invested in high-income value products, where growth and economic goals need to be achieved, with common intelligence and vision. As it is known, all businesses, including those in Eskişehir, which I represent, are affected by changes in the world and in our country, in a negative way in terms of financial structure and financing access. A system that eliminates this negativity, prevents dry fluctuations, needs to be created with investors, producers and banks immediately. It should be directed by international competition discipline, as well as funding for companies that produce domestic and national production, want to brand, do RD and innovate, invest in patents and add value to high products. In addition, in order to be effective in international trade, all of our diplomats in foreign missions should be in dialogue with the country's economic organisations, like trade experts. With action from here, trade agreements in effect with the European Union must be updated immediately. I also think that engineers, whose specialty is import and export, will increase our share of the world's trade by making the arrangements, fast decisions, and the right investments that are required today. On the other hand, professional foreign trade experts who make strategic decisions should also be in the field as a result of the studies of trade and industrial rooms with universities. It is clear that economic growth and social well-being -- in short, being a quarterback in global competition -- will be possible with innovation, which will bring stability to growth. In addition to global and structural inequality, investments in the same line have stopped economic progress. It is a promising development for the Competitiveness Agency to take disciplinary and decisive action within the Strategic Plan 2019-2023. The Competitiveness Agency, which has served in our country for over 20 years, should examine companies that have been privatised by the public, be careful not to take advantage of other companies that already exist in the same sector, and carefully investigate competitive violations and monopoly that victimise consumers. The Competitive Association should use its knowledge savings more effectively and increase the number of qualified personnel employed to reach the level of negotiations in developed countries. In order to prevent the tradesman and our industrialist from being victims, we must protect them from any harm, make necessary attempts in the interests of international institutions and organizations, and use the right to retaliate if necessary. Congressmans, the other thing I'd like to point out is that even though there were economicly promising developments at a time when Turkey's voice was being cut down, we are unfortunately too far behind in finding markets in the helal economy of 1.8 billion Muslim populations, which is over $4 trillion in size. Not long ago, in this market, where we ruled a century ago, England and France are in a cartelized position. The global helal economy market should target a 5 per cent market share in the first place and gradually increase the target. Trade centres in the capitals of all Islamic countries should be established, where artificial intelligence operates and technical experts are employed, and the current companies in our country should be supported, and the public should invest themselves when the private sector is inadequate. In this scope, the Hellal Accreditation Agency, founded in November 2017, with a fundamental international organisation to promote the certificates of the authors of the legal document, has just completed its organisation, and by October 16th, it has now become able to certify the certificates. As part of a Belt A Road Project, called the New Silk Road, which will give a new direction for railway transport in the changing world, a freight train carrying equivalent electronic products to 42 trucks from Beijing to London has left China last month and moved to Europe using Marmaray. It is our advantage to have this project passed through our land and our vast human capital, which offers our country trade profits and new business units, which are considered an age for the transport of the railroad. This advantage must be used well, and my constituency, which has a rail system and high-tech experience, must be made to become a central base in the new Silk Road. In this minival, I remind you once again that TILOMSASAS is ready to do it in a national and domestic manner, with both technological infrastructure and qualified staff. Honourable MPs, I would also like to remind you that our week is Tutum, Investments and Turkish Property Week. It is clear that the world cannot ignore our country's geopolitical position and our young population. In this sense, I would like to stress and remind you that our children can't be a world without Turkish production and consumption in the presence of human rights, as free individuals who observe human rights and worship rights, the world's peace and justice. Dear lawmakers, as you know, I would like to express to you that the United States of America accepts the so-called Armenian genocide bill in the Senate by a political decision that violates the truth, history, truth, and it means nothing to us. Human rights apply not only to the capital and its ideals, but also to the millions of Indian Americans who died in the African slave trade, Hiroshima, Korea, Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq. The sensitivity of our relatives in East Turkistan to the persecutions they face makes sense to us, and it brings to our mind the killings the killer had made along with the police. It is known that they are not in the court, in the heart to question the morality, justice, and mercy of the Turk. Being strong doesn't make it right. Whatever its nature, this rootless tree is doomed. We have roots and we have roots.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0008par0169	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0007par0170	We may have shed leaves, but when the season comes, we know best how to open them and how to cast a shadow on the underdog. In a conjonk, where support for the Bosnian massacre is awarded the Nobel Prize, do not let the imperialists who root out world civilisations give us a human rights lesson. I hereby wish the Trade Ministry's 2020 budget would be a blessing to the Turkish nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0009par0174	In turn, it belongs to Sivas MP Ahmet Özyürek. Here you go, Mr. Özyürek.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0010par0177	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on the budgets of the esteemed MPs, the Central Management Budget of 2020, the Central Management Act of 2018, and the Trade Ministry, the Competition Foundation and the Hell Accreditation Foundation. I hereby salute the General Assembly. As it is known, with the transition of the presidency to the government system, the Trade Ministry has brought together foreign trade, customs and internal trade administrations under the same roof with the unification of two different ministries. The safety and quality of trade is the primary element of customs and trade policies. For our country, it is a pleasure that the Ministry is continuing its work without ignoring this element. It is always important to move the resources of small businesses, trades, artists and cooperatives one step at a time as we develop the business environment in our country with a sense of trust, and our foreign trade is constantly contributing to the growth of our country. According to the presidential data, the presence of over 1 million tradesmen and artists now shows a section of the country's economy that can lead to progress. Without disregarding the value of our trade in national trade, the professional education system must be developed and given confidence in our trade by strategising with a sense of decency. It will be a step towards increasing the efficiency of our tradesman. Because for us, supporting the activities of our tradesmen and artists is also supporting the locals. In this field, action plans must be developed to boost their employment in order to ensure and protect social prosperity, to boost the imbalances in income distribution, and to bring new entrepreneurs into the economy. Our Ministry of Commerce's work on this issue is promising. However, with the necessity of expressing our tradesman's demands, the SGK premium should be reduced and the SGK bonus should be met with disparity between the number of days and pensions. The other thing is that trade is easy and sustainable quickly is essential for our country. In today's globalized and digitized world, the Ministry of Commerce has developed that trade can be done through the electronic environment, and its infrastructure is being created for more, and our country will move its trade further. The presence of our country's industrial infrastructure and human capital has placed our country in an important position in foreign trade. To avoid destruction within the global economy, it must follow the needs of the age and be careful about the sustainability of exports. We care about providing state support in exports, and we see the work being done to ensure the exporter's competency in the foreign market. The Ministry of Commerce envisions 3 billion 754 million support for our exporters this year. It is important for the exporter to be supported in entering the market for international appearance, to obtain a quality certificate or to register its brand abroad. Of course, there will also be the development of international competitiveness. Moreover, the phenomenon of competition exists not only in the international economic competition, but also in its economic practice. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have adopted the system of free market economies in many countries today, including Turkey. One of the basic principles of this system is that economic relations focus on free competition. However, it is unlikely that even in this system markets will be left entirely by themselves, given the risk of initiatives going to competitive labor units or using their economic powers to limit competition rather than to increase their economic interests. Because the actions of these initiatives will prevent the expected benefits from the free market economy system. Here, just in order to eliminate this risk and ensure that the market works in a healthy manner, a growing number of countries around the world support the economic system with a competitive law and establish a competitive authority to enforce it. The main task of the Competition Foundation is to ensure that the markets operate competitively by preventing cartelization and monopoly and thus increase consumer well-being. The important issue here is that the cartels that undermine the economy must be judged and punished by separateing competition from other actions that limit competition in competition law. According to the agency's activities in 2019, a total of 300 final decisions have been made. 61 per cent of these decisions appear to be related to merger, takeover and privatisation, 19 per cent to competitive violations, and 10 per cent to humane detection and exemption applications. In the same period, 29 investigations have been launched, 11 investigations have been completed in different sectors, seven of these investigations have been imposed on administrative fines. In addition to regulatory and auditing activities, the institution's competition advocate activities are of great importance, which has been able to promote competitive law from companies operating in the market to consumers, public institutions to students, to a large number of people, and to a large extent, it has managed to establish competitive culture in our country. Competitive work has also been accepted and welcomed internationally. The Istanbul Competition Forum, which has taken place with the participation of 30 countries, and the demand for education from several countries' competitive institutions is a clear indicator of that. The European Commission's regular progress report on Turkey's progress in its accession process shows that it has passed the functionality and practice of the Competitive Institution. In order for the institution to adapt to the rapid economic change that digitalisation triggers today, to be prepared for the competitive problems that this change can produce, to continue its activities as it should be, and to maintain its achievements by multiplying them, it must provide quantitative and qualitative development. To this end, the Competitiveness Agency's budget for 2020 was offered as 115 million,750,000 Turkish liras. I find the offer in place, and I would like to say that we support the work needed to expand the institution's field of activity. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you about our Hellal Accreditation Foundation, which exists within our Ministry of Commerce. In short, this institution, which I'm going to refer to as the NGO, is presented as a consumer service and is in charge of legal documentation. However, the Muslim consumer's demand for a legal document is caught in the trade barrier between some countries due to the disorganized structure. In addition, the existence of different helal standards, logos, and audit practices in the Islamic world has raised doubts about legal documents. The global growth of the market for goods and services has shown us the need to overcome this barrier. Therefore, the HAK has emerged as the only authority in Turkey to oversee the legal fitness assessment agencies. The institution's country-based halal arrangement requires it to move forward in the line of institutional neutrality. To this end, he must build his presence free of commercial, financial, political, administrative influences. According to our Ministry of Commerce, the helal economy has reached a globally $4.5 trillion size. In this case, I would like to say that within the field of activity, the institution is in a position to represent our country internationally and regionally. I'd like to make a statement to Mr. Secretary here, Mr. Varank Beye. Mr. Minister, Mr. President Sivas had given us the good news of the special encouragement of our President Sivas. He said the decree would be signed. There's no news yet about Sivas. You know, Sivas is a really important city. We don't have the sea, we may not have the most important places in tourism, but let's not forget that Sivas is the capital of the Seljukian Empire, a city that played an important role in the establishment of the Ottoman Empire, and most importantly, signed the 4 September Sivas Congress. There are many tourist areas in Sivas. Today, there is a time when you really look at the Great Mosque with its madrasses, its mansions, its inn, its baths, its double Minareli, and its divorcée. That is why Sivas would really need work and food. The population of Sivas is growing, and we see that the migration is increasing year after year. We humbly ask you to do so, for the men of Sivas are awaiting this good news.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0011par0194	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0010par0195	Minister, please, sign this decree, and we will give this good news to the men of Sivas. And congratulations again to Sivasspor. Seriously, the team that currently plays the most local football players in the Super League is Sivasspor. (MHP and AK PARTY) And Sivasspor continues to lead with 30 points. So, hopefully, this week's Sunday game of Sivasspor-Fenerbahçe, I wish our Sivasspore and our nephews good luck here. (MHP and AK PARTY) Hopefully, it's all for Sivasspor, for our country. I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0012par0199	In turn, it belongs to Istanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Yölter. Here you go, Mr. Orender.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0013par0202	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute your honorable and trusted delegation. My best wishes to all the good people of our nation who follow us at the beginning of their screens. On behalf of our party group, the Ministry of Industry and Technology, Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency, Turkey's Academy of Sciences, the Chairman of the KOSGEB Administration, the Institute of Standards, the Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation and the Turkish Space Agency budgets. So far, there have been four major improvements, four major jumps, and a revolution in the field of production, one of which is agriculture, three of which is industry. Humanity lived in a hunter-gatherer state until the ten thousandth century before the Neolithic era, so the total consumer was in the middle. In 1712, an inventor named Thomas Newcomen built a steam engine. This steam engine had a very simple operating system, and along with this system, for example, a piston lift and a lever connected to the pump, this steam system was activated. This steam engine, built in 1712, was especially used in the weaving industry, as well as in the 1st Industrial Revolution. This improved steam engine has been widely used since the beginning of the 18th century. When you say textile and chemical industry, especially with the spread of the railway network, industrial production, industrial process, industrial revolution, has also begun to develop and spread. As a matter of fact, when we refer to the 1st Industrial Revolution, the Industrial Revolution, the 1.0 period, we see more mechanicalization and the transportation of products through the railway network to the consumption centers, and we understand that. In the industrial 2.0 period, electricity was also used as a result of the widespread production of machinery and railway networks. With electricity, the use of electricity has brought mankind to the stage of the 2nd Industrial Revolution. Since the 1970s, a new model has been developed, transferring information from sensors to businesses based on microprocessor-based programming systems, and the Third Industrial Revolution of humanity has passed on. This also opened the door to the least-needed period of human labor in the third Industrial Revolution or Industrial period 3.0. You can appreciate that the need for human labor has brought with it many social and economic problems. Congressmans, there is a period of twelve thousand years between the agricultural revolution and the Industrial Revolution. Between the 2nd Industrial Revolution and the 3rd Industrial Revolution, there are a hundred and twenty years, and between the 3rd and the 4th. During this process, production systems have been saved day by day, even by a alarming amount of human labor. The industrial period 4.0 points to a period in which mankind is now present. A period in the manufacturing industry, particularly at the highest level of computerization, where digitalization is at its highest level, is now in the face of humanity. We're dealing with a high-tech production model. Now that production has been linked to the series, production processes have become flexible, and as I've just stressed, labor has become, unfortunately, more saveable. Today, the 4th Industrial Revolution, which was brought up in Hanover, Germany, in 2011, is after the Industrial period 4.0. Robotic technology, artificial intelligence, now shapes the future of humanity, which will guide and accelerate the production process. Industrialization is constantly updating itself, in essence and fundamentally. The world is also on a dizzying course of change and transformation. The question we have to address is, where are we as a country in industrialization? Are we in social, economic, and political preparations for these stages? Above all, are we prepared for this with the power of an idea as we pass the industrialization stages? Industrialization, of course, not just the spinning wheel, the smoking chimney, the sweat, the labor, the work, the overtime or the capital, but the industrialization, the greater, the greater, the greater, the more important. The industry has its own logic, it has its own idea, it has its mind, it has its morals. The idea is that it's possible to make an example of how societies who lack moral processes actually fall back in the struggle for civilizations and nations. There's no way to industrialize by saying we're industrialized. You appreciate the human model of industrialization, the economic model, or rather the economic policy, that it's not very possible to achieve goals. Industrialism is a vision that is first built on an idea that plans the future. Turkey, unfortunately, missed different stages of industrialisation, faced many negative and painful costs brought by non-industrialisation. At the beginning of the last century, however, only three or five were being managed and maintained by an unusual industrial sector, the Turkish economy, even the empire economy of the period. Sadly, in the 17th and 18th centuries, these processes were ignored, neglected, or missed. We need to know that each industrial era has a human form, an economic structure, a social structure, and a political and human relationship structure, and we need to plan accordingly. If we can't plan for the future in both industry and politics, both in the economy and in the economy, then we're certainly in the way of other people's plans. I've also heard Mr. Varank's budget presentation, and I've read the brochure of the Ministry of Industry and Technology, and I'd like to share with them the satisfaction of seeing national and domestic industrial policies in preparation. Turkey is speeding up its preparations for 2023, and is taking important, serious, and offensive steps in the industry. We missed the developments in this industry, in terms of the human model the industry needs, if we can't meet the requirements, if we can't build a human mentality, an economic system that fits the spirit of industry, and if we can't compensate for the past, dealing industrial processes -- my dear friends, in the years 2023 and later, can't mention much, as we expected, as much as we expected. Like compound containers, a development in the industry will be able to influence and adapt to other areas of life over time; in a more accurate expression, it has to complain. Since the 18th century, the world's rate of change has exceeded normal boundaries, my dear friends. I. During Abdulhamit Khan, a bridge will be built over the Danube River. Before the bridge is built, our late padishah collects the hurrah, says: I will build an engineering school, build a bridge school, but I would like your opinion. Of course, the ulema complains, complains and reacts. He asks the Ulema a question, and he says, "If you know this question -- the question I'm asking -- I'm not going to open the university, I'm not going to open the school. If you don't know, I'll open the school. What is the sum of the interior angles of a triangle? One of the digits thinks, and one of the digits changes from triangle to triangle, Your Majesty answers. As a result, Istanbul Technical University was founded in 1773, my dear friends. While we were discussing these things, while we were in cross-pollemics about what the interior angles of the triangle were, unfortunately, it was experiencing the stages of Western industrial processes. It's obvious that today's stage -- let's not accept it, let's like it, let's not like it, let's not like it, let's not like it -- has been brought to light by labs that don't turn out. Therefore, I would like to congratulate Mr. Minister again on a significant stake in RD spending in the 2020 budget, and say that we are particularly pleased with the increased interest in R&D spending and the increasing interest in RD. Dear friends, labs that don't turn off their lights require labor, contribution, money, effort, morality. An idea can change the fate of a nation. A weapon can affect the fate of a nation, there's nothing to say. A Turkish proverb says: "A mih, a shoe; a horseshoe, a horse; a horse, a commander; a commander can save a nation." There's nothing to say about that. But we can never deny the power of the Reminder. We're also pleased with the national and local idea that dominates industrial policies, and that's what our President, Mr. State Garden Bey, has been defending for many years. If the 2023 leading country is to be reached by national and domestic stances; it will be reached by a unique, unique human model, economic model, political structure. I assure you, it is not possible for us to keep our stay in public any other way. We are not going to be cut off from our roots, from our own values, from our resources because we are going to become industrialized, otherwise it may be inevitable that we should suddenly become degenerates. Therefore, I would like to express once and for all that we are very happy to see a domestic and national stance between the government's 2020 goals. Of course, we don't think it's reasonable for any of us to open the door to corruption because we're going to industrialize, we can't accept it, we can't approve it because we're Turkish people, we're Turkey. Our dead thinkers, Turkish Islamic scholars, all have a positive, positive, positive, optimistic view of life in their common denominator, and it's fundamental. Of course, it's not for a Muslim to be pessimistic, it's not for a Muslim to be pessimistic. In Karl Popper's words, life is solving problems, and that is the essence and basis. The most important quality of industrialization must be sought here. It is inevitable to see the fountains of life of troubled, polluted, evaporating societies and nations dry in time. The advantages of industrialization, of course, are a lot of them, but I also mentioned the disadvantages of my speech, one of which is the savings of labor. Unfortunately, the savings of labor can lead to enormous economic and social destruction. We, as Turkey, have to establish, by our own facts, a permanent, sustainable industry policy. John, who made the iPhone, is selling to Mehmet, and Mehmet is following developments in the iPhone daily. We all have children, we all have families; new developments are being followed today, but new books are not being followed, new ideas are not being followed. During the time of mankind's postttruth, a young man, who is 18 years old, thinks about the new model of the iPhone, forces his father, even gets a bank loan to get it, although the same effort is not made in education. We wish that an iPhone (i.e. an iPhone) would develop in digitalization on a computer, that Hassan and Mehmet would do it, and Ahmet would do it. The Turkish nation can afford it, my dear friends, because we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it. (MHP and AK PARTY) It wasn't said for nothing. A Turk is worth the world. That's what we believe, that the power we need in our veins is running through the noble blood. In the past, we have to take on new industrial processes, new stages, and even ahead of them. One of the main issues that we need to be careful about is that if we take social development far behind technological development by saying that we're going to achieve technological development -- I want to draw the gold thick and warn you -- the gap in the gap comes out as a moral problem; this is one of the most important findings of our late Erol Güngör Hodja. Social development is behind, technological development is in the future; depressions from this gap, for example, come out to us as violence, like a wave of unrest in society, like polarization, confrontation, conflict. We are a nation that has achieved material and spiritual development simultaneously throughout history. Imagine, on one hand, Baki, architect Sinan, on the other hand, the expeditions of Sultan Süleyman the Law, which is both ideas, art, thought, emotion, and we rise in military victories. That is our past and our past. Joseph Has Haddgu Bilig, the Court of Kashgar, Lügat-it-Turk, the Medani City of Farabi, Fazıla, his work, Ibni Rusd, Gazali, and all of them, we see the balanced development of Turkish Islamic thinking. Therefore, the essence of today's problems and, in essence, the distortions and gaps between social development and technological development must be taken into consideration. In this regard, Mr. President of State Gardens has stepped forward, thinking that humanity needs peace because of the unrest, and that this should be done with a project. We see humanity turning its head into space, we do research, we send shuttles into space, we build bases, but when mankind's head is in space, its foot is in terror, its foot is inequality, its foot is in injustice, its foot is unfortunately touching inhuman, its conscience. We have to overcome this contradiction, this recession. If we don't, the era of chaos, as Mr. President again stated, will update him, confirm him day by day, confirm him. In an interview with the Turkish daily, Mr. President of the State Garden, Mr. Türkgün, he used a sentence as follows: "Syber physical systems, such as objects and behaviors in the real world, can't be done while simulations are being done in the computer environment. With horizontal and vertical integration, there is uninterrupted communication and flow in technological infrastructure, but the same flow and communication cannot be achieved in global morality and justice...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0014par0218	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0013par0219	Thank you, Mr. President. The same thing can't be shown, it can't be applied, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done. Learning robots, artificial intelligences are being produced, they can't produce tolerance or respect. Today, data from Internet-based devices are said to have reached zettabyta -- so you know 1 zettabyte -- 1 billion terabytes. But as conscience and human responsibilities recede, they get nervous. Dear MPs, what conscience can say no to these findings? What mercy, a conscience, can find such thoughts to be exaggerated? Come on, you too. Can't you say that? Isn't our president right? The wealth of 26 people in the world equals the income of 3.8 billion people. How can there be peace from such a terrible and enormous inequality, injustice? People who eat too much, who earn too much, who live on one side from hunger, thirst, despair, lack of income, poverty...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0015par0224	Here, wrap it up...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0013par0225	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, if we rely on our history, on our nation, on ourselves, we will find these contradictions, on ourselves, the power to overcome this vortex of unrest, and we will succeed. The Turkish nation has the power, the strength, the savings, the experience. Of course, it is possible to move the bright days of the past to the stage of the future. That is the purpose of the Cumhur Alliance, and that is its morality, and that is what it seeks. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Despite many obstacles, many attacks and assassinations, Turkey's economy has been torn apart, balanced and disciplined. Again, I congratulate the government and the Minister. The improvements in our industry are eye-opening. We're at a point where we're now exporting products, 80% of which are industrial. This is a very serious development, and the industry's share of employment is at a very valuable point. In the GDP nine months of the year, the industry's share is 22.4 per cent. That's a huge percentage, my dear friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I know I'm running out of time. My dear friends, I wish you the best of the 2020 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0016par0234	Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Özyavuz Beyin. [[A round of applause at the MHP]] Here you go, Mr. Self-Subject.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0017par0237	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the GAP and the DAP presidency budget in the 4th round of Central Management Budget Law Proposal in 2020. I hereby salute my Şanlıurfa people, the great Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Mr. President, I'd like to strongly and hate to condemn all the terror organizations and supporters and those who are protecting our country and our nation. In this way, when we fight against the separatists, I ask God's mercy for those who are martyrs, and I give thanks to all our heroes who are veterans. The GAP Regional Development Administration was established on October 27, 1989 by the Council of Ministers' decision and by the Court of Law on the Institutions and duties of the Regional Development Administration, published in the Official Gazette (November 6, 1989). The Southeast Anatolia Project is the most comprehensive project in our republic's history, and is the most effective one of its regional development plans and programmes so far. The GAP integrated regional development approach is a huge project that has passed on to international literature with sustainable human development philosophy and has brand value. When the project is completed, it will provide employment for 4 million people and a significant profit for our country and region. As a majority of the Plains of Harran began to water under the GAP in 1995, it led to diversity, efficiency and revenue growth in agricultural product patterns. Mr. President, I'd like to address some of the issues that are on the agenda of my constituency, which are at the center of the GAP. After the coup attempt on July 15th, many of our citizens were proud to hang our glorious Turkish flag at home, at work, and at vehicle, to show that they were not at the side of the government, but at the side of the state. But over the years, flags have been worn out by rain, sun, and dust in the air, but they have not been replaced. In our various cities, especially in my constituency of selection, Şanliurfa, our flags hung on the entrance doors and minarets of mosques have been worn out and deformed because they cannot be changed at certain intervals. It hurts our national conscience to see our flag colored by the blood of the martyrs worn out in our mosques and on the balcony of houses. The situation must be rearranged with a statement published by the Ministry of Interior and the President of Religious Affairs. Mr. President, even though constructions in Şanliurfa have long been under way, the construction of the never-ending bus station and the construction of the Silkways-Süleymaniye intersection will help to provide instructions for the completion of the construction and the disbursement of the grants, Şanlıurfa city and interstate traffic. Because of the hardening of the weather and the beginning of the rain and again, the construction of roads and intersections on the two main arteries in Şanlıurfa, traffic has become an ordeal. There have been dozens of traffic accidents on the route since these constructions began. The failure of these constructions also undermines the public's trust in the government in Şanlıurfa. That's what our district lawmakers are all about. Therefore, the need for immediate completion of construction must be done immediately. Members of lawmakers, the use of the high-speed train project is crucial to students, small tradesmen, small-income citizens and agricultural workers. The fast train line must be extended over Gaziantep to Şanlıurfa. It is the will and desire of all our countrymen to remove the funds needed so that both today and now and the next 50 years can be established between the organised industrial district, Osmanbey Campus and Abide Crossroads and airport routes. Mr. President, even though I have repeatedly voiced from this bench, one of the biggest problems that I've received as a member of parliament with your vote again and again is that one of the problems that has become gangrene is electricity cuts and irregular currents. Electricity blackouts also cause devices to burn and break down in the homes. Electricity cuts are causing production to cease at workplaces and the loss of millions of dollars of our citizens. Electric companies have shown the cause of these cuts as the height of illegal use, but they have no efforts or investments to prevent illegal use. The electrical infrastructure of Şanlıurfa, one of the fastest growing cities, must be renovated and strengthened. The other issue is the bills that are too high. Invoices are crushing the citizen, and in no way are the objections of the citizen being examined by the institution and not given information to the citizen. Again, an important issue is: there are six or nine months of hiring by İSKUR as part of the Community Help Program. This practice has become the hope of thousands of unemployed citizens in our Şanlıurfa, as in other cities. However, the status of the citizens employed within this scope is not the workforcer, but the social rights are denied, even though they work in noble works. After six or nine months of work, their work is terminated, and they are unable to benefit from unemployment because of their lack of time. Giving away the social and financial rights of our fellow workers will prevent them from becoming victims of the position of the workman, rather than the director. Earlier, the construction of the 1,700-bed hospital, which had been founded three times on different dates, has remained uncertain. Our citizens are in a difficult position because of the closing of the old hospitals because of the city hospital. Due to the lack of doctors in our hospitals, the Şanlıurfans are still flocking to cities to receive services such as treatment and surgery. Closed hospitals must be re-opened as alternatives by strengthening personnel, equipment and tools. In our province, the inadequacy of closed gyms has left our young ones out of sport. Bad habits tend to relocate places. It is necessary for young people to have at least two 5,000 audience-capacity sports halls, such as concerts, congress, conferences, and sports, both in the Aqabe TOKI area and in the region between Opensu-Masuk. The fortune shop rents high, heavy taxes, BUG-KUR bonuses and so on, as well as the recession of markets, are going through a very difficult time. The Esnafa must be provided with three years of non-refundable loans so that it can be life-threatening water. Likewise, the high costs and the poor farmers who are in distress should also be given credit and their debt to banks must be postponed. Şanlıurfa Square in the center of Şanlıurfa.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0018par0252	Pack it up, Mr. Autonomous.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0017par0253	...the restoration of the Arasa Bath, and the destruction of the surrounding structures, the expansion of the road to 58 Squares, is crucial to the emergence of historical structures. Despite the fact that many times it has come to the attention, flights between our glory and other provinces have been inadequate. Adding the height of ticket prices to this, the journey to Urbana is unfortunately difficult. In particular, when our President announced the year we were in, the year Gobeklitepe was declared. Unfortunately, Urbana and Gobeklitepe didn't get the attention they deserved, not enough tourists came to our province. A tourist brings a thousand tourists. In view of the incident, flights and ticket prices must be arranged. Many of our young people are studying in Cyprus, but unfortunately there are no flights from Urbana to Cyprus. Direct flights from our Ministry of Transport to Cyprus are expected by my younger brothers and Şanlıurfa. Seasonal workers from Şanlıurfa, who go to the various provinces of our country as farm workers, live in a tent environment in the cities where they go. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll finish. Where these brothers go, the work must be done to create living spaces, to provide education and health benefits, to provide for their basic needs, such as electricity and water. I think it's necessary for our brothers and sisters to get their bread out of the stone. Mr. President, with these feelings and thoughts, he wishes the budget of 2020 would be a blessing to our country, to our nation, and I would like to bring up from here a beautiful poem by a glorious poet: I'm the humble Agha I/ my partner in troubles. Tell my friends I'm not dead.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0019par0262	Now, it's up to Iconian MP Esin Kara. Here you go, Mr. Kara.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0020par0265	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on behalf of the 2020 budget of the President of the Great Turkish nation's Konya Plain Project Regional Development Administration. I salute our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation. The total development of a country in a social and economic sense is called "restraint." The acceleration of this development is carried out through development agencies in our country, implementing regional activities. Development agencies are preparing action plans to speed up development of the region and co-ordinating between institutions in the running of projects. They also carry out the task of providing financial and technical support for the process to help carry out projects requested by institutions and organisations. As a result of action plans, it is intended to use natural and economic resources effectively and efficiently spread development to a balanced extent in our country, to properly assess local dynamics and opportunities and to minimize the difference in inter-state development. The concentration of economic activities in our country in the Marmara Region brings with it population and urbanisation issues. This must be distributed in accordance with regional dynamics and in support of development in the region. But in this way, the potential that exists in our country is possible to be fully used. To achieve the vision of Turkey, the Leader Country of 2023 should be our main goal to establish areas of prosperity, developed locally, competitiveness, and well-being. This development is only possible because of the well-read reading of the properties of the regions and the planning to meet their potential. The statement that private sector investments will be supported, economic and social infrastructure and development of human resources and other projects in action plans will continue to be carried out as part of the action plans for KOP, including Konya, Karaman, Aksaray, Niğde, Nevşehir, Yozgat, Kırkşehir and Kırkkale cities, and other projects in development policies, reducing the differences of development and improved development between regional competitiveness and growth. The KOP is also the first official irrigation project in our country. Half of our country's agricultural areas have 19.5 per cent. However, because water resources are limited, there is often no watery agriculture, and because of seasonal droughts, there is a recolte decline in growing products. Because of the unconscious use of underground waters in agricultural irrigation and insufficient rain, Salt Lake, Beyşehir Lake, Suğla Lake, Akşehir Lake, Meke Lake, Ereğli Akgöl, Yunak Akgöl, and the danger of the institution. The Blue Tunnel Project for the solution to this problem was to transfer the water of the Göksu River to the Plain of Conium. ==History==The construction of the 1960 tunnel was launched in 2009 and opened as of April 2012, and on 22 May 2015, water flowed from tunnel to plain for the first time. However, the water supply needed by agricultural irrigation is still not available in the region. Working by the DSI to bring water from external basins into the region is vital to the immediate completion of the work done by the DSI, the development of the region, the threat to the institution in the lakes and its economic strengthening. The economic strengthening KOP region will also provide a solution to the country's national agriculture problem. The production of domestic crops will produce the amount needed within the country, and more consumption will be imported. Mr. President, my constituency, Ionya, is one of the current metropolitan cities in Anatolia. It has very high production power in the industrial field associated with agricultural production and agricultural production. The detection of primary areas in development is the province, causing investments in our districts to shift to the surrounding provinces that are prioritized because of the advantage of taxes and other exemptions.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0021par0270	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0020par0271	This prevents the development of our boroughs and leads the city to immigration. It is important to establish priorities in development, not based on the province, but on borough-based practice. This would be more useful in the overall development of the region. Our leader, Mr. State Gardener, has stated that the best province for the establishment of the defence industry and our local automotive industry is Inconceived. The construction of the defence industry and the local automotive plant is of great importance to our province. I salute the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of their screens.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0021par0274	In turn, it belongs to Mr. Cemal Enginyurt. Here you go, Mr. Enginyurt.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0022par0277	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin, I strongly condemn the Armenian genocide bill from the United States Senate last night. They have no right to protest the state of the Republic of Turkey in Iraq, Syria, anywhere in the world, where violence exists. I curse it. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to discuss the budget for 2020 today. I really understand what a great job the budget is. Why is it a good job? At least I get to see the ministers I haven't seen in a year. God doesn't make us meet them, doesn't make us see them. We can't get past their chief of staff, we can't get through. So at least we get to say something once a year in the budget. I hope they'll consider it so they can answer the phones of all the MPs, and they'll instruct their chief of staff, and we'll get past their chief of staff. Their chief of staff is like a wall.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0023par0280	Your Berat friend.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0022par0281	I love Berat. There's nothing wrong with Berat Colonel. I would especially like to address our Minister of Industry. Our Üyye district is one of three major districts of the Army. I told you last year. It's our only county without organized industry. The Golden Army is in our county, it's not enough; the second one was condemned, the money wasn't paid. Fatsa's in our county, not enough; he's still working on the second one. We need a source of about 120 million, but so far, no resources have been sent. The organised industry, which will be established in Ünye, will save Üsiye and behind it, Akkuş, Çaybaş, Twin counties. The organised industry to be established in Fatsa district will save our six counties in Çamash, Çalpınar, Kabastas, Aybastı, Korgan, Kumru. The organised industry, which will be established in the district of Altınoriye, will save our districts of Güliye, Thursday, Kabaduz, Ulübey, Gürgentepe, Gölköy, Mesudiye, and will provide jobs for 20,000 people. We are not concerned whether the private sector will come or not. There's a businessman coming to the army, an investor coming, but unfortunately there's no room, there's not enough opportunity in organised industries, and there's no investment for that. Mr. Secretary, $120 million is not a lot of money. The army was given city status. He's an army amateur, and he's got a third team. In the league. $120 million was spent, it still needs 40 million to be finished, but if we spent 120 million on three organised industries, 20,000 people would be saved, the city's immigration problem would be solved, and the city's economic development would be ensured. So, on the basis of this budget, I have this opportunity, and I say again: with our reputation as a priority of our organised industry, with the restitution of 850 acres of military land being paid, it would be the greatest service you can do to the Army's people in Fatsa district to be named for the second organised industry.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0024par0287	We've solved the fame.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0022par0288	And why would I want that, Mr. Secretary? Look, God laughed in your face, you don't have vote, you don't have vote, you don't have vote, but everyone here has vote issues, you have voter issues. If these organized industries aren't done, we can't get into the city, we can't get people to vote. So why don't you just think about what's going on here, give them a little support, and they'll say we served the city. Let them text from Twitter, write from Facebook, so that the voters can thank them. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0025par0291	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan is now in charge. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0026par0294	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, we're discussing the budget of 2020, and we're going to discuss the budget of the two most unsuccessful ministries, according to their 2023-year bids.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0027par0296	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0028par0297	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0026par0298	In their 2023 bids, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health at certain points, 50, 60, 70 per cent have achieved their goals, but the two most unsuccessful ministries are now sitting here. Of course, for 18 months, ministers, I haven't given them all the responsibilities, but the two most unsuccessful ministries. Dear friends, think, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in 2011 that we would export $500 billion. Isn't that right? 500 billion dollars... we're still going to export 500 billion dollars in April this year. Finally, for years we've been saying, "Friend, you won't reach this goal, come set a new goal." Finally, our Minister of Commerce, Ruzar, said: "We will be able to export 223 billion dollars -- not 500 billion. Friends, you know, 10 percent surprised, I get it; 20 percent surprised, 30 percent surprised, I get it; you know, friends, less than half the target, Ms. Ruzar came along and showed up. There's been a huge failure. Well, is there any self-awareness about it? No. Is the President giving you any self-criticism? No. Dear friends, I am not criticizing Mr. Varank nor Mr. Minister Ruzar Hanım on this matter, but there are two people I'm criticizing: Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Mr. Minister of Interior Süleyman Soylu. Because, friends, look, for science, technology, industry and trade, freedom is the head of everything. If there's freedom, free minds, well-trained minds create technology, create science. If they create science and technology, friends, if they create high-tech technology, they produce high-tech products, our industrialists. After that, our Trade Minister buys and exports high-tech products all over the world; he doesn't use iPhones, just like our deputy does right now; he doesn't use iPhones, like our ministers do; he doesn't communicate with WhatsApp, he doesn't watch videos from YouTube, and not all of our ministers, except Mr. Varank, don't ride Mercedes. Mr. Varank is on Toyota, and he says: "I rode on Toyota, so that I could set an example for the ministers."
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0029par0302	Hybrid, hybrid...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0030par0303	Misinformation.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0026par0304	It's like Toyota's local and national. But he never set an example for any of our ministers, only he rides the Toyota, which is to set an example. All our ministers are unfortunately riding the Mercedes.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0031par0305	Watch the local car tomorrow at the beginning of the year...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0032par0306	You're so embarrassed.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0026par0307	Look, guys, let me give you the self-criticism. Our ministers won't give it to us, I know, they'll come here and tell us stories again about Alice in Wonderland. We'll grow up like this, we'll grow up like this... Look, we're halfway there. Why? Because, friends, look, freedoms are over in the land. I'm going to the U.S., I've been to Silicone Valley, see, brains that develop artificial intelligence, develop technology, friends of Turkish minds. Kayseri Ahmet, Izmirli Mustafa and Ayşe Silicone of Istanbul produce science in the Valley. We have thousands of engineers in billions of dollars worth of projects. Friends, you go to Harvard, hundreds of Turkish scientists produce technology, produce science, produce RD. We asked them: "Why are you here, why don't you produce science in your country?" Friend said: "Can I produce science in a country where Wikipedia is banned?" See if I can produce science in a country where Wikipedia is banned? Can I produce science? If this Parliament cannot provide the answer to this question, Mr. Ministers, neither science can be developed nor developed technology or trade develops. In that sense, we have a serious brain drain, my friends. And as long as we don't reverse this brain migration, there'll be no industry in this country, no science, no technology. Dear friends, look, a very important data was released the other day. Mr. Recep says we have 200 universities. 200. You know, my dear friends, 72 of these 200 universities have been appointed by Mr. Recep Tayyip. These 72 have not published a single broadcast in the international area, not one broadcast, and 72 of them have been president of our universities. I wonder if there's any science in those universities, if technology can be produced, if technology can be transferred to the industry, and if there's an iPhone out there, guys, is Samsung out of there? It's a dead end, guys. In this sense, if we are number 110 in the Rule of Law Index, we are ranked 111 in the Democracy Index, wait for science or technology. Mr. Varank, your Ministry has made a terrible mistake. What was the name of your ministry? The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, right? What letter do you think he dropped, what word did he drop?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0033par0310	Get the drones out, get the drones out, get the Altay tanks out of there, it'll all come out, don't worry. ANKA comes out...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0026par0311	He dropped the word "science." Here's the fact that he dropped the word science, but where there's no science, there's no industry and no technology, friends. Look, Mr. Trade Minister Ruzar Haným wants to make a Customs Union Development Agreement with the European Union, just like our past 5-6 ministers, you really want it, don't you, Minister? Of course you do. I'd like that, too. Look, I wanted to be an astronaut, when I was a kid, I couldn't. I wanted to go to space, that was my dream.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0034par0313	We'll send it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0035par0314	I think you are, Garo. You're flying.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0026par0315	For this to happen, technology is needed, science is required, a missile is required. You need science and technology. They said he wasn't in this country either.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0034par0316	We'll send it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0036par0317	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0026par0318	Look, there are criteria for making a European Union customs agreement, folks.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0037par0319	Do you know we've sent a satellite from TKSAT 2?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0026par0320	You hear that, remember, we have Copenhagen Criters, guys? It says that you will obey the Copenhagen Criteria for the European Union: the Custom Union Enlargement Agreement. You will abide by the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Without this, there's no Customs Union Enlargement Agreement. Our exports jump, but look, they can't jump, so...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0037par0321	It's already jumped, it's $180 billion.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0038par0322	Just a minute, Congressman. Now, I'm gonna make a promise to the guys who are making speeches here, so let's get them ready.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0039par0324	That'd be great, Mr. President. I'd appreciate it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0038par0325	Come on, don't be mean, guys.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0040par0326	That's why we have 8 million unemployed friends, 8 million unemployed. We can't make a Customs Enlargement Agreement with the European Union, we have 8 million unemployed, our people are committing suicide. Why? Because of the antidemocratic practices of Suleiman noble, because of the one-man regime of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Dear friends, look, do you know why you can't make a Customs Enlargement Agreement with the European Union? The imprisonment of the beloved Selahattin Demirtaş, the imprisonment of the beloved Figen Yükseldağ, the imprisonment of the beloved Osman Kavala, the imprisonment of the beloved Ahmet Altan. For all these reasons, we've destroyed the Copenhagen Critters, and we can't do the Customs Union Enlargement Agreement, 8 million of our citizens are unemployed. Mr. Varank, local car, national car." He says, he's been saying that for two years. The previous ministers said, they had gone, friends, they had bought a prototype, a tile, they had given 100 million euros or something, it was garbage. Now, we say, "Friend, where's this local car, where's this national car?" He's gone. Is there a story? No. Look, the world's going to 5.0, guys, we've passed 4.0, we've lost 3.0, we've missed the train at 4.0, the technology's going to 5.0. Now the autonomous car, the driver's car, will be sold. If you can put a battery in and drive a car a thousand miles, it'll be sold, but where there's no science, where there's no technology, you can't take a car with a battery, you can't do the autonomic car here, other people can do it, you can take it, you can ride your Mercedes, our people live in poverty. Look, do you guys know how much Turkey has devoted to all research development? They say it's 1 percent of the Gayrisafi domestic. It's 7-8 billion dollars. Only the Volkswagen, look, a company spends $16 billion, only the Volkswagen company. So we, the whole country, can't separate half the RD from one company, to develop research. Do you really think you can make a domestic and national car around the world here, Mr. Varank? Is that possible, friends?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0041par0329	It's possible.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0040par0330	It's not. Why? All resources are divided into palaces, arms and allies, resources are not reserved for research. Mr. Secretary, dear friends, last but not least, the tradesman is a mess. I don't know where you shop, but wherever I go, the shopkeeper says we're miserable. Mr. Secretary, do you know why?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0042par0332	They're tricking you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0040par0333	Look, Mr. Secretary, let's go to the most remote neighborhood together, go to a slum in Ankara, you know what we'll see? One BIM in 100 meters, one A101 in 100 meters...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0043par0335	Go to the grocery store across the street from the buttermilk.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0044par0336	Pack it up, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0040par0337	...we'll see a Carrefour at 100 meters, friends, in the most remote neighborhood. So, what else do we see there? We see grocery stores, butchers, greengrocers with their shutters closed. Look, let's go to Holland together. Do you see these chain markets in any neighborhood in the city? You can't see it because there are consumer cooperatives there. There, the consumer cooperatives will not enter into those streets: the tradesmen are standing, strong. They make strong purchases with co-ops, they make 100 discount purchases, 1,000 grocery stores all together, and they get stronger; consumer cooperatives are important for that. And then there's their manufacturer co-op. Do you know where he is? It's just outside the city. So when I was a child, there were villages in Istanbul, there were productions in their villages, the villagers came and sold in markets, our citizens ate organic food, and the villagers developed rural relations. What did you do? You've opened everything up, you've finished the peasant, you've taken it out of production. Only tomatoes are produced in greenhouses in Antalya. Tomatoes are 50 cents in the field, 8 liras in Istanbul, my friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have one more minute, Mr. President? You gave a friend two minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0045par0342	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0040par0343	I'm ending it, Mr. President. I'm saying hello and I'm ending it. Friends, I mean, the key goes through consumer cooperatives and manufacturers' co-ops. BIM, A101 and Carrefour are so powerful, they have such a powerful lobby that they can't even touch the competition. Friends, in this sense, it's all about freedom and democracy. Let us not be the budget of these unconscionable and unfair budgets, as well as the ministry of unconscionable trade and industry. Come, let's make a budget for Uncle Mehmet the butcher; come, Mr. Hussein the grocery store. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0046par0348	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0047par0349	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0046par0352	Mr. President, thank you. The speaker, of course, has a right to criticism, but criticism has to be right. We're discussing a fair and conscientious budget. For example, as a reflection of it, yesterday, we had been signed through TOKI to allow our entire nation to meet with our citizens every year on the 100,000 social housing projects, in the great work of the minimum-paying, truly small-income citizens. We're a party that put science into industry, technology, and trade, always sees science as the truest mogul. At the same time, science is being produced at TÜBITAK, HAVELSAN, ASELSAN, TAI, private sector, universities, Gebze High Institute of Medicine, technology is being produced.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0047par0355	Time is limited... Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0046par0357	I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0048par0358	I have a request, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0046par0359	We've done a lot of really great work on this, and it's based on expanding freedom, spreading prosperity, securing our nation's security, the goal of a strong and great Turkey, and moving from here, with the metaphor of the Meslana, our foot is strong and nationally strong and great in Turkey, and the other foot is equally fair and merciful, he says.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0049par0360	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0048par0361	For now, I'm talking about spending. After Friday, I hope...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit01spe0049par0362	Thank you very much. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0049par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 The commission is in place. Now it's time for the Istanbul MP, Mr. Erol Kadircıoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Mulecioğlu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0050par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. My speech will be on the Competitiveness Foundation, but let me start by saying that today's executives should not be taken in any way -- of course I will -- because the problems that I'm going to try to highlight with the Competition Foundation -- are not the problems of the people who work there, especially the President, but a system issue, and I'm going to be critical of this system. Now, sir -- very briefly, with good use of my time -- why did the Competition Foundation need it? You know, one of the first countries involved in this process was Turkey, when the world was dominated by the neoliberal free-marketing views of the world along with 1980. After his late Ozal came to power in 1983, he wanted to bring up what we call privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation. I don't want to put an end to it, but the practice between 1980 and 1990, the free market order didn't happen in a way that was necessary, and so in 1991, during the 49th government, during the rule of the late Demirel and the late Inönu, Law 4054 was prepared to fill this gap, and in the context of European Union relations, when we decided to join it, it became a necessity, and therefore, as we waited overnight in the House of Competitiveness. Now, the most important thing about this institution is that it's independent. Why should he be independent? Because the issue we call "rescue" is that the institution must be independent in order to prevent companies from implementing their relationship with each other and against consumers and against other firms in any way. But as far as I'm concerned, there's not a very clear idea in Turkey about why it should be independent. Friends, because the potential to disrupt competition is also relevant to government businesses. So this institution was so established that it was said that both the institutions of the state, the OSCE, and other institutions like it, must be independent to frame and to frame the competitive behavior of the private sector, it has been passed into the law and accepted as an autonomous institution. But you all know, I say this very often, because the reason I say this, again, is because the Justice and Development Party had started this last term before the Presidential government system, in fact, especially in the economy, there's a problem called economic decision-making, so it's called the free market, but on the one hand, there's an understanding that it's trying to manipulate the economy with as many administrative decisions as possible. So in 2011, you'll remember that the independence of these institutions was eliminated by a decree of law with a KHK (with a decree), all of which became up to the Ministry, open to the control of ministers. Now, therefore, as we look at it today, I think, as far as I can see, these institutions have to do business to ignore the impact of state institutions on disrupting competition. Because otherwise, they'll be in trouble. So there's this problem, and we can't get over it. As I said earlier, it's a matter of government. With the government's decision in 2011, they all lost their independence in the same bag, from the SPK to the BDDK, from the Competition Foundation to the Tobacco Council. And so the institutions that we're dealing with now are essentially government institutions, not state institutions, so there's no chance of them being neutral. Now, on the other hand, friends, I'm just saying in the context of manufacturing industry, we're dealing with a painting in the manufacturing industry that should be terrified, which should be when any person who's interested and knows about it looks at it. 60 percent of the manufacturing industry has extreme monopoly. If I may put it another way, there is a situation that must and must be handled by the Competition Agency. The monopoly's almost rolling. It's something that we can calculate for the manufacturing industry, but it brings up other sectors, services sectors, agriculture, the possibility that the situation will be even more severe. So as of today, is there a free market economy in Turkey? So, like zombies, there is and there isn't, but I don't think there is, and as far as I can see, it's decided directly on the prices in the market, in the way that these monopolys have determined their relationship between them. Now, well, this is a situation where, of course, the Competitiveness Foundation has to come up in front of it, and the Competitiveness Agency needs to evaluate the resumation, which is very clear when necessary. To tell you the truth, I'd like to turn my last four minutes into a media conversation. Because the monopolism of the media, friends, is not like monopolizing in the white goods industry. What happens when there's a monopoly in the white furniture industry? Let's say, for example, there's been a monopoly on the refrigerator market, which means that the price of white goods is going to go up, so there's going to be a lot of profits, and, of course, it's a situation against consumers. But, despite that, we need to underline that the media has a more specific situation. Because when there's a monopoly in the media, two important issues come up, guys. One of them is that there's a chance that the country will fall apart from democratic ideals, because if there are few people controlling the media, the country's democratic ideal, democratic waiting, or a democratic social political environment will not be possible. Why? Because very few people break into the home of a lot of people through the media and have the opportunity to manipulate them as they please; that's one. Secondly, in recent years -- those interested in economics know -- expectations, consumers and producers' expectations have become very important concepts. Even if they're not financial concepts, but just like financial variables, there are concepts, expectations that need to be considered in the economy. Friends, monopolization in the media can easily manipulate people's expectations of society, make it look like they've become something that's not, and thus, in terms of people or companies who own this media, it creates a great impact from the stock market as much as any transaction. Now, therefore, the monopolism in the media is a very special monopoly, and I think that every institution, in every institution, in any institution responsible for the democratic mechanisms of society, needs to be paid attention to. Now, I asked that question in the Plan and Budget Commission if the monopoly in the media bothers you. I don't want to read it now, but we measured it, and they answered in the form of the media that there's no need for any kind of control, so there's no need for a study. Now, friends, those who know about this know that if you measure the rate of condensation at.4 firms, that's one thing, but if you use an index in terms of cross ownership, for example, I mean: a company can't just have television; it has television; it has a radio; it has ownership in the digital field; and this is the main reason for the media to have a negative effect, as I'm trying to say in various areas. So I have very little time left in this sense - there is a real problem when we look at it. Now, guys, maybe this is what I wanted to talk about, but...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0051par0069	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0050par0070	Guys, it's in my hands, I've calculated, I've looked at media ownership in Turkey. Who owns this media? And it's okay to say their names, I'll tell you. Ciner: Haberturk, Show TV, Bloomberg. Birth: SATAR, NTV, King TV, NTV Sports. Demirören: CNN Türk, Kanal D, Teve2. Kalyon: ATV, A News, New Age TV. Turkmedia, ES Media: 24 TV, TV 360, TV4. Collars: TV and Tempo TV. There's also the Islas Holdings called TGRT and TGRT News.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0052par0071	No FOX?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0050par0072	I left FOX out because he was the only one... not only that, I left others out, so there's another media group, like the 3N Media, which I left out. Why am I considering this now? Friends, of course you won't see the arrows here, but most of these groups, almost all of them, who have the media, are construction companies, but they're also shell-shifting. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they've changed their identity, and now, as I understand it, they've become giant conglomerates with almost every investment. Guys, you know what's weird? In recent years, companies that have received public tenders from the government, and especially by invitationals, are almost these companies that I count. I mean, it can't be a coincidence, guys. The Justice and Development Party's government has established a mechanism like this: you reflect what you want in the media, you reflect what the government wants, and you get a tender from the government for it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0053par0076	But that's a serious accusation.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0050par0077	You're right, it's a very heavy accusation, and because of the weight of me -- the president of the competition is here, Mr. Ministers is here, so I'd like to stress it. This is indeed one of the greatest damage to Turkey's democracy, and it is extremely difficult to clean up. A tender system is associated with media ownership, and that's how they run Turkey. Guys, this is really not democratic at all, and I think it needs to be fixed. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0054par0080	Mr. President, for the record, I'd like to point out that we're not going to accept the accusation that was just said. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0055par0082	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0056par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the General Assembly. We're doing budget interviews. It's clearly stated in the Civil Code that we will negotiate according to what procedure and basis. There's a program that our Parliamentary President has been suppressing. Since we've had budget talks, some of the MPs in Parliament will make territorial statements about the work and procedures of the administration, and some of the MPs will make territorial statements about the work and procedures of the administration; it can't be natural. There's a situation going on, and I've noted this before: just this afternoon, the members of another political party group appreciated some of the government's actions, and we respected that view. The lawmakers are now making critical approaches to the government's business and operations, and according to this programme, the government will come and respond to criticism on behalf of the cabinet -- let's not call it government -- after the political party groups. If this is the way to do it, I'm calling the PARTI and the HDP; after every positive talk about the government, let's get into the system, and let's put something on the record. There is no such procedure, Mr. President. If this continues, I'd like to make a one-minute, two-minute comment and evaluation of each speaker's speech after each speech. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0057par0091	We support the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0058par0092	I understand that, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, thank you. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 Now it belongs to Istanbul MP Hüda Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0059par0146	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment in the 2020 budget section of the Hellal Accreditation Agency. Dear friends, it is not our duty as opponents, to oppose, to criticize, or to criticize whatever power may do, but to reject what the government does, no matter what opposition says, to reject what they say, to ignore what they offer, to ignore what they offer, no matter what good they offer, no matter what they offer, to object, to condemn it. By doing so, we all know that we have not fulfilled our responsibility to our people and our right to conduct here. It's our job here, just because we think differently in different parties, different identities, different political preferences, different political projects and administrations, we shouldn't interrupt each other, we shouldn't interrupt, we shouldn't interrupt, we shouldn't interfere. Each of us, in our country, our people, for the sake of our country, for the sake of our society, for the sake of peace, for the sake of peace, for the hope, for the future, for the sake of hope, for the safety of the future, for the struggle, for the effort of this, we are in the politics of this. We all love our country, our country, our people. No matter what anyone thinks, no matter how they live, no matter what party, no identity, no faith, no thought, with us 82 million people, each one of us, with the best of us, with the best of us, more calm, more calm than the stormy ports we're in, our people can look at tomorrow with hope, live, earn bread, live freely, live freely, without fear that people can't get along, without fear of talking, take the phone, not even worry about writing a word on social media, read the book, what newspaper, what kind of information our people are going to live in, live in peace, we all want to fight in peace, not have to talk. No one's happy with blood, no one's happy with unrest, fighting, hate, none of us want it, but maybe we have differences in our diagnosis, we have differences in our treatments. Dear friends, as politicians, our duty should not be to quarrel with each other over concepts, words, beliefs, saints, values, distorting agendas, creating agendas, by doing so disturbing the peace of our people. I don't want to believe that it's anybody's idea to put a show on the displays, on the screens, of course. Our duty, here... are our people really at peace? Can they find bread? Can people feel safe? Open the kid, can he pay his rent? Are there any who can't pay off their loans and are on the verge of suicide? Do we have poor people, workers, peasants who can't pay their bills and struggle with thousands of foreclosure files in court? Which I do. Have people given up hope of justice because of injustice? Do thousands of people deal with acts that shouldn't be in a democratic, conscientious, human, moral society, inhumane attitudes and actions in prisons? Do thousands of people go to prison unjustly just because they think differently and talk differently? What about those who can't work and work for what they deserve? In numerous areas of this, we continue to receive hundreds of complaints, applications, every day. What kind of miracle of life do millions of people who try to live off a minimum wage freak? And what can we do for these people? How can we open new jobs and new jobs to millions of people now, mostly colleges, qualified unemployed? How can women breathe in peace and look to the future when they feel safe at home and on the street without fear? We have to worry about that. We had a Minister of Family, Work and Social Services here yesterday. It's not my place to speak, but I'd also like to point out that some of our fellow speakers, some of our fellow deputies from the MHP yesterday... yes, in society, the family structure of a man and woman should be protected by maintaining their human values, personality, privacy, authenticity, of course, but we have to pay attention to this, dear friends: the increase of divorces, the dissolution of families... we need to not lose sight of the kind of frame, how we're trying to protect the family, what kind of life we're condemning the woman to. The expression of our friend was noted to me yesterday that violence was reflected in the street by the increase of divorces. The reflection of the violence that she had already experienced inside the house is now a public appearance of an ajsberg, which is inevitable, my friends. When we're trying to protect the family here, maybe subconsciously or unconsciously, we're seeing the sensitivity, the problem, and we're objecting to it, we're worrying about it: protecting the family is being matched to protecting the man's interests, or trying to be brought back. It is here that the women are neither safe in the street nor in the house, nor in the environment where they face violence, but first the training of men, the freedom of women and the authenticity of women, the equality of sex, the equality of personality in every sense, the guarantee of human equality. We need to take care of these things, or who has little faith, who hasn't believed, who hasn't believed, how many places have been read, how many mosques, how many places have been built, how many flags have been raised, and neither religion nor morality nor justice nor rights are measured, my friends. Constantly, through identity and belief, an imposition, constant hostility, threats, and beca problem, hegemonic and tacit mentalism policies are always a cause of concern, distrust among our people, and violence against each other, and hatred spreads amongst our people. What's painful, sad, and what really makes us feel like a wound is that our ruling and ruling representatives, our friends, are being ignored by the fact that they're just a criticism, that they're just a polemic point, that they're objecting to the truth, that they're being ignored, that they're objective to everything. These are the realities of our society. In order for us to treat these diseases, we must first be able to associate with each other in healthy diagnosis, together, to take steps in the interests of our people, friends. Look, you certainly know that you have read a recent study of KONDA. According to this, religious indicators have significant declines among our people, especially among young people. I'm not going into the details of this, but each of you can read it and look into it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0060par0152	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0059par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Guys, we need to put this painting in front of us and do an accounting. We're going to raise a religious generation. In a 17-year period of power on the charge, if we are now faced with religious beliefs, life, preferences, what do our young people think, what do they prefer, and why this claim has rotted, how it rots, how it needs to be questioned once again. As I just stated in my speech, our problem is to maintain justice, the will, the freedom, the right to live, the right to pray, the right to pray, what did he do, the mosque, did he come? Thank you all.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0061par0157	Now it's time for Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0062par0160	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute everyone. I will also express our views on the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology, but before that, today in Ankara, the trial of JITEM, which has been going on for a long time at the Medical Courthouse. The case, which resulted in 19 people being tried and killed by 17 people, has, unfortunately, resulted in acquittal, as did other unsolved cases, in other 1990s, and was covered up by a policy of punishment. The crimes committed here in the previous period, unfortunately, were once again owned by the power of this era, with these punishmentless policies. We'd like to say once again that justice must be done so that these wounds can be bandaged, that they can be healed. Now, dear friends, like I said, I'm going to talk about the Ministry of Industry and Technology budget. He used to have science in front of him, but it's been a long time since we put science aside. Because in a country where science can be, science can produce industry, technology must have democracy and freedoms, our predecessors told us. If in one country children are raised from the 1st grade or even pre-school education to the university in some way by a monotheistic perspective, we can't expect young people to produce science if they are raised in a generation that doesn't question, criticize, object. Of course, the state of the universities is one of the most important parts of our failure to produce science. There are now dozens of universities all over Turkey, but most of these universities, let alone professors, we can no longer identify the number of universities without professors. We're going through a period when the vet is the dean of law school, and unfortunately, all the academics who object, do scientific research, offer criticism are facing either the threat of punishment or the threat of expulsion. I'm going to give you two examples of these, which we've already expressed before on this council bench. One of them was Baunt Şık. He was, as you know, a scientist who studied the spread of cancer in some areas, including the area of Hobeleli. He filed a report on this and made this report public. However, five to 12 years of punishment has been demanded for providing confidential documents and explaining them, and he has been sentenced. He was a scientist, and this scientist was unfortunately punished for his research or research. Again, you will recall, we have expressed a lot from this parliamentary platform that the peace academics who signed the declaration "We will not be a party to this crime" have been declared a traitor because 1,121 peace academics have voiced their objections to the war politics that exists in this country. First, they were expelled by the Turkish Cypriots, they were sued by the State of the Union, they received sentences from these cases, they moved them to the Constitutional Court for violating freedom of expression. Look, the Supreme Court has stated that this is a violation of freedom of expression, that this is a violation of freedom of expression, but we are very embarrassed to make this decision, but we do not agree with the content of it. He had to make a statement. Well, in this case, there's no technology, there's no science, there's no industry in this country. Because from what we're looking at -- now, we've looked at the entire budget, so, especially this is the Department of Industry and Technology's 2014 budget for weapons industry, which is 44 billion dollars in defense industry, and the 2020 budget is almost 160 billion dollars -- how many times, you guys do the math. In six years, we've routed almost all of our ministry's budget into the industrial area. So what is it? Either we'll be a partner in a war and somehow market them, or we'll somehow create a war in a country, or we'll hope for this war, and we'll pray for war. That way, we wait for the country to rise. Everything is imported in Turkey. The beans are imported, the wheat is imported, the flour is imported, and I know from my hometown -- many friends here probably have similar landscapes in their hometown -- our land is empty, it's not run, but we import wheat from outside, we import beans from outside because we don't provide support for food, agriculture in any way. All we care about is gun industry, and we can't make it, guys, we're bringing in all the parts from abroad, we're actually doing assembly industry. We bring them in, we put them together like Legos, and we advertise guns made by someone from all over the place. I looked at the Minister's social media account, it works like a flagtar ad agency, the Flagtar ad agency. One out of every three of those he threw was the drones, the SIHAs, the drones, the drones, etcetera, and so on. I wish that instead of trying to promote a company, there would really be some steps to the development of this country.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0063par0169	They're industrial production, industrial production.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0062par0170	He's producing industry, but isn't there any other industrial production? There are other forms of industry in Turkey, let me explain...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0063par0171	He advertises them, too.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0064par0172	The whole of Turkey advertises them.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0062par0173	There's food industry, machine industry, mineral, textile industry, weaving, forest products, glass, ceramics, chemistry...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0063par0174	They all do.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0064par0175	He advertises them, too.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0062par0176	I can tell you the world. We don't do that, guys. Here's what we do: we open up to someone's loot. For example, we're going to develop the Maden industry. We've done the slaughter of 190000 trees in the Kaz Mountains by other companies. He didn't do it again, another company from abroad came in, destroyed 190000 trees, made a statement like this, even...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0065par0177	Talk about the forests that the PKK burned down!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0062par0178	We don't employ outside workers, Turks carry very good stones.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0066par0179	No, no, no.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0067par0180	When it's your turn to talk, it's a shame!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0062par0181	I'm afraid that's how foreign companies view people in Turkey. So, how much are we developing chemical industry? If you say, well, we're not dealing with a single kind of industry that won't harm the ecological system. It's our way of looking at science when we're supposed to be trying to get something out of that atom's fragmentation, just like the ones that somehow ripped the atom apart, and we're supposed to be trying to make it into an atomic bomb to destroy people. Our view of science, as I said, is how can we develop industry? Friends, this is not a situation that will contribute to the development of the country, we can't organize ourselves through wars, we can't design our economy with the prospect of war. So, we've said from here, from this platform over and over again: this budget is a budget that we spend money on defence. But we don't think about how to develop agriculture when our land is empty. We don't think about how to raise real scientists in this country. There's no more young people in college, they run away, they run away from this country. This is 1,128 academics who are currently out there trying to maintain their academic identity independently because you exported them.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0068par0185	No, they're not running, they're being kidnapped by the PKK.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0069par0186	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, may I present to our dear brother...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0062par0187	Again, like I said, look, they can't express themselves because there's no freedom in these universities. Can you expect production from a brain that doesn't question, doesn't criticize, doesn't object? These brains can't produce, they swear. You're trying to raise a generation like this, and you're saying, "Let them swear, let them not protest." Isn't that right? You've said it so often, you've tried to grow it this way, your curriculum, your approach to science in this way, your approach to industry in this way, your approach to technology in this way. For him, we've been living on an Indian automobile dream for years. The only thing we can do about the local car is bring the parts from the outside to Turkey, we'll put the Legos together, I'll do that, guys, relax, I'll do that. You don't have to set up a budget for that. Bring them, we love them, and we bring them together. So, dear friends, the way this budget is being built, the way it looks at this budget, the way you run this country, it really doesn't contribute to the development of the country. You're looting ecology, nature, disturbing people's peace with a constant war environment, destroying freedom environments, causing young minds, productive brains to leave this country. All the young people now say, "How do I get off the cover of this country and take my breath in another country?" Guys, we've told you over and over this is not the way. I think you should listen to us young people, we're the only ones who can transform and change this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0070par0192	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0071par0193	We will not allow explanations that will negatively affect our normal flow. Here you are, Miss Arzu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0070par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech, the previous orator expressed the name of our National Movement Party, and I would like to make an answer to that. It's not answerable, I just want to make a statement. As the Nationalist Movement Party, there is an active, equal and participatory direction at the center of our view of the woman. As our leader here stated, a woman is a mother, a wife is a wife, a woman is a nest, a pillar of the family. As in our glorious and glorious history, we feel that the woman should develop policies today by taking part in the man's side, as in the past. We've done the necessary work on it, and we'll keep doing it. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0072par0201	Thank you. Mr. Turan, you've come here, you've made a request.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0073par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is, what I'm going to say is about TUBITAK.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0072par0206	The question is later.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0073par0207	It's not a question, sir. I'm going to make a statement about illegality. IN TÜBITAK, there is a lack of law. On 20/9/2019, the TEZ-KOOP-HIS Union signed a contract to the TÜBITAK. While the members of the authority-taking union should have taken advantage of that authority, you also employed workers who had invested solidarity with another union before the union signed the contract, which means you've achieved institutional damage along with an unfair competition. I have expressed my opinion, Mr. President, that this painting should be brought up under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that harm and unfair competition should be eliminated. Thank you for your promise. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0074par0260	Şanlıurfa MP Ayşe Dürýr. Here you go, Mr. Driver.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0075par0263	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the people who live in the country's most fertile territory, which is the area covered by the GAPP, are disbanded as seasonal workers all over the country. Where they go, they are employed for food, under inhuman conditions, exposed to unsecured and racist practices. The development of the welfare level of the local population was aimed at the GAP. Unfortunately, the region has many problems, such as agriculture, industry, infrastructure, energy, unemployment and health, which are growing with population growth. In Turkey, cotton fields are cut down and imported cotton. The Urbane farmer is in serious trouble. The gas, agricultural medicine, fertilizer, seed, input cost is increased by 100 per cent, and the support is restricted due to electricity and irrigation debt. In 17 years, you have sterilized nohudu, lentils, hay, cotton, cotton, cattle, and told the farmer, "Go sit in your house, and live as you live." You have condemned the farmer to banks, and the farmer can't pay the heavy bank debts, and in these conditions he has given up farming and livestock. You punish the people of the region with these problems, which will be solved with only a tenth of the budget you spend on war, exploitation, and oppression. Dear lawmakers, there are serious health problems and are not seen by the government. More than 500,000 Syrians are also present in Urbana, a population of more than 2 million. There's only one obstetrician and children's hospital available to those living in the central counties of Urbana. When we look at the conditions of health workers, an average of 120 patients per day are taken care of. Can a healthy health care be provided under these conditions? Paramedics are being robotized. In addition to this heavy pace, the Urban Health Director of Urban Health, on September 19th, without any written orders, has temporarily cancelled the annual permits of all health workers, citing operations that continue in Rojava. Now, I've learned that only a few of the doctors will be able to use part of their leave from today, but the assignments continue, especially Tel Abyad and Eisayn. And why is that? Because innocent people are being killed in northeast Syria, massacres are being committed so the Kurds don't gain status. The latest statements from the United Nations and UNICEF were about the civilian massacre at Tel Rifat. 12 people were killed and children were among them. Doctors of border cities are often kept on watch so that SSO gangs can be more comfortable in health care. Yes, valuable lawmakers, the government's campaign to suppress democratic politics under pressure is under way. On October 9, there were home raids on the grounds of the DTK work, 53 of our friends were taken into custody and 30 of our friends were arrested. Among those arrested are Mehmet Yavuzel, 55-year-old patient and elderly mother of our DBP member Mehmet Yavuzel, who was burned to death in the basements of Cizre, and Mahmut Korkmaz, a cancer patient with chemotherapy, and 100 per cent visually impaired Evidence Akkurt. Again, in Hilvan Prison, the 65-year-old heavily ill prisoner Emine Aslan Aydoğan is taken to hospital on December 3rd, where he dies. Emine, this is a terrorist funeral during your mother's burial. A condolence house is not given by Mardin trustees, and a condolence tent is being blocked. We're led by a power that doesn't allow funerals, condolences, religious commitments to a mother who died in prison at 65 years of age. I knew the mother well, we worked together for years. Emine was a man who defended peace and fought for peace until the end. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mayor, can I have a minute?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0076par0273	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0075par0274	Yeah, you're gonna need justice one day. You guys are using tagging and torture as a method for all the issues you can't solve, but human dignity is too valuable and too powerful to be defeated by security policies, torture and arrests. This budget is not the budget of women, labourers and peoples; it is the budget of government self-sustaining. I salute the General Assembly again, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0077par0278	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0078par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is never possible to participate in the statements of the character we just heard. Because the phrases used are racist practices for seasonal workers...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0079par0283	No?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0080par0284	No?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0081par0285	No?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0082par0286	No! Such unrealistic statements have been made, such as massacres to prevent Kurds from gaining status in the north of Syria. Turkey, northern Syria, Kurd, Turkmen...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0083par0288	No job, no job!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0082par0289	...Arab, Keldani, Christians, Muslims, whoever they are, are all assistants to health care, food, housing, but the PKK, PYD, YPG, DAEŞ, whatever its name is, is also against terrorists. That's the gist of it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0084par0292	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0085par0293	Is that why your president said it's not suitable for Kurds to live there? Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0086par0294	He talks about the nut worker in Sakarya, Mr. Muhammad, in Sakarya.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0087par0295	Dear President, the esteemed MPs are the AK PARTI, which, as a result, demonstrates zero tolerance for torture, which allows international contracts to be transformed into an internal legal system under the 90th Amendment of the Constitution. So these are never acceptable. Our government and our nation can't be blamed like this. I just wanted to say that we rejected it. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0088par0298	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0089par0300	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we didn't expect our orator's speech to be too accurate for the Justice and Development Party, it's normal. I mean, everyone's expressing their views here. And we're going to keep saying our reviews, because that's what the budget means. We criticize your policies in every way. Now, last time in Tel Rifat, I told you here that 10 civilians were killed by the S.E.O. gangs... we call them SOO gangs, the National Syrian Army gang. So you'll get used to it because it is, that's how the whole world defines it. The United Nations Department of Human Rights has just entered into the record, and he said: "There may be heavy war crimes and human crimes committed there, and we are investigating this." Why are you trying to stand behind these heavy crimes of humanity and war?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0090par0303	We're not standing behind the YPG.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0091par0304	Why are you standing behind the YPG?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0089par0305	Eight children died in Tel Rifat. They lined up eight children's funerals on the floor.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0090par0307	We curse the low YPG.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0089par0308	Yeah, listen, listen. Look, you have a Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0092par0309	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0089par0310	I will, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0093par0311	Why are you standing behind the YPG?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0089par0312	Eight children died, eight children; their funerals were lined up on the floor, just like the funerals in Roboski. See this. People see it, people see it all over the world, but why do you support it, it's not understandable. I mean, what else? Now, this is what you call the operation, we've been calling the war since the beginning, we've been calling the occupational initiative from the beginning. We've told you that, and we've told you why. Because there are people living there, hundreds of thousands of people living there, there's a life, there's a business, a farmer, a worker, a woman, a man, a child. When you're in a military occupation there, you're inevitably dealing with civilians. And we've been critical of that, and we've always said how devastating the damage to civilians would be. These reviews aren't new, so I don't understand why you're upset about it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0094par0316	Dear MPs, Mr. Engin has just made a very good suggestion. The Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Industry budget are being discussed, and Turkey's two very important Ministry of Trade and Industry Ministry. I don't think it's right to change that agenda to make Parliament controversial today with a different agenda. Anyway, these are the issues that are being discussed right now, the issues that have been discussed for a long time. At the end of the discussion, let's make a promise, let's let them come, let's answer all of them, let's make some statements to themselves or to their own parties, if our Group Vice Presidents approve. Now, it turns out that we can't operate well with these polemics.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0095par0317	There is no non-democracy agenda, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0094par0318	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0096par0321	Thank you. Mr. President, I'll tell you in advance that as soon as Mr. Akbasoglu hits the button, I'm going to press it, too. Now I want to make two things clear. I'm going to take some time off and make some evaluations so I don't get a lot of promises. Mr. President, I just told you, you've made your point. We'll take care of things here. Now, it's said in the Civil Code of 69, that the commission, the political party group, or lawmakers, who have a different opinion of whether or not he has been bullied or asserted, can make statements and respond. For explanations and answers, the president appreciates the time to make promises in the same session. I do not read the rest. Now, as I listened to Mr. Akbasoglu, I wondered if I didn't know, or how long have these regions been in the domain of the Republic of Turkey?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0097par0327	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0096par0328	The MP said there are civilian casualties in this geography. Yes, there is, whoever's doing it, there is. I always say that we need Turkey to fight terrorism in a strict and effective way, and we need them in a lot of law proposals from the government in the past. We said yes, by giving constructive warnings. But, Mr. President, there's no such thing as I'm fighting terrorism, let three civilians die. Let three civilians go, my dear, using terror as an excuse. The logic is inhuman logic, which is unacceptable, one. Second of all, there are those who liken this SOO to the Kuvaimilli, to the National Forces, to the Kovaimilli, to the Imperial War, or to the National Forces, which is a complete freak. Is that even possible? Everyone in the world knows there's a ton of jihadists with Al Qaeda extensions in it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0097par0331	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0096par0332	If these are partially contained today, they will cut off their wages for a month, and they will slit your throats. As a matter of fact, I've seen dozens of SOC villains on social media, in the world, and in Turkey, cutting off human heads and posing. I don't think it's right for anyone here to define and claim the SOC like a white spoon out of milk. You said safe zone, safe zone, what happened? A more risky, more uncertain area has emerged for Turkey. So my final sentence, Mr. President, is that I invite you to comply with the Civil Code 69. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0098par0336	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0099par0338	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. President, I'd like to point out that we're willing to take the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the center of that day and express our views. We, too, have been trying to pay attention to this matter from a long time ago, to the possible number of speakers. However, when there are some statements against Turkey, it is also obliged to express our views on these issues. Sir, massacre is being used in the northeast of Syria. There's no way to keep quiet about this now. The massacre was carried out there by the DEA, the PKK/PYD, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people and the security of Turkey and the safety of the region, and Turkey, through the Turkish Armed Forces, has prevented these negatives from happening to them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0100par0343	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0099par0344	These allegations mean nothing more than to provide indirect support to the PKK and the PYD terrorist organization. Not eight children, but one child to be slaughtered, that's something we all have to curse. And as the National Movement Party, I want to say that we, for whatever reason, have condemned the murder, the murder, the murder of people. But I would also like to remind you that with these actions of the Turkish Armed Forces, in human terms and in terms of human life and humanitarian aid, there is only one example for the entire world in human integration with the people of that region. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0100par0347	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0101par0349	Thank you, Mr. President. Don't think wrong, I'm not telling you this to make it polemic, but I want to tell you something about the reason for these conversations. Now, look, we're talking about the budget of the Ministry of Industry, and the budget of the Ministry of Industry, in fact, is basically a budget designed to develop military testing complex, which we claim is a part of development based on that understanding, and so while we're discussing this industry policy, this is not something that was first invented in Turkey -- it's something that the Minister of Industry knows -- in many countries in the world in the 70s, in the 80s, in countries of the West, and in the countries of the Far East, in the United States, in the United States, while we're discussing it's an industry policy, it's something that's been developed. So when we're discussing this, we're inevitably discussing war policies and arming.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0102par0353	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0101par0354	Second: When discussing the Ministry of Commerce's budget -- and since this came up in the Commission -- for example, the Afrin olives -- an operation was performed on Afrin, an invasion attempt was made, where the OSO gangs took the olive product and presented it to various parts of the world through Turkey, and even to the interior market, as allegedly. So the Afrin olives and olive oil are also part of the discussion of the Trade Ministry's policies. So we're not having an argument out of context, I just wanted to point out. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0102par0356	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0103par0358	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Altay has just made a statement showing the Civil Code. And we're already doing our talking under these Civil Code decrees. In the sense that we insult both our group and our nation and our government, beyond the truth...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0104par0360	It's done to your government.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0103par0361	Look at this: All of us, our nation, our state, all of us, the government, and our group, and you are using torture as a method, saying, "You are making massacres so that the Kurds don't gain status." These are all lies, I declare them not true.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0105par0362	What's Roboski?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0103par0363	So here's the thing: you say what you want, we don't give any explanations. What a beautiful world! What a beautiful world! So make any unrealistic accusations...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0106par0365	And you're saying a lot of unrealistic things on the stand. What your spokesman said on the stand is all a lie!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0107par0366	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0103par0367	While you are having a different relationship between the press and the tender, and I'm making a big accusation by your own spokesman. We reject this accusation. There is a condition where we can't even tolerate a sentence that we say.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0108par0368	We'll endure.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0103par0369	So, dear friends, look, there are a lot of accusations, and we give all of them short answers. The Syrian national army is a structure with status in the United Nations; one.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0109par0372	What U.N. are you talking about?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0110par0373	What U.N.!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0103par0374	Second: Terrorists directed from northern Syria to our country have been answered in accordance with international law. Let's all curse the PKK\PYD and DAEŞ. Curse DAEŞ, terror organizations...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0111par0376	30 people who cut their heads off inside the EPA are now inside the Syrian National Army.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0112par0377	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0103par0378	I'm picking it up, sir. Yes, don't discriminate between terrorist organizations. I curse DAEŞ, I curse the PKK, the NYD, the YPG, the baby killers, and I curse the Zionist, imperialists behind them.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0113par0381	Don't send them stuff with trucks.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0103par0382	As a result, with the drug trade, I curse every terrorist organization with the extensions of imperialism within us.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0113par0383	Who was MIT trucking guns to?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0103par0384	And I declare that we are with all civilians, our Mehmetchik, our health workers, our Redbears, our AFAD, our nation and our state, all civil citizens, all of them, without looking at their religion, language, race, and we will be with them. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0114par0386	You were with the vineyard.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0115par0387	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0116par0388	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0115par0390	Mr. President, every time I listen to the speaker, there's one thing they have in common: civilian people die in the north of Syria. We can all have a joint opinion here. It's a legionary army called DEAS, PKK\PYD, ESO, but ultimately, it's the civilian population there.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0117par0391	When did the S.E.O. kill civilians? What civilian did the S.E.O. kill?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0115par0392	But at that point, let us not forget: Who was the one who poured gasoline in his hand when the fire burned? It was your foreign policy policy that dropped Turkey into the strategic pit, called the strategic depth. You have a lot to do with Syria's arrival, and every civilian who dies there has your responsibility. If thou seest him exposed, thou shalt cover him, and thou shalt feed him when he is hungry, and thou shalt not look at thy tongue, nor thy religion; that is how we have been taught.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0118par0394	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0119par0395	We're making them.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0115par0396	As a result, as people pouring gasoline into this fire, I would like to remind you once again that you have to face yourself. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0120par0398	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0121par0399	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0120par0401	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we're very curious to know which United Nations recognizes this gang called the Syrian National Army as the legitimate army of Syria, which United Nations?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0122par0403	Is the YPG legit?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0120par0404	It's probably your United Nations, it's not about us, it's about the United Nations in the world. Look what the U.N. has agreed to! The United Nations Office of Human Rights has made a statement that this Syrian National Army gang has committed human rights violations and committed crimes against humanity and war crimes. If Turkey is standing next to them, he's guilty, too. He says. The U.N. Office of Human Rights explains that, and you don't know it. Now, look...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0123par0405	What does it say about the YPG?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0120par0406	That's not true. The Human Rights Watch is making a statement.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0123par0408	What does it explain for YPG and PYD?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0120par0409	No, you don't. You don't mean that. We asked you, you said...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0124par0412	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0120par0413	We asked you, "Who's financing this? You can't answer." The Minister of National Defence said in the Plan and Budget Commission: "Our Ministry has nothing to do with this financing. Where's the money coming from? Where do they get paid?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0125par0414	America, America. PYD, YPG...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0120par0415	No, sir, I'm talking about the Syrian national army, the Syrian national army you formed in Urbana.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0125par0416	30,000 trucks gave the YPG, the NYD, the U.S. contract... don't cross!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0120par0417	Now, so don't speak without knowing, don't deceive people. They have ISIS people in them; they have Al Qaeda and Al Nusra remnants; they have ex-SSOsters; they have heads, they have rapists; you called them Kuvaimillia, and you are not ashamed. Now, that's not gonna work, you can't stand next to them. You can't defend what they're doing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0126par0420	What budget did you buy that 30,000 truck gun with?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0127par0421	What are you talking about? Don't do this every time, huh?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0126par0422	What budget did you get 30,000 truck guns for?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0127par0423	Get on that stand, we don't know what you're talking about. Mr. Salih, we don't understand you, come out here and listen to you, come out. Get up there!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0126par0424	Do you or do you not accept PKK as a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0128par0425	This is the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0127par0426	Yeah, get up there, I don't understand, I don't understand.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0126par0427	Do you curse the PKK or not?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0129par0428	So you can't stand in the presence of illegitimate, lawless, violation of international law, violating human rights, war law, legitimate power. This is unacceptable. When we say this, you become angry; you will not be angry; you will refrain from standing beside them. These aren't people who fight for human rights and war laws, they're gangs, they're slaughtering civilians, I'll tell you that one more time. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0130par0431	The PKK is also a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0131par0432	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0132par0434	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Akbasoglu said: "We don't insult the nation here." Now, Mr. Akbasoglu, it's not up to you, we don't insult the nation, don't worry. (HPP) (Applause in rows) We don't insult the state either. He said, of course, we don't insult the state, neither do we, but the state is criticized and criticized here. This is the only place the state has ever done, the most obvious, the most severe criticism of the work and operations of the administration, the one and only legitimate place. You guys are gonna have to put up with this.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0133par0436	But those who call the government invaders are on your side, brother.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0132par0437	Sir, wait a minute, let me finish.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0134par0438	We say to your authority that you have an occupational power to your power.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0132par0439	Now, Mr. President, on the other hand, I have listened to Mr. Ayşe Driver.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0135par0441	Wait, they'll make you next semester, deputy group president, wait.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0136par0442	Guys, what are you talking about when you're talking about the Deputy Director of the Group? Your Deputy Director of the Group has asked for a word right now, so hold on. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0137par0444	Mr. Ayşe Driver used the expression "Cathliam" but I didn't understand that the Turkish Armed Forces were slaughtering. I didn't get it. I didn't get it. He didn't give a name because he didn't give a name. If I had been able to do so, I could have done so because of the Syrian central administration, and I could have done so by now a group called the Suriye National Army, who had been called the Syrian Central Government. I didn't understand it. I wonder how Mr. Akbasoglu gets into this ball with his political sense and desire to bring him a positive from here, foaming and scratching at national emotions. For what it's worth, good lawmakers, nationalism is a delicate business, it doesn't come to abuse, don't do it. All of you, everyone here, including the HDP Group, love and love this country as much as you do, and you will accept it. You're not the only ones who love this country, this flag.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0138par0446	But they didn't clap!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0137par0447	This land, this flag, its virtue, its future is not only in your hands, but in ours as much as yours; give up this habit. I repeat, the state will be criticised and critically criticised here. It's an insult, let alone the state, we're insulting each other here, it's not moral. Again, I stress this emotion, but I demand that Mr. Akbasoglu be saved first: So you are not the only knights of the state, the nation; don't worry, there's a Republican People's Party Group here, don't worry.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0139par0450	What do you think? Is that what it is?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0140par0451	The government is not the property of one's father, but the government together forms an organ.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0141par0452	I'll give you the answer.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0142par0453	Here you are, Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0141par0455	Mr. President, thank you very much. It's like, you know, anyone can compete with each other at the point of knighthood. People, the country, the state, the religion, the more we all compete with the flag, the better it is. Come, let's join in the common denominator. In this regard, in favour of our nation, in favour of our government, in favor of our citizens, all 82 million people, we all want to stay here together, and we're only happy to do it, one.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0143par0457	That's not where we stand.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0141par0458	Second of all, the speaker can fix it, explain it. I didn't mean Mehmetchik.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0144par0459	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0141par0460	That's how you understood it at the time, but it wasn't said that, from the beginning of the sentences, as a political point of view, you're doing racist practices for the job workers in Turkey. It started.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0145par0463	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0141par0464	From there, we responded to the move against the state of the Republic of Turkey to accuse us and the leadership of Turkey of being there in civil slaughters, tortures, and torture.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0146par0465	Your power, your power. The government is not your father's property.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0141par0466	Other than that, dear friends, see, the Syrian National Army is made up of Syrians, the Kurdish, Arab, Turkmen there, and is fighting for Syria's well-being, the democratic republic. In the United Nations, special representatives representing the Syrian opposition are also involved in constitutional studies in their status. The Syrian national army, together with the Turkish army, performed very important functions in Operation Peace Fountain in Tel Abyad and Eluayn.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0147par0468	You're committing a crime, a crime.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0148par0469	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0141par0470	Mr. President, in the end, the state's practices, the government's practices, can be criticised, if you don't insult the nation and the state.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0149par0471	All your practices are an insult to the state and the nation!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0141par0472	But when the criticism is overturned and the slander and the lies are applied to false statements...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0149par0473	What have you done to this government! There's no greater insult than that!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0141par0474	...it is our duty, our responsibility to make it right in this matter. And no one should be offended by that. As a result, HDP spokeswoman has only made statements regarding the Syrian National Army and DAEŞ. But has not made a single statement regarding the terrorism of PKK/PYD and YPG. I invite them to curse. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0150par0478	That's what I'm saying, isn't that enough?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0151par0479	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0152par0481	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, this concept of quasimillia has also been made a polemic. It's not our job, and we don't have that definition. But with a reminder from here in 1921, in 1921, when Turkey was occupied by imperial states and when Adana, Antwerp, Marash, Urbana were occupied by the French, our army was disbanded, our weapons were taken from us, while the Kuvayimiliye platoons were formed under the command of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, under the unique conditions of the French headquarters.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0151par0484	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0152par0485	...and then the 1921 Ankara Agreement was declared with the French, which ended the French occupation in Adana, Antwerp, Maraş, Urbana. The French occupation, which ended in 1921, ended in 2018-2019, ended the American occupation in the region northeast of Syria, and their servants, their tongs, PKK/PYD. For years, the PKK seized the people's olives and brought olive oil to Turkey. I was one of the first lawmakers to bring him up because my constituency is the Manisa olive and olive oil manufacturer. I would like to point out that I did not see this much of the PKK's influence on olive groves, and now I don't think it's right to speculate over olives and olive oil.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0151par0487	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0152par0488	Now, dear friends, nothing happens without the government. The state doesn't just mean the economy, so the criticism of the state is different, the criticism of power is different. I would like to remind you that we, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are an element of the state of the Republic of Turkey. The state represents integrity and width, power is part of it. So the state will be criticised. It can be criticised, of course; no institution is free of criticism of the concept, but it has to live, protect, and understand the importance of its state, because unstated societies are being crushed underfoot.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0151par0490	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0152par0491	We, the Turkish nation, will never be crushed underfoot in our own country. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0151par0494	What was called Mr. Erkan: Let the people live so that the state can live the state.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0153par0495	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0151par0496	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0153par0498	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me make one thing clear: First, we're discussing the practices of power, their policies -- internal and foreign policy, economic policies -- and we're critical. Now, why does Mr. Akbasoglu, deputy leader of the AKP Group, show this reaction? Because they identified the party with the state, made it a party state. When we criticize the party and its ruling, the government, because it has become the state of the party, they rise up to criticize the state. It is not so. We also criticize you for making it a party state, and we criticize your power. Look, the problem isn't about these ministries now, of course, it's a more general problem.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0151par0501	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0153par0502	We'll continue to argue in the coming days. We're already critical of the single government regime, which you call the presidential government system, because the party is directly connected to the state issue, turning the separation of forces into a union of forces. All of these reviews have integrity, so we point to that. The last thing I'm going to say about this other matter is, remember, the whole world knows, this is the ISIS residue inside your national Syrian Army. That's why we're telling you to be careful when you're standing next to them, at least keep the government out of it, that's what we're saying. And last of all, I understand what the deputy director of the MPHP Group said, not to object to it, but -- I'm telling you again, not to you -- don't put the word of Kuvasimilli in history after a century; I'm telling you this. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0154par0506	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0155par0508	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. Well, there were a few evaluations that I didn't approve very much of, of course. I'd like to make an assessment as Mr. Akbasoglu did, sir. Sir, first of all, I don't think Mr. Akchay understood my exact meaning. The government is a mechanism to me.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0156par0511	I didn't answer you, I expressed our views.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0155par0512	No, no, no. And I'm not saying it's an answer, but it's a need for clarity. To me, the government is a mechanism. Of course, it's in the House, but there's an organ that operates the work and process of the state. In a sense, the criticism of the government's work and processing body is also a criticism of the state. It's the government's app. When you look through a citizen's window, the name of the application is the government. For example, in front of the Agricultural Loan Co-op, the farmer who came to his house foreclosed on his debt considers it a business and a process the state has done for me.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0157par0515	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0155par0516	So -- and I want to draw the gold specifically -- governments that have uncriminal, uncriminal governments are doomed to fail. Yes, keep a man alive so that the state may live, but if you can't criticize the state, if the state becomes critical, if the state is blessed, the life of that state will be very short. Mr. President, secondly, I find it strange that Mr. Akbasoglu said that the Turkish Armed Forces were fighting against some terrorist organizations along with the OSO. Look at the state the Turkish Armed Forces have fallen into. One day, the Turkish Armed Forces, not to mention what the state now calls a terrorist -- I don't mean because I have an objection to this -- by cooperating with the PYD and the YPG -- are kidnapping the Shah Temple of Solomon, and then a little time goes by, and the same Turkish Armed Forces are fighting against the Syrian Democratic Forces this time. What a diet of sauerkraut!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0157par0519	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0155par0520	This is a reflection of the state's failure, cheap, low-caliber foreign policy -- I don't even call it politics -- that the Turkish Armed Forces have fallen into the region. Racist rhetoric was mentioned. We need to say something here in a sentence. No one here can get anywhere by labeling each other, but if we're looking for racist rhetoric, I'd like to point out that one of them is a guru. He said to me, "I'm Georgian, and I'm proud of my Georgianism." Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0158par0524	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0159par0526	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Altay may not have understood my meaning. He used an expression, which I personally felt a bit sad.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0160par0528	No, brother.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0159par0529	So it might have been unsound. It would have been more elegant if he had said it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0160par0530	Correction, my point may not be understood, I'm correcting it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0159par0531	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0161par0532	Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0162par0534	Mr. President, thank you. I'm not going to be able to bend the sentence I'm saying to you to make Mehmet-chik fall under oath. I absolutely reject the words of our Mehmetchik, about the Turkish army. In this regard, in the interest of our national interests, in the framework of international law, we have done and will continue to do what is necessary in the constitutional framework to achieve our national goals.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0163par0537	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0164par0538	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0163par0540	If Mr. Akbasoglu is going to continue his national goals, then he can't do it anymore, because last night, we had a hot issue, a hot topic, a problem. The U.S. Senate has made a decision that includes a severe insult to this nation. You must not react politically to this decision... not to mention your speech here, our Deputy Group President has spoken as well. There's no immediate political response from the upper screen. I think you're expecting a warning from Trump about the ratio of your reaction, as far as Trump will allow. Turkey has not responded more politically to the unacceptable decision of the American Senate, and that shame is enough for you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0165par0543	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0166par0544	Mr. President, get them in the back so they can talk together.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0167par0545	Yeah, should we do that? Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0168par0547	Mr. President, when Mr. Akbasoglu is on duty, Parliament is not employed. I don't think the AK PARTY really wants the budget to go through!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0167par0548	So we've been following arguments for a long time; I respect these arguments, but the same things are being talked about, which is a waste of time. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0169par0551	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, as you know, a decision had been made in the House of Representatives, and with a joint statement here, we all condemned the matter, and our government's officials made a clear statement about it. This issue has been assessed yesterday by the entire Group's Deputy Presidents in the heat of the House, and the necessary responses have been expressed. For the record, I'd like to say once again that Mehmet Akif gave the best answer a hundred years ago. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0170par0555	But there's no word from the presidency, Mr. President, there's no word from the legislature.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0171par0556	This is Akbasoglu, Mehmet Akif..
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0169par0557	With the spirit of that Kuvasimilli, we hold and shout the feelings and thoughts of a hundred years ago, the same as the nation and the state. To the shameless face of the master! Spit out their promise never to be trusted! See the mascara creature called civilization: Spit on his masked conscience, spit on him!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0172par0562	These are stories...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0169par0563	We consider the U.S. Senate's decision to be no more and we spit on it. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0173par0566	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0174par0567	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0173par0569	Mr. President, we don't expect a decision -- God rest his soul -- but a reflex from Recep Tayyip Erdogan to honor this nation, this Parliament. We're waiting for him to show it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0175par0571	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit02spe0174par0572	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0174par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 The commission is in place.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0176par0054	You don't have a minister.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0174par0055	Look, don't fall into the mouth of Tanal. Be careful, Mr. Secretary. In turn, it belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Nusrettin Kâtin. Here you go, Mr. Gamein.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0177par0059	Mr. President, we're discussing the central management budget for 2020. I'd like to say a few words about the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration. To tell you the truth, there are no projects that operate in accordance with the purpose of the DAP, nor the purpose of the GAP. In the course of time, the people of the region and we bear witness. The ambitious goals these projects show are not only limited to dams, hydropower plants, irrigation structures and physical investments, but also to improve the economic structure, improve revenue levels, reduce the income difference between these regions and other regions, increase efficiency and employment opportunities in the rural area, efficient use of regional resources, economic growth, social stability and even the incentives of exports. However, the two fundamental wrong policies followed failed these projects, so to speak, gave birth to mountain rats. Why? First of all, the state's security policies in the Kurdish and Kurdish issue forced the people of the region to emigrate. Mera and plateaus were banned, people were cut off from production; people were imposed on village rangers, not agriculture and livestock. Millions of people have been dispossessed by the most destructive neoliberal policies of capitalism, a second system of systematic exploitation. Small producers and farmers have either become seasonal workers in the urban slums or raised an army of unemployed. Based on the Agriculture and Forestry Ministry's budget for 2020, there's a budget that's free from the crisis that it's in, and unfortunately, the DAP and the GAP will continue to remain on paper as dysfunctional projects. The GAP was a project founded in 1989 on the basis of the Prime Minister. The length of this project was fifteen years, but 30 years later, it was still 80 per cent of the electricity and 20 per cent of the irrigation. However, this project had a mission based not only on domestic investments but also on exports abroad. As for the DAP, the operating report of a project with an eight-year term is just field visits, meetings with research and practice units, and workshops and technical trips. Consider a number of projects in the 2018 activity report: The 947th Anniversary of the Malazzirt Victory, Memorial Events, Mush. Two: the Cheesemakers' Market Editing Project, Van. Three: Project to Enlightenment Country Infrastructure, Bitlis. Four: The Historical Cinema Uphill Project, Bitlis. Five: The Arabgir Kashgaloglu Mansion Project, Malatya. Six: the Püturge Historical Homes Street Health Project, Malatya. Seven: DAP-TANAP Drinking Support Program, Ardahan. It is clear that these activities and projects have nothing to do with any activity involving the main scope of the DAP. Because these studies are the services that can be performed within the subsidiaries of the subsidiary, the municipal authorities and municipalities. When we look at the use of this budget, there's no DAP, there's no GAP. This budget is no longer the budget of the DAP and the GAP, but is essentially the budget of AKP and its supporters and large ranchers! In response to the abandonment of traditional production in Turkey's agriculture, international companies have taken control of inputs such as fertilizer, diesel, medicine and seeds, which are considered inexhaustible for industrial agriculture, the search for a palliative solution to the agricultural crisis that we are entering today, rather than to solve the crisis.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0178par0065	Pack it up...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0177par0066	Therefore, in the relationship of production and consumption in Turkey's international capital-dominated agriculture, in which the labor of farmers is exploited and the consumption is largely shaped by finance, capital, food security, food sovereignty, human health, agriculture, seasonal agricultural workers, small family farmers are not in this budget. This budget is not the budget of workers, peasants, tradesmen, pensioners, women and youth. This is not a budget that stops unemployment, poverty, bankruptcy and suicides. This budget is the budget of AKP and its supporters; it is the budget of international monopoly, war industry, military bureaucracy and police state. A country where even a scientist leaves his country, a country's opposing political brain is threatened by prison or prison, there is no talking about a democratic, egalitarian budget in that country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This budget is a budget that threatens Turkey's near future and leads Turkey to war. This budget is a war budget. I salute all my people who watch over us with love. We've said no to this budget from the start. There is no democracy and equality in this budget; there will be more prisons, more detentions, more exiles. That means more scientists are going abroad. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0179par0076	Members of parliament, according to the Constitution, the division of Turkey is based on the provinces. It is against our Constitution to use a definition outside the definitions of our constitution. Turkey doesn't have a region called Greece. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 In turn, it belongs to İzmir MP Murat Çepni. Here you go, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0180par0131	Thank you, Mayor. The General Assembly and our valued people, yes, I have made a commitment to the DOC - the East Black Sea Development Project. The DOC and the East Black Sea are just another side of the medallion. Before we go in there, we need to take a look at the model in Turkey, the system itself, which we need to apply for absolute and absolute use during our discussion of the East Black Sea. Now, we've been dealing with ministries here for days; energy, Justice, Culture and Tourism, Environment and Urbanism and so on. In fact, it's important to note that all of these ministries have turned into palace appliances and have become departments of marketing companies. So this process is conducted: the project that was drawn in the palace -- for example, the planning of the Ministry of Energy -- we're dealing with a model where those who object were tried to be silenced by the Justice Department, and the Ministry of Interior, through law enforcement, tried to silence the objections. Their common motto is national. But what it's like, this whole community, anti-natural politics, economics, politics, can be carried out on a recipe for a national interest with nothing national in it, with no public, working class, no labor. For example, yesterday and the day before, the Minister of Culture and Tourism and Minister of Energy and Natural Resources spoke here. Now, I asked the Minister of Culture and Tourism a question. He himself, of course, spoke like the CEO of a marketing company, and we didn't hear a word out of him except that he was selling money. However, culture is the historically expressed state of a society's entire savings. So, in a geography, the Minister of Culture's basic duty, yes, is to protect, protect, and develop these historical deposits. In this case, for example, I asked him about Hasankeyf. Hasankeyf is a twelve thousand-year-old world legacy that contains hundreds of thousands of artifacts and has historically come to this day. I asked him, he didn't answer because it's being sacrificed to a power plant based on a security policy. Now, yesterday, the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources gave a speech. It's very interesting that you probably didn't miss it either. There, he gave a response to criticism about natural destruction, an imaged response, he said: "Look, this is the old one, which is the shaved mountain, and the new one is greenened." He says: "Be patient a little bit, these places will be green after a while. We've been saying something for months, but for months, all ecology organizations, all citizens, all citizens, in the area where it happened, all citizens say, "We are dying. We are dying. In Turkey, we are dying. Now, we have that understanding. Now, here comes the East Black Sea Development Project. Now, I'm a Rizeli, and as a Black Seaman, I'm one of those people who goes through this very deeply. Now, of course, after the 80s, the process of exporting state-controlled local resources through private companies to capital monopolyes began, with the spread of neoliberal policies, privatisation policies. In this process, there is an explanation of the DOCAP, where it describes in its reports that international capital itself is not about trade, not about trade, such as tourism, but about ownership of the country's physical capital -- see, this is important -- that it wants to benefit from its purchase -- the basis of politics, rather than tourism -- they express to themselves that the resources, the resources, the land, are the aggression to capital. Now, we need to make a special stop on the Green Road Project under the DOC. The Green Road is a project that covers the provinces of Samsun, the Army, Giresun, Tripoli, Artvin, Rize, Bayburt, and this project is a project that is 2,600km long, connecting the plateaus. 1,000 kilometers of new roads, 1,600 kilometers of renovated roads, and 500 kilometers of concrete roads. Now, it's defined as 33 tourist centers and five cultural tourism development areas. Again, the Tenth Annual Development Plan and the Tourism Special Entity Commission Report are also in sources where it will be opened to tourism, with incentives, with agreements, with Arab capital, and with development of the region. Now I would like to briefly address our people about the losses of this project, the Black Sea people: look, 37 percent of this region is rich in flora and fauna, so it is numbered in the world. There are 36 containment fields here. Again, the mountains, the sources of water... now, the Black Sea, you know, is a region where the streams are desertized by the HES projects. Thus, the floods, which we describe as unexpected natural events, created by global warming, are happening, the landslides are happening. Now, the AKP's government finished the Black Sea Coast Road, cemented the beaches, and then turned the energy investment into an invasion of HES under the name "Energy." It's not enough, he's trying to eliminate the water supply left in the mountains with this project. Now, all the plateaus in the Black Sea have their way. The distance of 2,600 kilometers -- as I pointed out in the beginning -- is 500 kilometers of concrete. These areas are also destroyed by means of animal transit, which means that, together with the means, people will go out on foot and feed the animals. So, at the same time, it's going to cause heavy rains and landslides again. At the same time, this area, you know, is the only area in the world where tea and tea are produced without chemical use. That's, of course, a rare quality indeed. So, along with this project, small manufacturers who will also have to produce chemicals with the decay of the tissue. Again, this is 73 percent of the nut... look, the hive contains 12 percent of its existence. The average slope in the region is 74 percent. Thus, in a land with a 74% slope, the road to be made in the region will naturally lead to thousands, millions of tons of waste lying on the ground. Of course, the consequences, I guess, are for all of us. Tourism is already common in the region, so there's already one tourism in the region. But new roads are built in the name of tourism. In fact, this tourism is exactly like this: I mean, with the facilities established by opening the plateaus to rich companies, to rich people, where tourism will actually be transformed into a whole rich tourism, such as luxury hotels, AVMs, shopping malls, gas stations and so on. One of the biggest handicaps here is that the crossroads will be over. So in our historical culture of pedestrianism, in the Black Sea, people come out at certain times with their animals. They come from the four sides of the land, and they go out on foot, and they are cattle and horons in it, and they come together, and they become brothers, and they yearn for one another. So this is also an attack on the culture of the Black Sea people because this rich tourism will naturally dynamite the natural life there, the natural cultural structure there. The region has no financial benefits from this project because the entire project will be carried out through luxury facilities. People will come in buses or come in helicopters and leave, so the city has no chance of providing it with employment and no financial benefits. At the same time, we're dealing with a mera that once had over 40 million hectares, and today has fallen to 14 million hectares. Now, the Green Road Project has no CED report at the same time. And how did they do that? They don't need a CED report because they plan this place in 19 kilometers. Now we're asking from here? Who did you do that by asking? So you did such a project by asking who? Who gave you the go-ahead?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0181par0147	We asked the public.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0180par0148	You didn't ask the public, the only board you're asking about is the foreign companies you're dealing with. What's most common is Arab capital...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0182par0150	Wrap it up, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0181par0151	You don't know anything about it. That's where we live.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0180par0152	You don't live in the Black Sea, you live in glass houses. The people of the Black Sea, the people of the Black Sea, are in poverty. The Black Sea is migrating. Black Sea people's plateaus and meadows are contained. So all the region needs is a secure employment policy. I'd like to give you one last example: I'm a twin. The Twin Valley is a valley that you have not yet betrayed, as in Ayder. In the twindere -- I can tell you -- a nail has not been struck -- it has not been seen that an investment has been made, that a factory has not been built, but unfortunately now they have declared it a tourist zone, and we say, "Oh, wow." Unfortunately, the twin will be exposed to the plunder of AKP (AKP) and its supporting capital. Now, what we're saying is that the painting in the Black Sea is the same painting as the sum of Turkey, the other side of the medallion.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0183par0157	Wrap it up, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0180par0158	I'm picking it up. Yeah, and how does the Black Sea person approve of that? He doesn't approve because you poisoned the Black Sea people with racism and monotheism, condemned them to death, and you're trying to take them in by condemning them to death. The man of the Black Sea will continue to challenge you, as Mother Eve said in Cerattepe. This plunder and theft will continue to rebel against your policies, and your departure will surely be from the Black Sea. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0184par0164	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've said several times before. It's important, of course, that I respect all the statements our lawmakers have made, but I'm speaking from a point of view of time. If we work hard, we'll send a message in time, so five minutes is enough. I've said it before, sometimes a planned minute is more efficient than ten minutes. And when a congressman asks for a word, it hurts me personally that we don't. In that respect, I'd appreciate it, lawmakers. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 İstanbul MP Dilşat Canbaz Kaya is next in line.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0185par0217	I salute the General Assembly and all our people. We've been here for five days, discussing the budget, as you know. Someone's saying thank you, someone's talking about a very good, very good budget. Yes, I want to ask the entire General Assembly here for five days, who was this budget made for, and why was it made for? For example, are there women in it, young people? Are there workers, children, academics, science in there? We'd like to ask you again who it was made for, and I'd like to talk to you a little bit about it. Many fellow trustees spoke of it here; it was made for the palaces. They said, "It was made for the feasts." Yes, I agree, it's for palaces and kingdoms, because our working people are nowhere in this budget. Yes, and from here, I'd like to say something about perhaps great palaces, winters, summers, flying, floating palaces, but not small palaces: We saw it in Diyarbakir. Where did we see it? We saw it in Mardin. Where did we see it? We've seen these expenses in Van. When did we see it? Of course, we've seen it during trustees, we've seen small palaces. Yes, I'd like to stress that with these expenses. So, right here, we'd like to repeat again who the budget is for, where it's been spent, where it's been going. Today, in Diyarbakir, Mardin, during the trustee's term in Van, our co-Chair Selçuk President -- as you know -- I salute all of our prisoners from here, and I respectfully remind you again. So, here, just where do these budgets go? Where do we women go from the front? Are there women, young, children, workers, academics in the budget? Unfortunately, that's not there either. Well, the minimum wage, when the economic crisis is so deep, when there's so much, look, let's look at the budget by women. There are a lot of women who work in subcontractors, part-time, part-time. There are women who work in food to health, in leather textiles, but there are no women in this budget, no women's name, no women's identity, because there's nothing about women in this country. It's either violence or rape or prison. Just yesterday, as the Ministry of Women's Ministry, the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services was being discussed, our female friends made a promise to the ministries about women's murders. Yes, as they were talking around here, three women were slaughtered in the news, again slaughtered by the nearest men, again by the nearest men. Well, we know all this, but let's say something about what power looks like, how it does, what it does. The policies that protect the man continue, the courts are given good behavior reductions, the women who want a divorce, the settlement, the dismantling of their homes and homes. It is said that political prisoners are being held in open prisons while the killers are being held in safe prisons. You know, there was a Ceren Özdemir murder; it was on the news today, and I'd like to share it with you guys from here. What was it? The murderer of Ceren Özdemir was sent to a prison which he wanted today, and he went to prison, and said in the news made today; the murderer of Ceren Özdemir (Ceren Özdemir), who was murdered by a man who did not know him, says this: When I was brought to court, for my security reasons, he was taken to the court and this decision was made to be taken into custody. How quickly it's been decided, but a killer who thinks he's not in security can slaughter a woman he doesn't know in the middle of the street today. Here, today, when self-defense is applied to avoid death, they get aggravated prison sentences, for self-defense. One by one, there's a lot of names, and just to remind you, I'd like to talk about some women's massacres: Fatma Şengül, Emine Cloud, Ceren Damar, Shule Chet, and the latest Ceren Özdemir, at least the names left in our memories. So, what happens to women who make a noise about this injustice, who say to women killers, 'Stop!', 'We want to live.' In areas where law enforcement attacks, arrests and arrests are not enough, they are exposed to sexual and physical violence in prisons. Just recently, as you all know, at Bakırköy Prison, they wanted to get an illegal DNA sample from Esin Kavruk, while attacking him and our other female friends in the ward, physically and sexually. Again, not too far, let's go last week. Because we don't want to die, we want to live! There's this dance protest that started in Chile, and spread all over the world because we're in the fields, everywhere we go, we're saying our motto about women's murders with slogans; this is the result of a different protest. Yes, it was done in many parts of the world, but in Turkey, unfortunately, this protest faced an attack, while six of our female friends were taken into custody in reverse handcuffs. Yesterday, the same action took place in Ankara's Güvenpark, and our friends, women, were handcuffed and dragged to the ground and taken into custody. So, what is the cause of so much fear and anxiety, and in private, what is a front for women? Because we've been fighting for women's rights and equality for centuries. We have these challenges, these gains that we're building, and we think that you're more afraid of these gains than we are, and we see that fear when we look at the current budget proposals. None of the budgets we're voting for here today are budgets based on social gender. Once again, we say we certainly don't accept budgets as women, which block women's employment, which allow them to become dependent on men. From here -- it's true -- for every right that hasn't been given -- women, as they have been for centuries, struggle to get their rights, and we will continue to fight. Today, the injustice of income between the rich and the poor, the laborer and the patron, the producers and the exploiters is deepening. Turkey ranks second in Europe in the inequality of income distribution between the richest 20 per cent and the poorest 20 per cent. The budget we're talking about today does not include an offer to address this injustice. We're dealing with a budget law that ignores the problems of the laborers, passes on their expectations and demands. We say that this budget, created by women, workers, workers, children, refugees, disabled people, is not the budget of women, workers, workers, workers, children, refugees, the budget of the disabled, who live under the age of starvation, who don't sacrifice a little bit of their own luxury while advising them to be grateful. Let's rearrange this budget. We are not slaves who burn themselves in front of parliament." "Let us listen to the cries of screaming construction workers, who drink cyanide because of poverty and commit suicide. Let us prevent the deaths of workers who are forced to work because of poverty at construction sites and factories. Let's set up a budget for the 13-year-old Berivan Karakeçi, who was sent to die in Antalya with his family as an agricultural worker, with the ambition of his boss to make more profit. Let's ask the public for a budget that is not satisfied with money, that is mauled during the AKP period, not a budget that fills the vaults of subcontractors, but a budget that favours workers. Let's give up these unfair economic policies that make the rich richer, the poor poor poor poorer. We want a budget for a comprehensive development of the right to education in the native language, equal, without money, in which workers and workers will live in a way that is not minimal, but in the honor of people. So we're asking for a budget with women, children, academics, science, disabled people, refugees at the center. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0186par0231	İstanbul MP Emine Gülizar Emecan on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Emecan.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0187par0234	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Industry and Technology budgets on the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Bill, and I salute you all. Dear friends, the year 2020 seems to be a year for our people to feel the economic crisis even more. A short budget assessment has been revised that the budget deficit, envisioned for 2019 at 80.6 billion euros, reached 100.7 billion euros in the first ten months of 2019, will be $125 billion at the end of the year. It is also clear that this gap, reduced by the transfer of backup coins and profits from the Central Bank, is actually much greater. This fact suggests that the 138.9 billion-dollar deficit targeted in the 2020 budget cannot be achieved today. The most defining element of the current economic order is that the public, private sector, and citizens have become a debt-based, debt-based structure. In 2002, a total debt stockpile of 130 billion dollars increased to $447 billion in the first half of 2019. So basically, public debt, citizen debt, corporations owe. Mortgages under surveillance for not being paid in time have reached $141 billion in November and set a new record, dear friends. In short, after 17 years, Turkey has become a risky and unreliable economy in the world; that's what you've done, dear friends. So, how did we end up like this? Consider what is needed for the development and growth of a country. First of all, having a strong democracy, having citizens feel equal before their own law, having a fair judicial system, having completed their reforms in education, focusing on high-profit production, the balanced budget, the integrity of their institutions; a policy that supports, not a prudish policy is based on a policy that looks out for the benefit of the country, but in 17 years, all of these things have been done the opposite. Instead of producing it for 17 years, you put the economy on the construction industry and the service sector, selling its assets under the name ▪ specialization of its assets, dear friends. You used the outside source that came into the country, not the public, not the production, but the non-profit capital. You've reduced the per capita income from around 12,000 dollars to 8,000 dollars rapidly. Today, thanks to you, the hunger limit for four families increased to $2.625 in October and the poverty limit for 9.694. 9.6 million people have to live on less than 673 TL. Dear lawmakers, in our country where further democratic lectures have been made, I will present you with some more economic data: our country is ranked as the 109th of the 126 countries in which it is included in measuring the rule of law in the Index of Law. On the basis of limiting the government's power, 126 countries are still ranked 123. Under it are Cambodia, Nicaragua, and Venezuela. In the index, where basic rights are evaluated, Turkey is ranked 122, and Iran is next in line. These are just a few economic indexes that we have to be on top of to get out of the crisis. Look, I say economics because the rule of law and democracy have become economic indicators for us now. Otherwise, it seems impossible for the foreign capital to come to our country, as well as the investment that we need to collect. As a result, foreign capital began to flee, much less to Turkey. In August 2018, after entering the new system, there were 15 billion outsources out of our country, so the world didn't trust the one-man regime, dear friends, the system you built collapsed. With this regime, unemployment increased, debt increased, inflation increased, living cost increased, institutions collapsed, education ended; poverty, poverty began to take lives and hurt. Dear lawmakers, dear friends, imagine an industrial policy that can't cure unemployment; it forces engineers, teachers, to look for jobs in areas where they don't graduate; it still doesn't give jobs guaranteed education to technical upper secondary schools. We can't find jobs for every university graduate in this country, while the shame of brain migration is happening. 911,000 collegeers can't offer a single hope, a single hope, with this budget. Today, it is you, dear friends, who are responsible for this lost generation of 15 to 29-year-olds from every three years old in Turkey, which is not one..... in education or employment, but 5 million,600,000, that is the wrong policy of power. Today, Turkey seems to continue to decline, decline, and decline, of course, its share in the total production of the industry in Turkey. Due to the recession, the imports of raw materials are falling and the trade is falling, and our import numbers are falling because production is at the bottom. Of course, the ruling owners express it in the form of pride. The capacity use of the manufacturing industry remains at 70 per cent, indicating that this low level of investment will continue in the coming months. And there's an index called the Misfortune Index, dear friends. It's an index of economists showing how people are overwhelmed by unemployment and expense. Do you know how much Turkey's score reached in August 2018, when it was under 20 in December 2016? This score has been scored to 36, and it has not come down from that date to below 29 · Global Voices Turkey is better off in the world than Venezuela, Argentina and South Africa alone. This index shows your success in the economy, dear friends. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Commerce is an executive organisation that directly affects almost every part of society in terms of its capacity and function. Many important issues in the economy include import addiction, foreign trade deficit and low acceleration in exports, irregularities in the food supply chain, increasing quality in customs services, await a solution under your Ministry's roof, Mr. Secretary. When we look at some data, the number of companies established in 2018 was 83,409, and the number of companies established as of 2019 remained at 59,361, the number of companies that were the center of exports' arteries and production has decreased by 30,000 per year. Our share in the world's trade will never rise above 1%. The export target, set as $500 billion in 2023, seems unlikely to be achieved at our destination. Dear friends, Mr. Ministers, it is not possible for Turkey to gain advantage over global competition with this current political approach. For such results to be changed in a positive way, the principle of democracy and rule of law must first be rebuilt; the habit of ignoring laws, rules, and prohibitive mentality must be abandoned immediately. We also need to increase production, employment and per capita income. The government's task is to create an investment environment for investment, for growth, that the employer can rely on; and if they are done, employment growth will come on its own. The second way to increase productivity is to bring in new technologies, create new technologies, and use them properly, dear friends. Well, here's where RD investments matter. R&amp;gt; R&amp;gt; R&amp;gt; R&amp;&amp;gt; R&amp;gt; R&amp;&amp;gt; R&amp;&amp;gt; The R&amp;amp;gt; R&amp;&amp;gt; R&amp;&amp;&amp;gt; The R&amp;&amp;gt;H investments are investments that result in the long term, and are capable of creating major impacts on the growth and development of countries. The growth model of export-based growth, which has been reported over the years, is not going to happen unless we produce high-tech products that are deeply concerned about the two ministries. According to OECD data, exports of high-tech products and processes dropped from 8 per cent 15 years ago to 3 per cent now. The share from the general budget for RD spending is 2.5-5% in developed countries, while Turkey is only 1 per cent in only 1 per cent. With such an RD share, it is not possible for us to develop our technology. But you're bragging, unfortunately, with a 1% share of RD. Dear friends, if we think that the 2020 budget is a debt and interest payment budget, as a result of the wrong policies, I regret to say, Mr. Ministers, it is unlikely that you will be able to implement what you're aiming at with the budgets set aside for you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0188par0253	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0187par0254	Thank you. The two departments must work in co-ordinates to properly assess these scarce RD resources. There are a number of irregularities in the Court reports, including the institutions of the two ministries; these irregularities need to be dealt with, and the shadows related to these irregularities on the ministries need to be removed, and we will be followers of them. And finally, I would like to say that in the 2020 budget, workers, farmers, pensioners, women, children, the disabled themselves, unfortunately, will not be available. This budget will go down in history as interest, debt and advocacy budget. That's why I say no to the 2020 budget and salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0189par0261	It belongs to Adana MP Orhan Sumer Bey.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0190par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Commerce of the 2020-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. We're discussing the budget of the Ministry of Economy, which is a major two major ministries, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, and the United Ministry of Economy. Of course, it will not be possible to assess the budget of a ministry responsible for customs and domestic and foreign trade in a five-minute speech. I'd like to address the irregularities of the Court reports on the Ministry of Commerce, before we go into some matters that we consider important and directly affect our citizens' daily lives. On the basis of my being a member of the CIT Commission and on the basis of the budget, I reviewed several Court reports. We all know what pressure the Court is under. Even reports made under duress show that there are serious difficulties, irregularities, shortcomings in the functioning of almost every institution. It can't be corrected against the Court's warnings. Most of the answers the relevant institutions give to the Court are far from serious and unresolved. All of this shows how public institutions are run. In the Court report, there are eight indicators that do not affect the audit findings. They're all important to each other, and we can't pass up any of them. I'll count some of these: the lack of monitoring from the assets accounts of the treasury deposits used by Tahsisli, the lack of accounting of the amount used by the Ministry of Trade, the fact that the amount used in the joint account of exporting units is used by the Ministry's finances, the lack of accounting of additional customs taxes and fines, the fact that there is a private company account of the proceeds set up for the ministry, and that the expenditures made in this account are kept in violation of the rules of the legislation, and that the government's government's law should not be used in accordance with the laws of the law. Accounting is essential to trade. There will be no trade unaccounted for, nor will there ever be a miscalculation, an incomplete trade ministry. Can you believe such a ministry can work really efficiently? Members of parliament, business and operations related to our trade and artists are also part of the Ministry of Commerce's mandate, authority and responsibility. We're constantly bringing up the problems of this division with solution proposals, but they're still insisting on unresolvedness. We're always saying that tradesmen and artists are the cure for unemployment in creating jobs, and with products they produce, it's our guarantee against crisis. According to data from the Turkish Traders and Artists Confederacy, the number of businesses opened during the January-October period of 2019 declined by 0.5 according to the same period of 2018. In the first ten months of 2018, the number of businesses closed 87,258 increased by 4.3 per cent, reaching 91,040 in 2019. Unfortunately, the situation in my constituency, Adana, is no different from the situation in Turkey. In the last decade, 25,000 tradesmen have closed their doors, much of which have been in recent years, and 55 large factories, which have pulled the burden of the employment of Adana, have, unfortunately, locked the door. The tradesmen who were able to survive have increased their costs, and, unfortunately, their income has declined. To give an example, a supermarket has been opened to almost every neighborhood, every street. These market chains, controlled by capital groups close to power, have made the grocery store uncle in our neighborhood unable to live. Now we're going to study the law and breathe into the grocery stores and our little business. You say, "You're too late." On this occasion, we repeat our proposal to establish a trade ministry that will organise the work and operations of all our tradesmen and artists. We told you not to crush the shop against the malls, but what did you do? There were 361 malls throughout Turkey in 2014, which is now up to 432, and unfortunately, it's increasing. (Cheers and applause) You have closed down three major factories in Adana, which employ tens of thousands of people, which have greatly valued the city's economy, and three large, new AVMs were replaced. This, in fact, exposes your economic management, not the society that produces it, but the society that consumes it. Members of parliament, a new arrangement for this sector has become mandatory, and the danger is too great; the smartphones in each of our pockets have now become a shopping platform. Virtual shopping sites are growing like an avalanche. In 2010, the number of online transactions was 7,900,000, and today, unfortunately, that number increased to 51,600,000. In 2010, the purchase amount of $1 billion and $300 million has now increased to $16 billion to $3 million.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0191par0273	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0190par0274	You've shut down factories that produce value, employ, and replaced them with fancy malls. This industry that exceeds its feeding point is now about to surrender to virtual shopping. It is now a necessity to take precautions before Turkey becomes a mall dump. With an increase in online shopping, there is an increase in campaigns that deceive consumers. I'm saying the Ministry of Commerce should take a more effective precaution. Unfortunately, we'll say no to this budget. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0192par0279	It belongs to Hatay MP Ismet Tokdemir. Here you go, Mr. Tokdemir.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0193par0282	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Republican People's Party Group regarding the 2020 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2018 Central Management Accounting Law Proposal. I salute your high council. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The power that needs the seed of Israel, the anguus of Latin America, the hay of Bulgaria, puts the budget of the Hellal Accredition Agency in front of us today as one of its budget pencils. Where's the Turkish stuff, where's the local production? You destroyed them all during your reign. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the institution was founded in 2018 by the President's decree to promote legal fitness assessment agencies, to ensure that they operate according to national and international standards. Turkey is the only institution in the country that has the authority to provide the legal accreditation service. It was founded in 2018, but there were no applications from 2018 to November 2019, but in two years the spending of $8.8m has now become a ban.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0194par0288	Haram!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0193par0289	On the day he was founded, he did not open a diplomatic mission abroad, nor did he give a license. So, what did he do? After it was established in 2018, five board members, four heads of the department, the Hellal Accreditation Foundation, with 50 personnel, was assigned a 1,007 square metre service building, and $3,150,000 were spent on the service building. The 2020-year budget of the institution that exists on paper is also increased by 8.1 per cent, which is genuine and unrealistic and also does not offer any services. What's important is to protect and encourage the local manufacturer, who's producing in accordance with our religious beliefs and who's not threatening public health. The GMO problem is a matter that needs to be resolved before you give it a good certificate. On the one hand, you will not show the necessary challenge with GDO, but you will say, "Hellal certificate." It's a lame understanding. The issue of being granted a legal food certificate in Turkey has yet to reach the desired goal. Brazil and New Zealand are coming at the top of the world's most helal food certificates, while 99% of them are Muslims, so far, unfortunately, they've never provided a legal food certificate. Dear lawmakers, we see within the parameters of the world's volume of commerce that a full mobilisation of the state and private sector of the food is required. This campaign must be thought of as a campaign for both domestic and export. Turkey's trade share in Islamic geography is increased. In addition, the introduction of the helal certificate not only in the food sector, but also in textiles, medical, cosmetics, and pharmacy products should be opened in sync and parallel with the world, and the private sector should be encouraged in this area. In view of the heavy materials of the Hellal Accreditation Institution established under the current Ministry of Commerce, the former Economy is clearly not able to meet the expectations of Muslims. Is this institution, founded in large numbers, just to give someone a position, a position, or abuse? [[Applause from CHP rows]] The honoured ones say to every servant of yours, "May Allah grant him food, lawful food, and lawful thinking, and unlawful thinking, and the freeing of a slave." I salute your honoured assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0195par0297	The order is for the MP Tahsin Tarhan Bey. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0196par0300	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology. I salute the General Assembly. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Industry and Technology budget, which has 7.9 billion Turkish liras in 2020, is focused on ignoring the problems of industry, not on solving its problems. As automotive, chemistry, agriculture, production industry collapses, we wonder what the Ministry of Industry and Technology is doing as the defense industry's eyeballs go after Qatars, while dozens of firms leave Turkey for the price of input and go to Bulgaria, Romania and Poland. Halfway through 320 organised industrial zones in Turkey, there is no gas, no way for a transfer network, no port connection, no access to the rail system, production has stopped; factories in organised industrial areas are either for sale or for rent. Mr. Secretary, the industry is seriously ill, and you're always writing aspirin. (CHP) Now, the industry doesn't need painkillers; it needs surgery, surgery. Dear lawmakers, the road to Turkey's economic development is to produce and increase industrial investments. In order to produce, research requires access to information. However, we don't invest in RD; in the 2020 budget, the RD share is 1.4 per cent, including private sector investments. While the world debates the Industrial 4.0 Revolution, we don't invest as much in research, science, technology as a phone brand. Turkey is the 24th in 42 countries investing in RD. How are you going to catch up on the world without investing in RD, producing technology, exporting science? We can't keep scientists in our country to invest in R&D, to do scientific work, to make discoveries, let alone invest in R&lt;/i&gt;. Brain migration is increasing by 22 percent every year, and we can't keep our well-trained, well-trained young people in our country. Mr. President, there is no science, no technology, no production in the 2020 budget; there is no industry, no export; there is no pensioner, no student, no minimum wage; most importantly, there is no public, there is nothing done for the public. (HPP) What's in this budget is that there's tax cuts from the pensioner, pensioner, teacher, worker's salary, payment on the manufacturer's back. There are provisions that bring wealth to those who disregard the Public Contraction Act, and to those who support construction networks. There are practices that ignore court reports, that plunder the environment. This budget includes debt to poor citizens, side-by-side tenders, cost-loads to the manufacturer, dozens of taxes to the citizens, and expenses to the court's reign. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the AKP doesn't understand the citizens' problems; they understand construction budgets, mortars, cement, natural slaughters, rants, capital. They can't do it themselves, they sell it the do-and-do way, they pocket the commission. For this reason, the 2020 budget is free of right, law, justice, even if it pleases the promoter, the broker, the court cabinet. In the past, there was always talk of belt tightening, not the AKP power belt, but the people's throats. I declare that I will vote against this budget and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0197par0310	In turn, it belongs to Mr. Mahir Poland, our Ýzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Polat.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0198par0313	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Commerce budget. I salute you all. Those eyes in the last look remain in our mind. I remember with respect that Erdal Eren, who was killed by fascist coups thirty-nine years ago, had grown old and been slaughtered by fascist coupters, was still seventeen years old. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, if we're going to talk about the loss of millions that are reflected in the Court's reports but not in the public budget, without regulations and regulations, the problems with customs here, not five minutes, but days will not be enough for us. However, I'd like to point out a few important issues: the number of tradesmen that shut down in 2018 is 106,167 per cent higher than the previous year. Again, at the same time 12,564 companies were closed, the number of companies accepted was 1.549. These shouldn't be just numbers for us -- the point of the Turkish trade -- we have to remember that there's a life for those who work there and run it. Without a healthy production structure, we can't talk about a healthy and continuous trade. In agriculture, as a result of wrongs and lack of control, we see that our products -- as we see today in pomegranates -- come back from the Russian gate or from other countries for health reasons, in this sense, the Ministry lacks its control duty; these products are garbage. In particular, one of the essential stones in the countryside is co-operativeization. A well-supported production co-op will reverse the migration of agricultural production co-ops, as will prevent social tissue from decaying in cities that are migrating, and will ensure that the urban population will be fed in places where people were born, as well as in good and healthy food. As for co-optarianism, the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality must be studied well by the Ministry as a role model because Tire milk, Bayındir flowering, and almond co-operativeism can be taken as a role model there. Looking at the Ministry of Commerce website, I find it difficult to understand why data on co-op has not been shared in the past four years, one of the incumbent issues. If data inputs had been healthy, especially after the March 31st elections, we would have seen an increase in co-operatives in agricultural production co-ops in co-ops, following the projects by Izmir Metropolitan Mayor Tunç Soyer and Republican People's Party municipalities for co-operativeism. Local executives from İzmir Metropolitan Municipality and Republican People's Party work on supporting cooperatives, but the Ministry is not working. What local governments can do, their resources are up to a point, and the ministry's resources are much greater. To satisfy poverty in the countryside, agricultural production cooperatives must be transformed into a state policy. Because of the lack of health production planning in our country and the high cost of input, we've been able to import our basic foods from Syria, a country that's been struggling with civil war for eight years, sacrificing some of its citizens to war, giving some of them refugees. We imported our potatoes, onions, garlic, olive oil and dried beans last year. They came to our country without any foreign trade norms. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, this week is Indian property week. No one in your government ever said anything about being domestic and national.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0199par0323	U.S.A.V.s, S.A.L.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0198par0324	We used to take a piece of Sumerbank with local food while friends in our age group went to school on Indian Property Week.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0199par0325	Now we're taking drones, we're taking SIHA.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0198par0326	Now, in Sumerbank's place, the wind blows. No local food, I'm afraid. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the scope of the only state-sponsored branding, TURQUALTY, is clear, its aim is to support Turkish goods in the international market and to increase its value. Again, as far as the Court reports on TURQUALTY, unfortunately, it says that foreign companies, other than Turkish firms, are supported. Dear friends, again, the way that the Competitive Institution, which has a very important place in the extroduction of the Turkish economy and boosting the competitiveness of Turkish industry, can carry out its regulation function as it should, is to maintain organic and functional independence. If that's what we want, we have to ensure the independence of the Competition Foundation under constitutional guarantee. One way to ensure the independence of the institution is to replace politicians' men with righteous people in the institution.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0200par0331	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0198par0332	This board, which has the right to independent control - is now governed by a political reflex. Dear friends, as a result, our food has been destroyed from Syria, our weapon from Qatar, our native and nationality. This country needs to be managed in a more transparent, accountable, accountable, institutionalized manner. So your end has come, and it's time for the Republican People's Party to rule because Turkey deserves good governance. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0201par0336	In order, it belongs to Libzon MP Ahmet Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0202par0339	I have made a commitment to the head of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration. I salute our General Assembly and our great nation. In 2002, when the AKP came to power, the number of members of Tripoli fell to eight, then to six. You know why he fell, fellas? Because the Black Sea has constantly migrated, our population has waned. Many of our people had to leave their loved ones' land and leave their homes for the cause of their inability to find work and get along. You haven't opened a business in your 17 years of power in the Black Sea. You've made no investments in production and employment. What happened in Tripoli, you either sold it or closed it or moved it elsewhere. You said "Courtner Urban Transformation Project" (It's been ten years, you haven't been able to move a step. You said the South Environment Road, you said the railroad, you said. You just said, you promised, but you didn't. With imaginary projects, empty words, you have victimized and deceived Turkey and our Tripoli. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're very good at this. You gave me a raise, you called it an upgrade, like you're making fun of people. You squandered their resources, you reduced their resources, you introduced them for the first time in our history to potatoes, onion tails, and then you could say that the poor poor poor poor man went into these tails to buy a dollar cheaper price of potatoes and onions. By leaving our homeland unclaimed, you kidnapped Solomon's Shah Temple and tried to sell this shameful ruin as victory. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've officially given the right to operate our Tank Palette Factory for 25 years and to a foreign partner company, you could call it privatisation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You even tried to get math to lie. You raised everything, you doubled the prices, and then you could go out and say, "Inflation fell into one house." You said no money. You only gave the pensioners a 5% raise. While our pensioner was starving, our pensioner couldn't make a living, while our own children, our own young people, were unemployed, you were able to brag about helping the Syrians with $40 billion. You've always made mistakes, mistakes, ineptities, external powers. You didn't leave a rule in the country when even children had rules. You destroyed all the rules for your benefit. Your watery pool media made everything look like a rose in the country, ignored the problems, ignored the facts, but they're not. (Applause from CHP rows) Unemployment, corruption, poverty, injustice everywhere, the country can't be ruled, our economy is in great distress, there's fire in the kitchens, our money is constantly losing value. Look, I'm going to show you an example: this is $200, friends, money that most of our citizens don't have in their pockets today. You remember when this 200 TL went into circulation in 2009. In 2009, when these 200 euros were available, we could get 90.6 euros with this 200 euros, and today we can get 30.9 euros. So we have 59.7 euros in ten years gone.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0203par0349	We dropped those six zeros, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0202par0350	Yeah, look, guys, you can say: "O European Union money can be valuable." There's Georgia, right next door to us; there's Georgia, and there's Georgia, and there's this 200-dollar supply, and we can get 222 Georgians in 2009, and now we can get 97.5.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0204par0351	Look at the buying power, the taking power, the taking power.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0205par0352	Is there any more buying power left?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0202par0353	Our 124.5s are melted friends, melted, melted friends.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0205par0355	Listen up, fellas.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0202par0356	Yes, if you'll listen, friends. My friends, with your incompetence, you've turned our money into stamps. Because you've finished production in this country. Look, I'm gonna show you guys another picture, take a good look at this picture, guys. (CHEERING) Take a good look at this photo, Mr. Secretary. Look what our unique leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has done with an orange. These oranges were brought from Italy in the 1930s, you know. Look what these oranges have become. Then, with these oranges, vaccines were made in the Aegean, Mersin, and Antalya, and produced.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0206par0360	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0202par0361	Then, with these oranges, the Russians who built the Alexanderun Iron and Steel Factory, the Nazilli Basma Factory, the Sumerbank Kayseri Bez Factory, the Bottleham Factory, the Aliga Rafinery, and many more of our factories were paid for. Thanks to these facilities that form the backbone of the Turkish industry, tens of thousands of our people have found work, food, dependency on the outside, and our country has survived millions of dollars of imports. Now, that's how domesticity works, that's how nationality is, by building factories, by producing factories. You've been in power for 17 years. Do you have an example like this, for God's sake? Do you have an example, friends?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0207par0362	Very, very...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0202par0363	Have you built a factory, a production facility? The way you're going, not the way you're going.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0208par0365	Go to Antalya.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0202par0366	By walking in the light of Ataturk, by learning the ways of Ataturk.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0209par0367	Ataturk isn't just CHP's, he's ours.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0202par0368	...the state that produces karma and national economies, the working nation, the powerful Turkey that rises on righteousness, divides with justice, we can rebuild it, and we can do that. It happens with brains, with science, with production, with nails.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0210par0369	With the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0202par0370	Unfortunately, right now, it's not the ones who nail the country, it's the ones who sell every nail that goes down. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's why we're going through all this trouble. You've come to power with 3Y. We'll finish poverty, corruption, and bans. You said, "Unfortunately, you've finished the land and the nation." But it's not going to go away, it's going to change the way things are. You came to power with 3Y, and you will take the covenant of the people. I say hello to that day. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0211par0376	You'll wait a long time!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0212par0377	You'll wait a long time!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0213par0378	In order to speak, Şanlıurfa MP St. Aydınlık. Here you go, Aziz.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0214par0381	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget for 2020, the current GAP Regional Development Administration. Congressmans, there are thousands of spoken words about the Southeast Anatolia Project, but the large amounts for crazy projects do not leave for the country's development. When the GAP is finished, it is known not only to the southeast, but to all who will be able to develop and economically relax, but to use resources is, of course, a matter of choice. I regret to inform you that in every decision you've made in the name of our country, you've never listened to anyone but yourself. You don't hear people's voices from the House. You make mistakes because you still listen to yourself in matters that concern our nation. See, in the 21st century, Şanlıurfa, who plays a key role in the GAP, there are two or three hours of power outages on average. Because of your wrong and cheap policies, today Suruç Plain has turned into a swamp. There's no end to problems with Siverek, dear friends. This painting belongs to the rural neighborhoods of Siverek. In the 21st century, women, children carrying water on their asses, on their asses? You see this? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now I speak to your conscience: Let two or three hours, imagine that only one hour of water in your house has been cut, the electricity has been cut, and then you will understand Siverekli, and the Glorious. Look, what does one of our chiefs have to say? Our drinking water project has been cancelled seven times, he says. We also made our way through the village with the money we collected from the villagers. No one hears our voices, no one sees our faces. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to show you another photograph. This photo is from Ceylanpınar, Viranşehir, and Siverek. In these photographs, look at the struggle our children made in Siverek, in Viranşehir, to get to school, isn't that a pity? Think of your own children instead of these children. I ask you: When the Metropolitan Law, issued in 2014, would it serve all the villages, and the cities would do all the service? With that law, you destroyed our village culture, you destroyed the peasant. The farmer's already miserable. You're saying that we've given this much support to our farmer, and we've given this much support. You're right, you've supported the farmer, but you thought that giving the farmer support was just a loan, and you thought that the farmer was alive with the loan you gave him, and you've been cut off from the people. The farmer is not living now; the farmer died a long time ago; you have read the farmer's Fatiha. You have no idea. I want to show you this painting, our farmer's electric bill. Dear friends, look, a bill is $265,868.88. If this bill is billed one day for 2020, it will be $313,860.65, and the farmer will pay $50,000 interest for one day. Members of parliament, because of the rise in input prices, the farmer was unable to pay the cost of profit, let alone profit, and the farmer was unable to pay the electricity debt. And as if that wasn't enough, you blocked the farmer because of his debt to the kind of support that's good for him. Mr. President always says Mr. Kemal, Mr. Kemal, tractor factories can't grow tractors for our farmer.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0215par0392	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0214par0393	Mr. President, these tractors you're talking about are no longer in the field, they're lying in warehouses and galleries in 81 provinces. Because of the foreclosure, the farmers, the merchants, the villagers, the industrialist's vehicles lie in the depository. Do you and your deputies know about this? I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0215par0396	The order belongs to Adıyaman MP Abdurrahman Tutdere. Here you go, Mr. Tutdere.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0216par0399	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration. I salute the high council and the nation who are watching us on their screens. Dear MPs, the East Anatolia Project covers 16 provinces. These are the provinces of Ardahan, Ağrı, Bayburt, Bayburt, Bingol, Bitlis, Elazığ, Erzurum, Erzum, the Silver House, Hakkari, İğdır, Kars, Malatya, Mush, Tunceli, Van and Sivas. When the East Anatolia Project is being conducted, the goal is to contribute to the socioeconomic development of this region, prevent human migration in this region, prevent migration from east to west; it is designed to do so. To carry out these projects and these goals, the East Anatolia Project was established in 2011 as head of the Regional Development Administration. The East Anatolia Project was formed as the head of the Regional Development Administration and then prepared the Action Plan for 2014 and 2018. There are projects in these action plans that will improve the region. This action plan includes 77 actions and 276 infrastructure projects. Has the President of Development Administration been able to carry out these actions with the budget he was given last semester? For this, it is wise to look at the Court's reports. When we look at the Court reports, 34.62 per cent of the actions were completed, and 45.17 per cent of the infrastructure projects were completed. Minister, why aren't these projects completed? Why aren't these projects completed because there's no money? Yes, we also understand from the money you spent on projects under the DAP during your administration in 2019. Look, you've put $2 in the 250-beds of Müsh State Hospital under the DAP. You spent $50 on the Erzincan Honey Dam. You've got $50 on the Bingöl Youth Watering Project. You've got $2 at the 250-bed Bingol State and Children's Hospital. You saved $3 on the Elazýg Kuzova Pumpage System. You put $20 on the Ardahan-Tiflis railway line. So the money you're spending, the budget you're spending, it's clear where you're bringing the country financially. As for projects, there's no money, but you're very good at finding money in other things. For example, when we look at the Court reports and look at the precise accounts of the palace for 2018 years, you can only spend $48 million on representation and introduction costs; you can spend $3 million on cleaning equipment; you can find $10 million on clothing, poverty and weirdness. There's money in this business, no money in Müsh Hospital. There is money in these works, no money in the roads, no money in the railways; it seems that your power does not save on dignity. He continues to work with understanding. Dear lawmakers, construction is growing quickly in a quiet place in the district of Ahlat of Bitlis, currently covered by the DAP. Is this construction a factory that will build the DAP? No. Is it a hospital built by Lake Van to treat people? No. This construction, palace construction, friends, palace construction, and you've invested $30 million in this construction, 30 million. (CHP rows) 3 TL to Mush State Hospital, 30 million to the palace; here's your power, here's your economy policy! Dear friends, your power has been quickly moving away from the rule of law, especially with its practices, with its actions lately. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to briefly remind you of the state of law from the people's bench. The legal state is the state that acts and acts in accordance with the law. The legal state is a state that respects human rights, protects and strengthens rights and freedoms. The legal state is a state open to judicial control, but despite the Constitutional Court's ruling in June at the Palace of Ahlat, you continue to build palaces without legal recognition. Here's your respect for the law, here's your respect for the Constitution, in this photograph, dear friends, valued lawmakers. The Constitutional Court's decisions bind and bind all public institutions according to our current Constitution. You seem to have forgotten the state of law, and you have forgotten the Constitution. It seems that you are not afraid of the Constitution, nor of the nation; but God says, "Fear God," and I salute your General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0217par0409	Karaman MP İsmail Atakan Üsver. Here you go, Mr. Ünver.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0218par0412	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the budget of the head of the KOP Development Administration, and I salute the High Council. Not much has changed in the KOP area since last year, and the projects in the region are endless. The story of the KOP is now back to the farmer's story. As the proverb says, they cut the farmer's belly open 40 next year, and the end of the projects in KOP is always next year, always next year. For example, Konya-Karaman's fast train line, Karaman's Environment Road, projects to water the Plains of Conium can't be finished. Agricultural activity is at a standstill due to water shortages in the KOP region, where Turkey's agricultural areas are five-to-one. For this problem to be resolved, water must be brought from sources outside the region to the region, and limited water resources in the region must be saved. For example, in the dams in Karaman, the pressure-locked irrigation system was not enough. Projects on this road must be implemented as soon as possible. It is common to water wells because water resources are insufficient in the region. Therefore, the region's largest entry is the cost of electricity used in agricultural irrigation. Of the top 10 cities that use most electricity in agricultural irrigation, the state remains indifferent to the KOP area, where there are Konya, Aksaray and Karaman. While electricity is unsupported in KOP, agricultural electricity is supported in Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Siirt, Şırnak and Batman provinces for five years under the Prime Minister's decision dated 2018. I asked the Minister of Agriculture, and he didn't answer. Let me ask you one more time: is the KOP district farmer a step-son who supports electricity in six counties, not in KOP provinces, but in electric bills? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, guys, you invented a freaky system, and because you're afraid of the citizen, you call it the presidential government system. The only man you bring is not preparing the budget, political identity and responsibility, but the defence of the budget falls to the AK PARTY Group. The EC PARTY has a political responsibility to the public. That's why when you're out on the street, the public is asking for your account. Friends, the drum is on your back, the givel is in the hands of the ministers; the ministers are playing, making you sing. You did this. Now, you don't like what you're doing, you complain that we can't reach the ministers. Even if you do, no one listens; you can't reach them, my friends, you can't reach them. They don't need you; the only place they're looking is the palace. You did this. You don't cry when you fall. Because of the system you've brought in, the agenda of the House has never been on the agenda. Let us discuss the agenda of the nation. When I say so, you become angry. For example, there's an EYT matter that the EC PARTY spokesman and the President mispronounced to the public by calling it retirement. EYT is not early retirement, my friends. EYT has not grown old, but has become attached to the AK PARTY, and to the MHP, who has forgotten the EYT, even though he has promised it. People who are called "YIT" are workers whose pension conditions were changed and pension rights were imposed when they started the job. Besides, it's done by the law that's been passed and the law is broken. Look, there are 3,600 days, 4,500 days, 7,200, 9,000 days retired in this country, but those who can't retire from 10,000 days, 11,000 days, 12,000 days, can't retire from 15,000 days. Where's justice? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Congress can't provide a cure for the nation's problems. Listen to what the people have to say, you'll be ashamed of your troubles. People are worried about hunger, people are worried about unemployment, people are worried about poverty, people are worried about injustice, people are worried about despair, people are worried about tomorrow. Is this trouble for you? It's not. Those who prepare the budget direct the people's resources to the court's command, to the tax-benefited businessmen, to the supporters like Ethem Sandzak, where the Tank Palet Factory is being sequestered. As for the unemployed, young people in debt to the KYK, to the officer who asks for a raise, to the pensioner, to the farmer, to the YIT people, there is no resources, and you defend it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0219par0423	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0218par0424	But you know what the pain of nothing is? The AK PARTY government no longer has a conscience. The AK PARTY MPs and ministers who are on the stand tell a Turkey so much that its conscience aches. AK PARTY Chairman Erdogan said you were interrupting. I don't know if people are gonna split up, but people are crying blood. You put the children of the nation in luxury jeeps, and what about the children of the nation? [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's this budget, this one doesn't, it's all talked out, but the main thing is that people's children are suicidal, dying of hunger, unemployment, poverty, poverty. When are you going to talk about this when the budget is being discussed? Didn't the Prophet say, "It's not ours to eat when the neighbor is hungry?" Did you forget that, too? You might as well have forgotten him. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0220par0430	It's up to Mr Kemal Zeybek. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0221par0433	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a promise regarding the budget for the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration (short name KOSGEB). In the 2018 budget, the amount assigned to KOSGEB was $2.2 billion. In the 2020 budget, Mr. Secretary, the amount set aside this year is 1.8 billion. Is that right? It's been two years. For two years, the economy has increased by 25 per cent, and you have now reduced your contribution to the SMEs by 25 per cent. It's not called production support, it's a source of production. In order to support production, KOSGEB will have to support the KOBI. Without production, without production, there is no employment, there is a need to support production. Here is today's political power, in its current state, not to support production; to prevent production, to import from the outside, to serve a handful of outsiders. My dear friends have earmarked $138 billion and 900 million in interest from the 2020 budget. Now I don't think it's right, my dear friends, for this budget to be divided into KOSGEB and COBI, such a sum as $2 billion. In 2016, you gave loan interest on the 50,000 TL loans distributed by KOSGEB (KOSGEB). When you give these to your followers... Court audits, 2016 audits indicate that the support given to 3.358 KOBI is irregular in Istanbul. So in these loans, how many people the SMEs employ, what their balance sheet, what their turnout is, whether they're registered in KOSGEB, and if the loans from COSGEB to KOBİ are not returned, give support for production, support for production, support for production, support for production, support for their production, because they're our country's people. But you have created a people who do not create, and they consume, and you support them. (Applause from CHP rows) In the name of supporting rural development from the European Union at the time of this government, 75 per cent are supported by Europe, 25 per cent are asked to receive support from the country's own resources, and investments are wanted. You're giving away 75 per cent of outside production-sponsored resources at an average of 55 per cent, Minister. Where do you transfer this 20% source? Where do you eat? Who are you giving them to? Dear Minister, you, the Ministry of Industry and Technology, must protect the industrialist, the tradesman, the small tradesman, you are there to support them. If you -- within your own government -- can't protect the industrialist in this institution, the people who produce for technology, we want to know the name of your mission. Are you in the name of someone? Are you here to support the economic power of international forces, or are you here to support our small industrialist, our tradesman's production? Our fellow lawmakers, in this budget, there is no contribution, no support, no contribution for the industry, for the artist, for the tradesman, for the producer, for the education, for the housing, for the health. The name of this budget, as our President-General said, is the budget of raising a handful of money to a bunch of loan sharks in London. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In order to rid the country of its economy of a huge debt burden, our dear friends have to support all farmers in this economy who live in retirement, our farmers, our farmers, who borrow money from Agriculture Loan Cooperatives, who borrow money from the Agriculture Bank, who use animal loans.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0222par0441	It's over, it's over, you're gonna love it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0223par0442	Let's wrap it up...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0221par0443	Because all the workers who produce in Asia Minor are in a difficult situation. For 17 years, you've been standing on this country like a sledgehammer, turning the economy over to the rant shop. You've put this country in the crosshairs of five companies in the country. You sold out our country's revenues. You will go down in history as the government that exists in the history of the republic, selling the values of the republic, the factories it's built, and making a chase for someone. On this occasion, my country's precious people, the one and only basis for getting rid of this government, you will be saved by the power of the Republican People's Party in the next election. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0224par0447	In turn, it belongs to İzmir MP Sevda Erdan Kılıç. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0225par0450	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the budgets of the Turkish Institute of Standards and the Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation of 2020. I salute the General Assembly. When we look at the Court's report on the Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation, we find that the institution's representation and introduction costs are $877,000, that there is 14 million in currencies due to negative assessment of the currency, and that there are $2,25,000 in loss of duty on the institution's balance. Last month, we asked the Ministry if there was any legal action or action on the institutions executives who spent such high representation costs on this issue, causing the institution's 2 million mission damage, causing it to take place? Of course, we didn't get an answer, just as today we haven't been able to answer 14.523 questions from our Republican People's Party Group's 16,510 motions. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Deputies, Turkish Patents and Marka Foundation, have been run like the president and executives' father's farm, while 17 years of AKP power have not created a new brand in the country. In this period of power, I wish a valuable Turkish brand had been created, but instead of talking about it here today, we could be proud of this brand and enjoy it all together. We've been looking at how the agency is doing with the president. The president of the company loves to travel, travel. The head of the agency left two and a half months of the year 2018 not in charge, but in place for the vice presidents. He didn't even go out of the country, he went abroad. When you say Munich, The Hague, Singapore, Paris, the longest he's ever been in charge throughout the year is only forty-one days, only forty-one days. Unless, of course, there's a president at the head of the agency, and the executives have been hammering around.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0226par0455	He's in the EU, so he's on official duty. You don't want him to go?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0225par0456	Dear lawmakers, when we fail the Institute of Turkish Standards, we see that the institution, whose task is to prepare Turkish standards, determines the cost of the stay in euros even in the internal deployment of its staff. When the country is broken in poverty, we're both nationals. We don't really understand that even in this institution, even within the country, the euros are being paid. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] For 17 years, every time you take the word, sir, we're local. Wow, sir. We're nationals. But we can't accept that you won't say a word about what happened in this institution. We know that your nativeism and your nationality are both so-called fakes. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, it's actually very difficult to evaluate two institutions in five minutes. Of course, as we looked at the institution, we found Qatar again -- which country did he make a deal with. A recent agreement has been made with Qatar on facilitating trade and protecting consumers. What is your love of Qatar? You've been up and down the Tank Palet Factory... and I haven't been able to say it, and we've been saying it so much.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0227par0461	You're not used to it. Those who are used to it say it well!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0225par0462	Yes, you've gone after the Tank Palet Factory, you've received the Flying Palace as a gift, and now you're setting Qatar standards in TSE. We know that Qatar and yours are a love story, but this love has cost our country a lot of money. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, as a result, when we look at the entire budget, this budget has been an apocalypse budget. In this budget, the minimum wager who is trying to make a living on loans is a lot. In this budget, there are teachers who can't be appointed. In this budget, there are jobs from a college who can't pay off a KYK debt. In this budget, the father who can't buy his children school clothes, the mother who can't warm his child, the husband who can't take his wife to the market. (HPP) In this budget, there is the affinity of the unpaid martyr relatives, the farmer who stays in the field, the industry who can't produce, and the shopkeeper who shuts down the store.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0228par0467	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0225par0468	And in this budget, there's always no "oh," there's a boo-boo. Our citizens who are watching us at the beginning of the screens here are above this budget. For these reasons, we, the Republican People's Party Group, will vote for this poor budget, but there is a promise, I want to remind you that the person who took the horse was not able to cross the line of Ahküdar. He says, "I salute the General Assembly."
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0228par0471	Kayseri MP Cetin Aşek is in charge.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0229par0473	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the 2020 budget of TÜBITAK. I salute the Veteran Assembly. At the beginning of his work, the Great Ataturk, speaks of the lack of view of 1919, meaning the general state of the country. A hundred years later, in the year 2019, the landscape in our country is also said that the judges of the country have become officers of political power, they have become unrelated to independent justice, our cities have been invaded by close to 5 million refugees as a result of political power's mistakes in foreign policy; they have become obsessive and ideologically obsessed behind the age of national education; agricultural production has reached the point of extinction; agricultural production has become completely dependent on agriculture and manufacturing industry; the economy has collapsed, unemployment has reached its peak, corruption and political corruption has surrounded us like a cancer. The fight against ا has been completely watered down, the stock exchange has been established in my country, the ancient fuckers who have betrayed our country have been cleared, and some have even been made a head crown in the stock market. It is unfortunate to discuss the budget of TÜBITAK (TBITAK) in this view. Because power has no priority, such as RD study, science, technology. See, members of lawmakers, the U.S.A. gives $476.5 billion, China gives $370 billion, and Turkey gives only $3.5 billion to TÜBITAK. The same Turkey allocates $11.5 billion, which is about four times the amount of TÜBITAK. Dear lawmakers, given the needs of the TÜBITAK era and the way the world is going, are essentially an institution our country should be the apple of the eye. So, what did the AKP authorities do in their sleep? He changed TÜBITAK's law five times and put TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) under the command of TÜBİTAK. A science base, such as TÜBITAK, has been transformed into a base. An institution established to consult with the government when needed was now a consultant for the government. Because it was the government's advisor and mentor who tried to take our country away from us. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are lawmakers among you who swear at Israel with their mouths foamed and foamed. Yes, Israel deserves even more from the persecution of Jerusalem. But unfortunately, the technological products produced in TÜBITAK, which was handed over to the government, the technological secret of the country, were given to Israel through private companies, and you all shared the income. Not only did TUBİTAK transfer money to ا, the MPs also took part in conspiracy cases such as Ergenekon, Sledgehammer. Yesterday, when we said, "Don't hand these institutions over to the U.S., the next day will sell you and the next country," we said, "Don't politicize the judiciary today, don't undermine the law, don't corrupt the national education" and we don't talk in vain. Tomorrow you'll see that we'll all pay for what you've done, unfortunately, as a nation. If we want to lead the world, if we want to develop, develop, become a great state, we can't do it by setting up false tough sentences, which start with the words of O Merkel, O Israel. If we want to be a great state, the main agenda of our country, our media, our power must be artificial intelligence, technology and science. First you have to believe in science; you must not fear science, you must fear the reader; I am more confident in the ferase of the illiterate who has not read it. See, lawmakers, the number of references taken by 71 rectors currently serving in Turkey is zero. It means that the research of a scientist is being used by other scientists around the world and given references. No international scientist has ever used the publications of our 71 rectors, which is embarrassing. These rectors are not even accepted as Ph.D. students in developed countries, but in our country, these are the rectors. Infidelity is the way it is in every field, lawmakers. Can you refer to the rectors, who are editors of these magazines, published in the Hunter magazine? On TV channels, can the rectors who make the trumpet of power every evening refer to me so that I may become president again? Of course, they can't be referenced.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0230par0481	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0229par0482	But our country has many internationally accepted scientists. For example, my dear nephew, who works on artificial intelligence in Silicon Valley in America, Dr. Omar Sercan Arik, an electrical engineer, has a total reference to 1,414; 1.414 against zero. There are thousands like this, Mr. Lawmakers, but in our country, the value of these values is unknown. Yes, the world is interested in artificial intelligence, unfortunately, given AKP's agenda and government's agenda, what I'm saying now seems like a dream, a dream. Of course, the government, which has never seen the tip of its nose in many matters such as the PKK's opening, Syria, has no expectation of such deep vision. So, what's the solution? The cure is science and science as the truest shepherd. It is the rule of the Republican People's Party, which embraces the principle. I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0230par0485	It belongs to İzmir MP Ednan Arslan Bey. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0231par0488	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and our High Council. Today is the 5th day of budget talks. The ministers and ruling lawmakers, who were talking about the budget, talked about the same thing over and over again: Development Turkey, the increasing prosperity, the benefits of the one-man regime, the well-educated young people, the non-profit citizens, how we went forward in technology and science. I wish that were the truth. I'm afraid that's not what happens when you come up here and say that. So, if the situation is as good as you've described, why have you increased electricity by 73 percent over the last two years, 57 percent to natural gas? Why is one of the three young ones unemployed? Why did 408,000 college students have to get their registration deleted last year? Why did you set up the Department of Debt? In short, you can't run the country, you're blown away. This picture, unfortunately, reflects negatively on every institution in the country. I'm going to talk today about the budgets of the Turkish Academy of Sciences and the Turkish Space Agency. Dear lawmakers, the history of science academys in Europe dates back to 1,700, and in our country, TÜBA was established in 1993. These academies in developed countries have some in common that we don't. These are corporate autonomy, strong financial structure, scientific independence. Today, in the developed countries of the world, academies are supported by state budgets, but they act completely independent in their membership elections and in their science work. Scientific independence and administrative autonomy would have bothered someone, which was interfered with by a decree issued in 2011. 2/3 of the members of the council have been given the authority to choose 2/3 of the members of the board. Unfortunately, many board members were forced to resign as a result of the earthquake at that time. I'd like to rephrase the situation of the institution through data provided by the institution in the 2014-2018 Strategic Plan. Look, the institution is conducting a survey, asking academics from its own members and universities: "What are the negative factors affecting its academic activities?" The picture, Mr. Minister, is on its website -- you will see that if you enter the TİBA website -- in this way: 91 per cent of the scientists involved in the survey say that the institution is under the influence of politics, saying it is likely to become a member through the appointment of 83 per cent, and 82 per cent say that the institution's international image has been affected by recent changes, and 74 per cent say that it's negatively affected by the fact that its successful academics are not a member of the institution. My advice to you, Mr. Secretary, please consider this survey and intervene in the guidance of this survey. Of course, that's not all there is to it. First of all, I'd like to ask you four questions, Mr. Secretary: How many projects have won international awards? Have they looked into hiring at universities where the president of the TUBA is on duty? Is it true that the President has not considered the merits? Is it true, Mr. Secretary, that the nominations are acting according to their political identities as part of the TUBA awards? Dear MPs, another issue is the Turkish Space Agency. The first detection is that it's an institution that's late to be established. The second assessment is that the institution's foundation has been established on the wrong legal ground because Turkey's Space Agency has been established by a presidential decree. I wish the institutional code had come to our great House. The appointment of public servants, duty and authority, other autonomy rights are regulated by law. You organized these matters under the authority of the House with the presidential decree, and you ignored our House. Another assessment is about the budget. Why did you remove the Court's control over the spending power given to the Board of Directors of the Turkish Space Agency? Are you going to make expenses that you don't want to pass on to the Court reports? We set up a space agency, giving the company a staff door, high rights of peace. It can't be said. Dear friends, I'd like to talk to you about something about my constituency, Izmir.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0232par0498	I don't think you should touch Izmir.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0231par0499	Let me touch it, alpay, you know.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0232par0500	Don't touch me, Izmir.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0231par0501	What is this place, Albany?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0232par0503	Where's that?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0231par0504	This is the historical power plant in İzmir.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0232par0505	You run Izmir.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0231par0506	He was active in 1924, serving Izmir for sixty years without interruption. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0233par0509	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0231par0510	Today, it is a city building that has ended its work. In April, this building and property were auctioned off by the President of the Privatisation Administration, and Izmir Metropolitan Municipality entered this tender and offered the highest bid at 35 million prices, but it was never approved. Why don't you approve of this tender? Did you fly helicopters over this land, you promised someone this land? (HPP) Izmir Metropolitan City wants to bring this land and building into the city, to build a museum. That's why this tender needs to be approved immediately. Look what the Privatisation Administration says: you can't enter this tender. Why can't you come in? Only private companies can participate in this tender, so public companies can't participate, so even though you've made the biggest offer, I'm not giving it to you. But Izmir and the people of Izmir know very well that we're not going to let this city building side by side. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0234par0514	You've blown up Izmir. He's stuck here. It's gone, Izmir!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0231par0515	You don't know the place, you're talking! Know the place, the place first!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0235par0516	Manisa MP Semra Kaplan Curly on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Curly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0236par0519	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the 2020 budget of our Ministry of Commerce, and I hereby salute you and our great nation. I'd also like to discuss developments in global trade and present information on our country's performance in foreign trade. Integrated by our world-integrated country, it is important to monitor global developments closely, to eliminate global and regional threats, as well as to ensure maximum use of opportunities. According to the Economy View Report, published in November of OECD, trade wars, poor investment environment, and the world's ongoing political instability weaken the global economy. [[Whistling]] Mr. President, I'm sorry, can I have a moment of silence, please? In this direction, the OECD estimated global growth forecast in its report as 2.9 per cent compared to the May report, and 2.9 per cent for global growth in 2020, with 0.5 points down. It has also been estimated by OECD that global trade growth is 0.9 points downside, 1.2 per cent for 2019; 1.6 per cent for 2020, with a 1.6 per cent revision in the lower direction. According to these figures, the lowest global growth rate will be observed since the recent global economic crisis in 2019. Of course, the weakness in investments is a factor that lowers growth in the short term, while long-term growth is constrained by supply-directional constraints. Following the speculative attacks on Turkey's economy in mid-2018, international organisations have seen that growth projections for our country have been very low, but at the point we're coming today, the same organisations have made high-profile revisions by confirming positive developments in the Turkish economy. In recent days, TÜİK announced the third quarter growth figures in 2019. These figures also show that Turkey's economy has passed its endurance test and has entered a stable growth path. The Turkish economy grew by 0.9% in the third quarter of 2019. This growth performance has contributed to the strong performance of our exports despite the turmoil in the global economy. The recent acceleration in our economy shows that we will reach the goal of a 5 per cent growth rate in the New Economic Programme. If we look at the statistics on Turkey's foreign trade, our exports, which tend to increase in the last quarter of 2016, increased by 7.5 per cent in 2018, to $176.9 billion, while our imports were estimated at 231.2 billion in less than 3.2 per cent. Thus, in 2018, our country reached the highest export rate in its history, leaving a successful year behind in exports. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The year 2019 was a year of success in foreign trade, despite the poor performance in the global economy, trade wars, Brexit, and political turmoil in different parts of the world. As a matter of fact, according to the administration data of the Ministry of Commerce, our exports increased by 1.8 per cent in the first 11 months of the year to 165.1 billion dollars, while the number of imports was recorded at $190.2 billion in less than 11.3 per cent in the first 11 months. Thus, as of the first 11 months, the foreign trade deficit decreased by 51.8 per cent, with 19.7 billion dollars, while exports met the import rate of 86.8 per cent. Mr. President, I'd like to bring to your attention some of the projects that have been implemented by our Ministry of Commerce to increase our exports. Our people are the most important thing to increase our country's global competitiveness. In this framework, especially in order for young people and women who make our population more dynamic to play a more active role in our exports, the Department of Exports of Women and Young Enterprises has been established and begun its activities. I believe that with programmes such as the Turkish Women and Young Enterprise Network, the Angel Investment Network, the Export Academy, activities aimed at creating education, counselling and communication networks in this area can increase our exports by contributing to the successful development of women and young people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0237par0531	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0236par0532	I'd like to bring to your attention another important project in the Export Main Plan, which was announced by our Ministry in August. Today it is observed that countries that have made significant progress in the development process have successfully managed the technological transformation processes. In this framework, technology-based investments aim to establish new-generation zones of residency and to increase high-tech product exports to an OECD average of 14 per cent. Opportunities and incentives to attract technology investments will be one of the most important steps in this project. Another important project, developed under the Export Main Plan, is to strengthen foreign trade upper secondary schools to grow human resources in the skills the sector needs under the protocol signed between the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Commerce. Here, both ministries will be co-existently providing the workforce with the skills needed and heard by working on issues such as curriculum, educational materials, internship and scholarship opportunities. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, there's been a blackout in time.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0238par0536	In my opinion, give me another five minutes; the Constitution requires positive discrimination according to Article 10.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0239par0537	We've had our flaws there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0236par0538	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, due to the time limit, I can't recall any of the other important projects of our Trade Ministry aimed at boosting exports. What we expect from the Ministry of Commerce in the coming period is that he will continue his activities with the same determination to continue this positive performance in foreign trade. As I put an end to my words, I wish to continue with the successful work of our Ministry, thank you to our Minister and members of the Ministry for their zealous work, and salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0240par0543	Denizli MP Nilgun Ök. Here you go, Mr. Euk.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0241par0546	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Commerce. I hereby salute the High Council and the citizens who follow us on their screens with love and respect. As you all know, our country has strengthened its place in the world between the breakthroughs it has made over the last 17 years. Turkey's initial weight in world politics and its simultaneous rise in many areas have unfortunately caused internal and external shocks. But we don't give up, we don't stop, we work as a country to maintain our presence at strategic points in every area. With protection policies and economic recession all over the world, our ministry is constantly working on new products, new markets, new goals and innovative export approach as our supply demand balance is changing. See, in the time of our powers, we've increased our exports fivefold by diversifying products in foreign trade. It can export over $1 billion in only 9 products, but today we've moved it to 29 products. (AS/TK) Today, the number of countries we exported over $1 billion is 39; again, the number of cities we exported over $1 billion is 5 today. Our country has increased its share of global exports by 1.5 times. By the end of 2002, we delivered our gross foreign currency reserves, including $28.1 billion in gold, for 101.1 billion as of November 2019. Our gold reserves, again at $1.3 billion, are at 25.9 billion. Of course, we're going to get our exports from $36 billion to $180 billion. With that figure, we've broken the record of republican history, and we're raising the bar even higher. (EA/DG) When we came to the post, the exports of 65.8% reached 86.9% today. This reduces our foreign trade deficit, our need for foreign financing, and contributes substantially to the current balance. To achieve the sustainable export structure we desire, to increase the international competitiveness of our exports, our Ministry will support $3.8 billion in 2020. Of course, the policies, incentives, and support of our governments are of great importance in the fulfillment of these figures. (EA/DG) And the export master plan, which our Minister announced in August, has become an important road map for the entire export community. Mr. President, you see, when travel events took place, interest rates were 4.5 percent in this country, when foreign investors came to our country most interested in our country. The trip did not end with December 17-25, July 15th, the treacherous bloody coup, followed by the speculative coup in August 2018. But what did we do? Look, this is a very important number: during 1992-2002, our country, which can only attract $11.6 billion direct foreign investments, was able to attract 208.9 billion in foreign investments today by raising its size more than 18 stories between 2003 and 18 years. How did he do that? Moreover, in the process, someone went to Europe and went door to door, saying that Turkey is not a safe country for investments. That's why these numbers are so valuable, our export numbers, our investments, my friends. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, of course, are very important to the exporting firms. EXIMBANK is already covering more than half of the export loans given by the banking sector, and 73 per cent of its clients are made up of our SMEs. A closer look at EXIMBANK's contribution to our exporters provided a total of $40 billion in financing -- 24.4 billion in direct credit support, $15.6 billion in export credit insurance -- by the time of November 2018. Our goal is to raise this support to 54 billion dollars by the end of 2020. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this budget will permanently reduce our economy's dependency on foreign savings...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0242par0555	Here you go, Mr. Euk.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0241par0556	...a budget based on providing an economic transformation based on domestication, which will lower the global income rate of the military deficit by 1.2 per cent. Also, I would like to thank the Minister of this bench for the leadership of the Office of Women and Young Enterprises that he has established within our Ministry to support and strengthen women and young entrepreneurs. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As we know, the so-called Armenian genocide bill was adopted in the United States Senate yesterday, which I strongly condemn, America must first look at its own dark history. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Finally, I wish our Ministry's budget to be good for our country and our nation. I'd like to thank our non-stop staff, especially our Minister. I give thanks to our noble nation, who has given us the 18th time to make a budget. I salute our High Council with respect and love.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0243par0565	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0244par0566	We've made a decision, and the latest group vice presidents will be reviewing it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0243par0567	Oh, yeah, okay, that's fine. Mr. President, I, for the brief excuse of Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0244par0569	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0243par0570	No, it's okay, I didn't know you made that decision, I'll follow it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0245par0571	Mr. President, we're finally going to make an assessment because we followed that decision.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0244par0572	Mr. Free, thank you, thank you. In turn, İstanbul MP Hulusi Şenturk.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0246par0575	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Competitive Association and the Hellal Accreditation Agency. On this occasion, I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, the Association of Competitiveness has been making serious efforts to prevent monopolisation and cartelization from being established for the past 22 years, to take the necessary measures for markets to work in healthy conditions of competition. In particular, in recent years, he has focused on the world's rising trend of digital markets and has made bold decisions in this area. For example, he took a step that no national authority outside the European Union Commission had the courage to take and imposed a 92m-dollar administrative fine against Google's unfair competition. In this sense, our Competitive Association has been struggling with bold steps, especially e-commerce and unfair competition in digital markets, and its latest booking. By decision, he has also shown his determination to do so throughout the market. Of course, it is possible for a country's economy to improve well - functioning markets, which requires a decisive struggle against unfair competition. I'd like to thank the directors and employees of our competition for their determination. Dear friends, I specifically requested from our group to take a statement about the Hellal Accreditation Foundation because during the time of my presidency, the Institute for Standards of Turkish Standards and the Institute for Islamic States, whose short name is the SMIIC, the Institute for Standards and Metrology, we had made an intensive effort with our friends to begin the process of documenting as Turkish Standards in 2013. We have a small lack of information in a speaker, even countries like Brazil have criticised the fact that it can't be issued in Turkey, which I agree with, but I agree with its importance, for six years, the Institute of Turkish Standards has issued this document and has so far given it to nearly 500 percent of the institutions. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] But there's one thing that I'm glad about: the halal documentation was wanted by the TSE before me in Turkey, but in the terms of that period, among the reasons for the second-closed investigation file on the EC PARTI, there was the irony of TSE's legal documentation. (AK PARTI) So the period had been withdrawn, but praise be to God, Turkey has now become normal, and today all of us are talking about the importance of the global trade and the importance of the helical documentation and accordion, and even if we can criticize Turkey by falling behind on this issue, praise be to my Lord, Turkey has reached a certain point. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, you know, the Hellal Accreditation Foundation was actually created by the decree in July 2018, and as someone who is ambitious in this job, they've made a great success in a very short time. Because building an accreditation institution doesn't end with three specialist appointments; each of these experts has to be assigned in different codes from food to cosmetics, from textile to tourism, to packaging; it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it has to be certified in international standards like 17063, 17025, 19011; it's not enough, it needs to be certified after this training. Within 14 months, while completing its physical infrastructure and technical infrastructure, the institution also established a pool of experts and established all of these competencies; not enough, it prepared close to 40, and as of October 16th, the Hell Accredition Management began its application by publishing it in the Official Gazette. Again today -- there's been a lack of information -- I think some of our parties -- there's no application. It's been said. Although the regulation was only published a month ago, seven of them have applied to the Hell Accreditation Foundation, including Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Pakistan, Taiwan. The Turkish Institute of Standards was the first to apply, and as of this week, its -- oh, thank God -- audits were successfully completed. Dear friends, the standardization, documentation, observation, examination, metrology services are essential to the economy, and therefore, institutions such as TSE, UME, and the Hell Acreditization Institution (HAK) are strategic for our country. Thankfully, the Hellal Accreditation Agency has successfully completed a difficult and complicated process in a very short time, such as 14 months. I want to thank them in front of all of you, as someone who's given years to do this. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish you all the best in our country, both our Competitiveness Association and our Hellal Accreditation Agency.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0247par0589	The order belongs to Gaziantep MP Abdullah Nejat Koker. Here you go, Mr. Coacher.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0248par0592	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, there is a huge surge in the global economy as international trade relations are testing the world. As Turkey continues to fight terrorism, we face open sanction threats against our country. Despite everything, with strong will and economic measures, we continue to produce, create jobs, export and grow. Thank God we're past negatives. Our economy has grown by 0.9% in the third quarter, and we expect a much better growth rate in the fourth quarter. TIFE dropped to 10.56 percent in November. At the end of the year, there's a figure in export that we're going to exceed 180 billion dollars. Industrial production has increased by 3.8 per cent annually. The Economic Trust Index reached 91.3%. The rate of use of capacities has risen to the highest level of the last 15 months, 77.2%. The success of the measures to stimulate the economy has revealed this beautiful painting, hopefully even better, along with the balancing process. Dear lawmakers, we can't ignore the transformation of industry as our investments continue rapidly for sustainable growth. So I think it's very important that the R&D, innovation, entrepreneurial, most importantly, the manpower that's grown up is very important. That's why I care so much about the Technology Focused Industrial Movement Program, which started for the domestic and national production of high-end products. Artificial intelligence, enhanced reality, robotic cyber security and sensor technology are now on the agenda of our country and the Ministry of Industry. Digital transformation studies in the industry have gained momentum. Two percent of the model factories that provide training and counselling services to businesses have been opened. I find it very important that there will be five more openings next year, including one in Gaziantep. With three innovation centres to be built in 2020, I find it valuable to support the technological development and innovation of businesses, to increase the number of technological development areas to 84. In 16 business development centers, entrepreneurs are supported by KOSGEB, while our GDP rate has reached 1.3 per cent of GDP, and our R&R central number has reached 1.195 (as of November). According to the year before, the number of patent applications in our country has increased by 8.8%; the number of design applications has increased by 3.9%. We are number 14 in the world's patent application, 10 in the brand application, 5 in the design application. Turkey is now a country that produces technology. Our defense industry, up to 75% local and national, swells our hearts. Our defense and aviation exports were $2 billion 188 million in 2018, while the third quarter of 2019 increased 37.7 percent, and it's hard not to be proud. This year, TÜBITAK has opened new horizons to private sectors, universities and researchers as part of RD and innovation activities, which have supported the 3.072 RD project for $511m. My city, Gaziantep, which exports $1.5 billion to 190 countries on 6 continents, is taking on its role in Turkey's vision of the future. For a sustainable industrial model, we have launched a transformation campaign in industry with the support of our Ministry of Industry for high-tech and added value production. Gaziantep will host the world's largest aviation, space and technology festival, which will take place next year in September, with the support of our Ministry of Industry. In the 100th year of our national struggle, I invite everyone from here to Gaziantep. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I wish the 2020 budget of our Ministry of Industry and Technology to be good for our country, our nation and our industry, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0249par0603	In turn, it belongs to Diyarbakır MP Oya Eronat. Here you go, Mr. Eronat.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0250par0606	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of the GAP Regional Development Administration's 2020 budget. I salute your high council. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ibn Haldun, a 14th - century thinker, said geography is destiny. My childhood and youth will overcome the good fortune of politicians. The GAP, one of the most important and major projects in our Republic's history, and since 2002, thanks to the EC PARTI rulings led by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the good fortune of the east has been defeated and even more. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Diyarbakir, a very important centre in the Ottoman era, has been economically regressed by the neglect of later years and the fact that it is considered an exile of the east, but has left the difficult days behind because of its origins, culture, knowledge and potential for progress. The first word that naturally comes to mind is dams. The Southeast Anatolia Project began with dams called seven earrings, but with the domino effect of dams, there have been major improvements in economics, culture, employment, transport. Now, I'd like to give you an example: our town of Kulp was a very important centre in the early years of the republic in the production of silk insects. After a hundred years, Kullp is now ranked number 1 in Turkey's production of silk insecticide. Today, the silk ties we call "Pasuri" are recognized both in Turkey and in the world. And I'd like to thank our minister, Mehdi Eker, the name father of the Pasuri brand, who worked so hard to get to this point in silk insectism. By the way, Pasur is the old name of Kulp. Exports from the GAP region in 2002 were $689.4 million, while exports increased to $8.7 billion in 2018, so about 13 times higher. Again, in the GAP region, the number of businesses employing 10 and more workers in 2002 was 1,102, while 39,000 of our people were employed in these businesses, while in 2018, our number of businesses employing 10 and more people increased to 4,733, and there are 23,000 people employed in these businesses. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In health, the GAP region has been a shining centre. The Middle East flows into the GAP area, so to speak. The patient's bed fell from 13 to 23.3, and there was a decline in infant deaths that reached a thousand to a thousand to a thousand to a thousand to a thousand to a thousand to a point of 9.3. Our GAP Regional Development Administration is also doing top-of-the-line work on culture, art and tourism. In addition, our administration has launched the Sensitive Agricultural Research Project, along with the Institute for Space Technologies. Again, the year of Gobeklitepe was declared by our President in 2019, and was supported by the Enlightenment and Environment Editing Projects of Gobeklitepe. Again, efforts to improve and regulate Montenegro Ski Centre between Şanlıurfa and Diyarbakır provinces have been supported by our Development Administration. In our region, also, in order to improve the condition of our women and young girls, the COTOM centers have been established to provide them with income and crafts. We have about 20,000 women per year applying to 48 NATOM centers. About 500 of our women who have studied here work each year either in their own work or in different fields of work. By means of chatoms, some 1,540,000 people have been reached so far. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish the GAP Regional Development Administration budget to be a blessing. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0251par0622	In turn, it belongs to our Van MP, Abdulahat Arvas. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0252par0624	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget for the East Anatolian Project (DAP) Regional Development Administration, which is part of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute you all with the salutation of Allah. The 2020th budget of the East Anatolian Development Administration, which is light and expensive, has been set at $90,920,000. The purpose of the DAP Administration, established in the period of the EC PARTI, established in 2011, is to speed up social, economic, environmental and urban development of the East Anatolian Region, to improve the region's development index, to re-coordinate the applications, to carry out research, planning, projecting, monitoring, evaluation and coordination services required by investments in the region. Regional development, considered part of economic development, is also one of the key aspects of establishing social justice. With that understanding, during our AK PARTY administrations, the Eastern Anatolian region was more important than the past. The DAP Administration has provided financial support for the projects of many public institutions, local governments and universities in the region, by implementing programmes for various sectors starting in 2013. In this scope, it financed major projects such as small-scale agricultural irrigation, animal drinking pools, development of plant and animal infrastructure, revitalisation of historical urban culture, development of reading culture and solar energy. The DAP Administration has adopted 1,481 projects to support its activities since its start in 2013, and a total of 739m euros has been earmarked for them. A total of 805 projects were sponsored from 2013-19 as part of the Small Scale Agricultural Watering Projects. With the completion of the projects, 4,000km of canals will be built to water 156,000 hectares. A total of 202 machines were provided with equipment support as part of the Plantation Infrastructure Project from 2014-2019. In addition, in the area of 21.719 hectares, the living conditions of nomads have been improved, supported. Three farming centres have been established for our local farmers, including Ataturk University, Fırat University, and Van Centennial University, for our farmers who are working in East Anatolia. Between 2014-2019, 215 animal drinking water projects with the capacity to store 4 million cubic metres of water were supported and provided to repair the animal's need for drinking water in the meadows. 30,121 plasters were distributed in the Mera for animals to need water. The added value of livestock has also been supported by 28 animal markets and 27 slaughterhouses to be made in a higher way. The DAP Administration has also been developed with financing support and delivered one to the DAP provinces, offering the use of farmers in the mobile sheep bath area of the DAP, which is the first in Turkey. Thirty-two projects have been supported by a $37.2m budget for restoration to revitalise historically-identified areas. In particular, technological and modern locations were created to increase the interest of children and young people living in low-income settlements and to make them qualified, and a total of $22.4 million was transferred to 136 projects. Development administrations and agencies, which are particularly important in our country, are looking for solutions, are doing very valuable work in resolving the differences in development between regions. I want to thank our Minister of Industry and Technology, our Director of Development, Director of the DAP Administration, and all employees who have produced, encouraged and supported the development of East Anatolia, especially our President, and I wish that the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2020 should be a blessing. My respects to all of you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We condemn the U.S. Senate's decision -- the charge of Armenian genocide -- which politically adopts the genocide bill. We invite Mr. Trump and his team to visit the Senate, the Armenian genocide, and the Zeve Martyrdom to see its meme. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0253par0635	In order to speak, Konya MP Selman Özboycı. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0254par0638	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the budget of the Office of Regional Development Management for the Project of the Plains of Iconium. I salute the General Assembly and wish our central management budget of 2020 to the best of our nation. Turkey has entered a new and bright period, with the EC PARTY established in 2002. During this period of investment and service-oriented politics for our country, under the leadership of Mr. President, many of our country's unfinished and incomplete projects have been completed and on regional and national basis Turkey's chains have been broken, while our nation's welfare level has gained rapid momentum. Without a doubt, one of the key steps in investment and service politics is regional development. In this context, the Conium Plain Project is an important project that constitutes the centre of regional development. KOP has a history over a hundred years, as we've all read from history books. The effort to bring water to the Plains of Iconia, which was launched by Abdülhamit Khan during the Ottoman Empire, is the first official irrigation project in our country. As of today, Konya, Karaman, Aksaray, Niğde, Kırkkale, Kırşehir, Nevşehir and Yozgat have become an integrated regional development programme covering many sectors in the fertile areas of our provinces. The visionary approaches of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and our governments have shaped the future construction of our country in a positive way. Without a doubt, these future investments are of interest to all of us. With the experience we have received from our history, it is our duty to move things forward and to increase the power of our country's production in this fertile land. The KOP, which carried out field work in the eight provinces of Anatolia, also adopts the increased economic and social capacity of the region by targeting total transformation in all sectors, particularly agriculture, in the main focus of sustainable use of land and water resources. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, in the middle and long term, water from different basins to increase the limited water supply of the region met with the abundant territory of the region along with the Blue Tunnel. The spring water of the Toros, which came from the outer basins today through the Blue Tunnel, flows as drinking water from the taps of our ancient city, Iconium. I want to express my gratitude to all of our institutions, who have contributed to the development of both land and human futures, this and so on. Of course, KOP does not only cover agriculture, but also has an important role in our vision of KOP 2023, 2053 and 2071, including basic sectors such as energy, automotive, manufacturing and defence industry. As we look at it, many important projects from the defence industry to the logistical center work in Ionya are constantly preparing for the service of our nation. As you can see, the overall development strategy of the KOP is felt in all areas, not limited to agriculture. Because Asia Minor, as in the past, will continue to improve our country in the future, maintaining its importance and value by increasing the quality of our nation's life. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I'd like to address you as a 30-year-old congressman brother. Today, the presence of 14 members of our EC PARTY group from 22 to 35 is the greatest indicator of the value our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan put on this country's youth. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Because of this value, young people have become important actors, not only in the future of the country, but also in today's. Without question, Turkey's greatest power and potential is its youth. Today, revolutionary steps have been taken on many issues, both domestic and national. The greatest capital of these steps is a youth that is aware of its potential, reads, thinks, implements, and results. It has to be known that the greatest legacy that we can all leave to the future is to make sure that young people grow up to be the most equipped. And the biggest investment in the future of our country, I think, is going to happen. I have no objection to expressing all this not only on behalf of myself and our young deputies at our party, but also on behalf of all the young and young lawmakers in our parliament who feel young. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We will all continue to strive and work day and night for our nation, especially for our young ones, in order to fulfill the responsibility that is upon us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up. Finally, I thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our leader, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is most trusting in young people, who knows best what young people can do when given the opportunity, and who understands the language of young people without question, for the youth of my country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish our central budget of 2020 was a blessing, and I salute the High Council and all of you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0255par0655	Young President, if you had remembered Ataturk, all the groups would have applauded you, you didn't do it again at the last moment.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0256par0656	The order belongs to Tripoli MP Adnan Günnar Bey. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0257par0659	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Chairman of the Regional Development Administration of the East Black Sea Project Project, whose short name is DOC in the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks. I salute you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before we move on to DOKAP, my dear friend, my dear friend, I'd like to give you an answer to the speech that Mr Ahmet Kaya, MP of the Republican People's Party, has just made. I salute him from here. In Tripoli, he mentioned that people migrated betting that there were no investments. I would like to remind my dear brother Ahmet Kaya Bey that instead of demographics, the population has risen because during the AK PARTY, the census system was established based on the address and the bodies in the cemetery are no longer counted. (AK PARTY) And the realistic population graph is in Tripoli, which, given the last five years, is slightly upward. So, if Tripoli was first explained among the provinces of Turkey, then there are good reasons for that. What was done to Trabzon? One day, as I walked through the city, a citizen from the opposition told me: "What have you done to Tripoli? You didn't do anything. You came here, and you asked us to vote here. I said to him, "Well, what should we do?" He told me, "You'll know that." And after we've sorted out our investments, he said, "My vote is yours." And now, in Turkey, 15 years ago, the record of the AK PARTI is the highest in 15 elections.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0258par0665	When are you going to build the tannery, Congressman? When are you going to build the tannery?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0257par0666	I'd like to express to my brother Ahmet Kaya and the Republican People's Party Group what's been done: we've provided 1.2 quadrillion pounds of SGK bonus for 44,000 jobs. In Tripoli, we gave a total of $1.7 quadrillion in agricultural support. 3 new organised industrial areas; 1 techno park; 1 research-revealment, 1 design centre established. And it came to pass, that this year, they brought natural gas into Tripoli, and Arsin, and Mashsin, and Akchaabath, and Akchaabat. He's taken 30 quadrillion investments in the last 17 years, Tripoli. 2.824 received new classes and three universities along with the 2nd university of state, Tripoli. The 41,000 people were held at the Shenol Sun Stadium, the 400-bed Law School and Research Hospital, and the 200-bed Papa Hospital was built at Akçaabat. There were 8,037 additional dwellings. 87 historical artifact restorations were performed, and the roads divided in that geography were moved from 73 kilometers to 220 km. My dear brothers, as well as the ones whose foundations have been laid and what are to be done, we are now building a city hospital with 900 beds for Tripoli at the end of January and in February. Again, there is an additional 100-bed extension of the ofof, an additional hospital, the Lawal Boulevard, which is Turkey's new Bosphorus Bridge in Istanbul, which costs 2/5 of the cost of the newly built Bosphorus Bridge. From robotic coding to nanotechnology, cyber security to mobile application, technology workshop for artificial intelligence, and instead of Hüseyin Avni Aker, the nation's garden is held both in Tripoli and in Akçaabat, both in the Foundation and in our districts of Of. As my time was short, I wanted to give it to you in summary, but to my dear brother Ahmet, in the most gentle manner, I say a little mercy in his speech, and I say that I will give him more answers one-on-one to one, as I consider him a liar. As for my dear friends, as for the DOKAP issue, we've also signed a very important project in the DOKAP, which comes under the name Green Road, but I also remind that farmers from ovaries are being supported in Tripoli, Giresun, Rize, and Tokat, until they come to many investments in the nine provinces. IN 2003-2019, 486.2 million TL grants were earmarked and 14 bridges were completed in the 1.093km section of the main chords to the Green Road Project, and were intended to be completed by the end of 2023 years of construction. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I have a moment of apology? Dear friends, in the introduction of the DOCAP Regional Development Administration to our region, I thank all those who have done so, especially our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and wish our budget of 2020 to be good for our country and our nation, I salute our House.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0259par0674	The order belongs to our Mersin MP, Haci Özkan Bey.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0260par0676	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group over the budgetary budget proposal for 2020, on the budget for the development and support of Small and Medium Business Development Administration (KOSGEB) budget. I salute our holy nation and the Veterans' Assembly, especially the people of Mersin, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The engine of Turkey's development in recent years, the KOBI, is a large part of the business in our country. Nearly 100 per cent of the 3.5 million enterprises established in Turkey are entering the SME class. This ratio clearly shows the position of the KOBI in Turkey's economy. The SMEs also cover 78 per cent of the total employment. Therefore, the development and support of SMEs is of great importance to our country's economy. As of 2019, KOSGEB set a new vision and road map, first implementing the Strategic Product Support Programme to carry out domestic and national production through our COBI. COSGEB, which implements the COBI Technological Product Investment Support Programme to ensure that technology production spreads through our SMEs, supports the production of technological products that have completed the RD process by up to $5m. In addition, COSGEB has started implementing the Foreign Market Support Programme to open and make our COBI markets more competitive, and it supports our SMEs for up to 300,000 liras that want to export as part of this programme. The COBI also implemented the Business Association Support Programme, which our COBIs supported up to $10m in the event of meeting in areas such as production, design, and supply, in order to increase their co-operation among themselves or with large businesses. In addition, the COSGEB supports our COSGEBs for up to $1m under the COBI Development Support Programme to digitize production processes. In order to support our new tech-based entrepreneurs and increase our country's share in high-tech areas, the production industry supports entrepreneurs as much as $370,000 as the Development Development Development Programme. In addition, the COSGEB Funding Programme, which will be covered by COSGEB for 10 points of financing to the entrepreneurs who will start or build their business with support from KOSGEB. In just 2019, KOSGEB supported about 14,000 female entrepreneurs for $252m. COSGEB has raised 50,000 lira financing support to 70,000 liras for women, martyrs, veterans and young people, and in all support programmes, it uses positive discrimination in proportions to 15 per cent. In addition to these studies, my constituency was supported by KOSGEB in 2018 by 2,200 businesses and entrepreneurs, and in 2019 the amount reached $50m as of this month. The Techno Investment Support Programme and Strategic Product Support Programme provided support for 5 major investments with 30 million budgets in Mersin province. In order to develop and grow our country under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we will continue to march on our goals with determination and determination, 2023, 2053, 2071. I wish our central management budget in 2020 was a blessing for our country and nation, and I salute our beloved nation, our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0261par0688	In turn, our Army MP Metin Gündoğdu. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0262par0691	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget of the Turkish Standards Institute of Industry and Technology. Before I begin, I salute you and our beloved nation. Of course, I can't help but mention here a few days ago the so-called genocide bill the U.S. Senate politically issued. I condemn the US Senate's ruling on a so-called genocide bill. He doesn't have any historical judgment, nor does he have on us. The greatest genocide offender in the world is the United States of America. The United States massacred 70 million Indians. At the same time, he continues to slaughter people in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, in many areas for the sake of oil alone. In the African region, France, Algeria, and Rwanda have been massacred and genocided for many years. In the middle of Europe, they ignored genocide in Bosnia. They ignored the massacre of the Armenians in Hodjalı, and now they're out, billing from the Senate with their own broken record. The bill, which is the livelihood of the Armenian diaspora, rules for us as a nation. We, the Turkish nation, are the continuation of a nation that has formed civilizations, and there is no genocide in our past. We have kept the people alive, and we keep the people alive so that the state may live." "We are the continuation of a nation." With these feelings and thoughts, I'd like to move on to my talk on TSE now. At the point of reaching our goal of entering the top 10 economies in the world, among our country's 2023 goals, the rise in production and export levels is of great importance. Today, more than 80 per cent of the world's commodity trade has been found to be affected by standardisation and technical regulations. At this point, there is no blame on global trade to say that common language is standards. The trend in the world is to ensure the international and regional standardisation of their national standards and gain the advantage of competition. The Institute of Turkish Standards, which has been operating in our country since 1954, has been a full member of the International Standardization Organization ISO, which has been a senior organisation for standardisation and fitness assessment, and the International Electrotech Commission has been a full member since the founding of the IEC, the European Standardization Committee CEN and the European Electronic Standardization Committee CENELEG since 2011, and has been the Vice President of the International Documentation Network since 2017. The Turkish Institute of Standards also played an active role in the establishment of the Institute of Standards and Metrology, which was established in Istanbul to implement a lot of co-operation between Islamic countries in the areas of standardisation and fitness assessment under the roof of the Islamic Co-operation Agency. As it turns out, the TSE is a strategic institution that is considered the greatest and most respected in the world today, which is a member of all concerned upper institutions and has an active role here. Today, countries that govern global trade also govern standards. So if we want to get into the top 10 economies in the world, we have to be the country that drives standards. The Institute of Turkish Standards provides for quality and security production for Turkish industrialists both abroad and abroad by closely monitoring the growing importance of adaptability assessment activities in global trade and the growing conditions of competition in this area. Documentation activities are supported by tests and tests conducted in 17 experiments and 3 calibration labs in nine different centres in the country with the TSE brand and are among the most respected documents in the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The TSE is capable and capable of performing all public surveillance activities within the scope of our country's vision of 2023. In addition to these services he has served abroad and abroad, the Turkish Institute of Standards supports free movement of products in our exports through agreements with international regional institutions reaching 125. In 2014, all capital was carried out on behalf of our country's industrialists in Eastern Europe, Far East, and Far East. Mr. President, all the valuable lawmakers that I've passed on to show that during the AK PARTI administrations, as in all areas, we've also performed very serious services on standardization. With this experience and skill, the Institute of Turkish Standards has a respectable place in the world today. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0263par0705	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0262par0706	TSE is not going abroad, but export processes are getting significantly easier. As I put an end to my words here -- Mr. Secretary and the president of TSE, our country -- I ask that our budget be better in 2020, and I salute the Veterans Assembly and those watching us at the beginning of the screens. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0263par0709	In turn, Kırşehir MP Mustafa Özrli. Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the Turkish Patent and Marka Corporation budget 2020. I hereby salute our great nation and you with respect and love. When we look at the balance sheets of global companies, we see that in the 1970s, non-fiscal rights such as patents, brands, design, licenses rose to 85 percent after the 2000s. These figures clearly reveal the importance of intellectual property within the production structure, but also point to the importance that we as a country should give to this area. We can easily say that the last 17 years of Turkey have been successful in testing property rights and that there has been major progress in this area. Our Ministry of Industry and Technology successfully implemented policies aimed at the development of testing property, as the patent, brand, design, and geographical markings moved on from the importance of the country's economy. The capacity of the Turkish Patent and Marka Agency was quickly increased, and in 2016, international research and study authority was established in the United Nations' view of the World Fictional Property Agency. One of our most important goals in this area is that in 2023, our Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation was one of the top ten authorities in the world. During the 2002-2018 period, Turkey's number of domestic patent applications increased by 18 times, and the number of local patent registrations increased 38 times. The number of native patents increased from 6.2 in 2002 to 89.6 per cent in 2018. In 2002-2018, brand applications increased by 3.5 times, increasing by more than 120,000. Turkey has been ranked 1st in Europe since 2011. Turkey's international brand application, which was 461 in 2002, rose to 1.461 in 2018 by 3.2 times and was ranked 12 in the world, and the number of registered geographical markers reached 461. Dear MPs, I would like to express with pride that our Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation, the land of ahite, the capital of the community, Kırşehirthir, has registered its dessert as a geographical sign; its name, taste, taste, and market value, is the latest in the work of our Kaman nut to get a geographical mark on the rock salt. Dear MPs, the Turkish Patent and the Marka Foundation have been given important tasks. Under the leadership of our President, Turkey's 2023 Industrial and Technology Strategy, announced by our Ministry of Industry and Technology, shows significant actions under the strengthening of the intellectual property area. The implementation of the necessary legal regulations in the field of intellectual property to ensure that open innovation and open-source software can be managed effectively in our country; the fictitious work needed to ensure that initiatives supported by strategic public funds remain in Turkey; the action on the rights to fictitious property, such as public patents and useful models, should be carried out, and the actions of the private sector should be carried out in order to improve international competitiveness and branding of software products. Over 3,000 public and private sector employees, including large groups of participants, have been trained by the Sunei Property Rights Education Centre in the area of education and information activities in the field of testing property by our Turkish Patent Agency. Again, as part of the protocol signed between the Ministry of National Education and the Turkish Patent, studies are being carried out to increase the test property awareness of students and teachers, executive of vocational and technical education schools and institutions. At the same time, the Fikri Property Higher License Program was launched within Ankara University. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0264par0719	I'll finish right away, Mr. President. The national college patent competition was launched in 2018 to promote the number of patent applications in our country and to promote university students' invention activities. As part of the Hezarfen Project, each year our COBIs in different cities and sectors provide counseling to improve their capacity for innovation. These activities will pave the way for the discovery of qualified inventions, brands, designs. All these works of Turkish Patentin's thinking and testing in the field of rights are going to increase day by day, and the 2020 budget is to bring blessings to our country and our nation, and I salute all of you with respect and love.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0265par0723	The order is for İstanbul MP Iffet Polat (Islamic Monotheism). Here you go, Mr. Polat.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0266par0726	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Agency (TUBITAK). I salute you and our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] TÜBİTAK has signed some of the most important projects for our country since its establishment in 1963, and has played an active role in Turkey's progress in technology and science, especially since 2002, when we came to power. The EC PARTY government has particularly focused on the fields of science, technology and RD, and has mobilized all the resources to move our country into the future, to bring about technological change and development. As part of special support programmes between 1995 and 2002, the number of support for the project was increased by about 15 times from 2002 to today, providing 11 billion dollars in support for the project. Similarly, support provided under TÜBITAK AR-GE support programmes is limited between 1963-2002 and 6.512 projects with 403m euros, while the budget has increased 36 times from 2002 to today, and the project has been supported by 14.5 billion euros. As part of the Science Human Support Programme, TÜBITAK has increased the number of people supported in 2018 to 18 times the amount of support compared to 2002 and 16 times the amount of support. At this point, over 250,000 scientists were supported by more than 2.6 billion euros in 2002-2019. In 2019, nearly 5,000 scientists received $200 million in support. The Individual Youth Enterprises Programme provided $192m in capital support. Again, 188m euro grants have been provided under the Technology Transfer Office Support Program. Of course, the figures clearly reveal the way past governments and governments view the matter. Today, TÜBITAK is doing strategic work to increase the international competitiveness of Turkey, from the Institute of Space Technologies to the Institute of Defence Industry Research and Development, again, to the recently established Institute of Rayl Transport Technologies, the Institute of Arctic Research and the Artificial Intelligence Institute. Members of parliament, TÜBITAK has also done widespread studies to promote science and technology culture among our young people, with popular science publications, with the ENEAAP Technologies, with science fairs and festivals that continue to be established in 81 districts. ONE of TÜBITAK's most important works in recent years is the International Leader Research Programme. So far 452 Turkish researchers have returned to our country as part of the Yurda Return Programme, which will reverse brain migration. The International Leader Investigators Programme was launched to encourage qualified researchers from abroad, especially Turkish scientists, who have the experience of working abroad, with high-level scientific and technological studies in their fields. 242 researchers from universities and companies around the world have applied to this program, which has been supported by 127. Research agencies such as Amazon, Apple, Bosch, GE, Intel, Siemens, Volvo, CERN, CNRS, Max Planck Institute, and the first 25 universities in the world ranked as Harvard, Stanford, Oxford, MIT, Cambridge, Columbia, were able to return to Turkey with this programme. Each of the researchers who will conduct their research in Turkey's leading universities and research institutions has a duty to raise five hundred and one Ph.D. students. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are very important in this entire success table and in this vision, the share and vision of Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's struggle. We came to Turkey from a country that designed a national electric car, designed a national tank and developed a national engine, which stopped the production of a revolutionary revolutionary automobile, which once built our national aircraft in Turkey.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0267par0735	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0266par0736	But in Turkey, unfortunately, despite the mindsets of the country's best interests, defaming, slandering, slandering, young people like Selçuk Bayraktar, our country continues to bring into existence many projects, including autonomous vehicles, satellites, biotech drugs, electric locomotives, missiles, all the way across the globe. We thank all our young men, our scientists, who serve for our country's independence. Dear lawmakers, this year the TÜBITAK budget is estimated to be $3 billion, 511 million, 62,000, with an increase of 14.2 per cent. It reminds me that this budget will be used in efforts to move Turkey to better places in technology and science, with such feelings and thoughts, to welcome our great Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0267par0739	Gaziantep MP Derya Bakbak is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Bak Bakk.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0268par0742	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Turkish Academy of Sciences. Since its establishment in 1993, the TÜBA has been a supporter of every step of the way to science and has played a encouraging role in science. Our national academy, which has further strengthened the role of science in the past 17 years led by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, will serve the scientific development of our country with the Strategic Plan, which includes the period 2019-2023. The TUBA, which governs our country's scientific policies, continues its activities to encourage science, to embrace scientific thinking in society, to work for the language of science in Turkish, to represent our country internationally, to strengthen international scientific cooperation. In this scope, the International Academy Award, the Honourable Young Man of Science (GEBIP) and the Scientific Copyright Prize Program (TESEP) were implemented, and the steps taken in science were rewarded. So far 13 scientists have been awarded the International Academy Award, 480 young scientists the GEBIP, 203 works the TESEEP Prize, and scientific studies have been supported. We care about taking advantage of young people's energy, their ideas finding more life. In this context, our national academy, which rewards young scientists, is taking positive steps to support the success of our young ones without breaking out of the system. We will build strong Turkey in the light of science, science, research, innovation and innovation. So we called it the national technology move, so we set off with the goal of digital Turkey. The facility of our economic and technological independence and the formula for us being ahead in the global race are based on our investment in our children, our most precious treasure. We've started a full mobilization. In this scope, we're focusing on the strategy of leading children to this area in our subcommittee under the roof of the Great National Assembly of Turkey to direct young people to the fields of science, technology, mathematics and engineering, especially girls. In this process, it is especially important to encourage and support our daughters in science and technology. To illustrate from the 100/2000 Doctoral Scholarship Project, which the Board of Higher Education has started to meet the need for human resources, 2,204 scholarships are made up of 1,324. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our girls are successful, our girls are equipped. It's our job to encourage them into the fields of science, technology, mathematics and engineering. TUBA is conducting studies that enable women to participate in the award-winning system for the academic support of our daughters. Honourable MPs were declared by our presidency in 2019, the Year of Fuat Sezgin. In this case, the Fuat Sezgin Awards, which the TÜBA has committed, will find its owners in the coming days. 29 works have been completed as part of the Turkish-Islamic Cultural Heritage Project, which frees classical works of Turkish-Islamic science and cultural heritage, which are conducted under the protection of our presidency. In addition, as part of the Turkish Dictionary of Science Terms Project, the TÜBA will publish the Dictionary of Engineering in two volumes in the coming months. The TÜBA also fulfils its mission to develop 13 international roofing institutions and the Turkish scientific community's interaction with the world and co-operation. Let us not forget that each civilization produces its own technology, every technology, its own culture and its value. We are the representatives of a civilization that has brought up Ibn Sinai, Al Jazeri, Ibn Haldun, Biruni, Hayyam, Ali Birdçu, and many others. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our great value, Ibn Sina, says that science and art migrate from a place that is not appreciated. The name of this migration is brain migration.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0269par0755	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0268par0756	As part of our work on reversing this migration with the AK PARTI government, many scientists have migrated to the brain, saying, "I am involved in the success story that Turkey will write." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We know that skill is a compliment. The right way, the goal of appreciation, is the most striking factor in revealing human potential. In line with this goal, we will be the leading country in science and art in this geography, with our investment in qualified human resources, as we have included in our 11th Development Plan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Veteran Assembly salutes, and I wish the budget to our country and our nation.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0270par0762	The order is for Ankara MP Zeynep Yıldız.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0271par0763	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the budget of the Turkish Space Agency for 2020. With all due respect, I salute you and our nation who follow us from the beginning. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Basically, we've heard a great deal of talk in the nation's sky, and we've always had a different connection and a different connection with the sky. We who know the science of the lost have actually adopted the discovery of the universe, such as, in fact, as an ancient habit. Let us go to one of the geographys that determines our mental code, and go to Mavehraunnehir. In Maveraunnehir, the most aesthetic form of mathematics is that we see something beyond the blue stones and structures of the sky, where we see the madrassah, the observatory of Ulğ Bey, where we see Ali Birdçu. Ali Birdçu, as you know, is a scientist who produced important works of astronomy during the days of Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror. And there's no need to go too far again, the Cacabey Med in Kırşehir is one of the most important astro-science madrases. See, these are before Copernicus, before Galileo, and belongs to our civilization. (APPLAUSE) Again, the people that our civilization has raised... from the Planets catalog of the worlds to the Jihahanmumum of the Clerk of Chelebi, in fact, a lot of astronomy has grown and astronomical works have been produced within our civilization. If you'd like, let's get to a closer date. Today, there is an institution in the UN that regulates the rights of countries in space, as you know, the International Telecommunications Union. When this Union was formed as an International Telegraph Union in 1865, Sultan Abdulhamit Khan sent Ambassador to Paris, Cemil Bey and Agathon, to attend this conference, and we are one of the 20 states that are the founders of this Union, in terms of that day, so our space journey is actually much, much earlier. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I don't want to bring you down in history, but as a debt of loyalty, I have to reminisce about the initiatives in our history. The Vecihi Freebird built our first plane in 1923. Again, Nuri Demirag, who later became a Democratic Party MP, produced and produced many of its series in 1936. Not only that, he opened a Sky School and raised 290 pilots. Again, I would like to say here that the contributions of Nuri Killigil to the defence industry and our first domestic and national engine factory, Erbakan Hodja's Silver Engine, are also a ruin to our memory. This is actually the story of people who are curious, dreaming, applying, and ending, and today we continue to dream and conclude. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You know, we used to have drones that we had to import before, so why don't we do something that's strategic with my child's mind, and why don't we do it ourselves? They'd tell my elders one thing: they wouldn't. At the point we're here today, we're producing our own drones, our own SIHAs; we're not only producing them; we're exporting them, and that's not enough, in fact, five Turkish companies are already among the first 100 percent of the defense companies in the world. Of course, that's not enough for us, so hopefully we'll continue to work hard to increase the number of these. So, each one of these has been born as a default custodian of the Turkish Space Agency, each of us, in fact, as a common dream of each and every one of us, and it's a blessing to us that under the leadership of our President, it's been given to the power of the EC PARTI. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you'd like to take a look at our current situation in space. We already have our communications satellites in simultaneous orbit, some 3A, TÜRKSAT 4A and TÜRKSAT 4B, about 36,000 kilometers from Ecuador, one of the most basic satellites that allows us to communicate. Again, our first observation satellite, RASAT, and the TKTÜRK-2, again produced by local software, continue to function as our ground-watch satellites. I've obviously been to the workshops in Hakkari, Goatören. I saw something of great value in the eyes of the children there, and I saw light in their eyes, and I saw excitement in their eyes, and I saw faith in their eyes. And I realized that the national technology move was owned by the youth of this country and spread throughout Turkey. At this model satellite competition last TEKNOFEST, the 1st prize went to Zonguldak Bkent Ecevit University, went to the ITÜ, the 3th prize went to Fırat University; at the low altitude competition, the 1st place in the rocket competition, Mehmet Emin Saraç went to Imam Hatip High School, at high altitude to Pamukkale University. So, the Turkish Space Agency, in fact, came out as a product of these young people's dreams, which came out to develop and give them the opportunity.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0272par0777	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0271par0778	Hopefully, as part of the National Space Program, they've already started the program to raise our country's first space people, predicting the completion of this program within three years. Again, the establishment of our launch systems, the maximum use of satellites in matters such as meteorological events, natural disasters, agricultural production, and the production of our spacecraft with local resources and co-ordination with universities at this point are among the priority issues of the Space Agency. Clearly, we will continue to explain patiently what to do and hope for young people, in spite of those who have a great appetite for how to do something that can't be done. (EC PARTY) Because this is not the stand to drown people in despair; this is the platform to create solutions and display vision. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We'll continue to express a realistic vision with excitement. Thank you for listening, thank you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0273par0784	Mr. Bedri Yaşar, MP of Samsun on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0274par0787	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the Ministry of Commerce of the 2020-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute your High Council. Before I begin my speech, I condemn and condemn the mesal of the Chinese administration against our descendants in the Uygur Autonomous Zone. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear lawmakers followed a waved course of growth performance between 2003 and 19. Growth figures, however, followed a fluctuation between 9.4 per cent and negative 4.7 per cent. Turkey's growth average in the 90-year period is about 4.6 per cent year-on-year, and after 2008 it appears to have dropped to 3.3 per cent, according to the old series. Today, as of the end of 2019, 0.9 per cent is now a number of 1 per cent and some of 1. In 2002, our economies, which ranked 17th in the world's rankings of illegitimate domestic product in 2002, rose to 16th place in a positive performance until 2014, but failed to maintain the situation, fell back to the 17th place in 2017. In 2018, Turkey's economy, ranked 18th in the year 2019, is expected to be placed in the 19th or 20th place, given the growth rates predicted by the IMF. You've planned our economy's 2023 goals as the first ten, but it seems we're going to hit the top 10 goals, not the first 20, but that too.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0275par0793	Mr. President, there's a buzzing in the hall, we can't hear it, Mr. Orator, if you'll give me a heads-up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0276par0794	Mr. Bedri, wait a minute... Guys, there's a lot of noise, so if anyone wants to talk, let's go backstage and listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0275par0796	They're walking out of here like they're leaving Henna Night.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0277par0797	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, since 2002, inflation has been rapidly reduced to a stable level. Inflation has been held in single digits for a long time, as part of the transition plan to the Strong Economy, which was implemented after the 2001 crisis. But because production in this healthy and stable growth period could not be reduced to imports, inflation has risen again to double digits, especially under increased foreign currency rates as of August 2018. The government has failed to solve the main macro problems since 2002, with low inflation targeting, and has only succeeded in inflation targeting between 2002 and 2012, but has not been able to prevent the continued increase of inflation since 2012. According to the OECD Inflation Report, food inflation -- 2.9 per cent across member states -- rose to 25.1 per cent in Turkey in December 2018. Although good lawmakers have continued economic growth and averaged 4.5 growth per year over the past 17 years, there has been no positive progress in unemployment rates. Turkey's economy appears to have shown an unemployable growth at this time. The fact that the construction industry, established as the leading sector during the growth period, does not contribute to permanent employment is a key indicator. The construction industry is also having serious problems at this time. The number of licenses provided by municipalities does not exceed the fingers of one hand. On the other hand, the rate of young unemployed between the ages of 15 and 26 has risen to 27.4. If only our young friends who address here had said on behalf of the young ones that we would find 100,000 engineers in the 2020 budget, we would appoint 50,000 nurses, we would appoint 100,000 teachers. Of course, we would be proud, we would be happy that our young friends were involved in politics, and we would be happy to address the unemployment issue on the stand, but I wish they had a little bit of a finger on it. Hopefully, they'll take that into account in their next address. Dear lawmakers, whether policies have been determined to reduce production's dependence on imports or not, high technology has not been improved enough to increase exports. The government has planned this at 2%, and unfortunately, its current rate has not exceeded 1%. Likewise, despite the dozens of incentives brought in, unfortunately, the difference in interstate development has not been eliminated. This problem continues the same way, and investments are particularly concentrated in certain areas. Of course, there's also export targets in parallel with this. The 2023 target was 500 billion, the number that was revised today is 277 billion. As of 2018, this figure is targeted at 168 billion and 170 billion at the end of 2019. We hope that your goals will hold, but with these figures, with these figures, it doesn't look like your $277 billion target in 2023 will hold. We know from here that neither your inflation goals nor your growth goals, nor your aims for unemployment, nor any of your targets for foreign currency. People have paid the price for unresolved goals, but the consequences of these goals have also come in different ways. Dear lawmakers, of course, when we talk about foreign trade, today we lack the number of employees working at foreign trade offices in different parts of the country. As the number is missing, it has to be above certain standards of quality. The task of our foreign trade attaches is to solve all the problems of our businessmen there, to help them with their legal problems, to help them with their accounting papers, to give them the information they need about the market, to provide our people with the necessary information, documents, and equipment if there's anything to be done about it, if there's a branch to be opened. That's not enough, but if you have to meet him at the airport, make hotel reservations, open his way, it should be the first duty of trade attachés. Let's not forget that China today has this economic size... as many employees working at the embassy of China today as they do in trade attaches. The first way to grow up, to achieve goals, lies to revisit these trade attaches. Of course, when our businessmen go abroad, they have serious problems. Mr. Minister, in particular, it's a serious problem for companies operating in Central Asia. Turkmenistan is in charge. We need to stand by your side until the end when we send our businessmen to this geography. We can't solve the problems of businessmen leaving them alone with their economy, their democracy, their undeveloped countries. The work we're sending here is the first duty of the government to follow what our people, our contractors, will receive, and I remind you of that from here. Dear lawmakers, of course, this recession in the economy has affected the trades and artists, whose numbers are 1,800,000 today. Trust is what the tradesman expects most. You can't talk about the development of the economy, of trade unless it's a trust element. In the past, two merchants used to say to each other, "If the money is in need of a stamp, take it and meet the check; I will bring it tomorrow and replace it." I'm asking all the lawmakers here, how many tradesmen do you have around you today? On the contrary today, the number of shopkeepers who can't pay off their debts, who are struggling, who have shut down, who can't keep up their trade, who are depressed beyond your comprehension. The writer who threw the safe in 2002 found a job at the Metropolitan Municipality. Look, there's no one talking about them today, but today in Antalya, who committed suicide as a result of unemployment, they're left with the dramas of the people in Istanbul. Today, the tradesman expects from you, from us: he has tax and SGK debts -- you're consolidating the debt of large companies -- at least in this period, he has demands for the restructuring of SGK and tax debt. On the other hand, they have checks written. It's not like us to look at every check as a fraud. We have friends who make million-dollar turnovers, but they can't pay their checks as far as the situation is concerned. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm putting it together, Mayor. We have friends who went to jail for a bad check when they couldn't pay their checks. It doesn't help them to go to jail, to pay off their debts; it's not a cure. Besides, this Czech Act came out in 2016. There's no difference between the number of checks written before 2016 and the number of checks written after that. So at some point, it's a law without sanctions. We also need the necessary work, the arrangements, to be done as soon as possible, and we remind him of that from here. On the other hand, we've increased the number of jobs with employees who have been employed, taken over the city. Dear friends, look, there are 63 vocational high schools in Samsun. Friends who graduated from here are far from performing the profession; the electrician can't do electricity, the mechanic can't fix the plumbing. So as long as we and we don't bond between investors and factories, as long as we can't raise qualified employees, we can't avoid unemployment. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0278par0815	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0277par0816	If we treat the artist, the people whose hands are dirty here as second-rate people, if we underestimate these professions, we'll have a hard time finding people to do these jobs with, all of you, in his knowledge. We need to brag about the number of vocational high schools, not the number of professional high schools, but the fact that they're raising qualified employees, and in the same way, we need to brag about the fact that we have qualified college graduates, not the increased number of colleges. I wish the budget of 2020 to be a blessing to our government, to our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0278par0819	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0279par0820	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0278par0821	The Deputy Directors of the Group are supposed to be the last to speak...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0279par0822	Since it's relevant, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0278par0823	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0279par0826	Mr. President, there's no such habit, but since it's relevant, Mr. Secretary, while I'm here, I'd like to point out our Minister of Commerce's sensitivity to this matter. Mr. Secretary, the speaker on the stand just said some things about the problems of businessmen working abroad. The President's sensitivity to businessmen working abroad is evident; everyone sees it with concrete examples. However, you need to be a little more specific about this, because businesspeople working abroad are having serious problems, and in this regard, your Ministry needs to be more active. I'll give you an example: there are no foreign trade advisors in Ukraine. The largest volume of trade in Ukraine, after the United States and Turkey's foreign trade advisor there, you haven't made this appointment in four months. A friend in the position of the second scribe there performs the task, even though he has no assignment. What do businessmen who live there have to do to solve their problems? I've made a written motion on this, but you haven't answered yet. I just wanted to stress once again that you need to pay a little more attention to the problems of businessmen working abroad. Thank you. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0280par0880	In turn, it belongs to Mr. Aylin Gutsman of Isparta. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0281par0883	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that we hate the policy of assimilation and human rights violations against our relatives in East Turkistan, and that Turkey must immediately end this persecution with international initiatives. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I've made a commitment to the Competitiveness Agency and the Hellal Accreditation Agency budget. First of all, I'd like to thank the officials of the Competitiveness Association, who have contributed substantially to the creation of market economic conditions in our country today. The foundation is earmarked for 115 million and 750 thousand dollars in the 2020 budget, and the institution is a fundamental principle for our extremely important trade because its relations in the market economy are competitive. One of the Central Bank's most important shareholders in achieving inflation targets is the Competitive Association. In the current globalization environment and in an out-open economy, we must have a production structure that can produce the products and services that the world markets demand at the lowest price and with the highest quality. The main stone of this economic structure is the distribution and use of country's resources among sectors in the most efficient and efficient way. There is a set of preconditions for the establishment of an effective competitive environment in an economy: the establishment of macroeconomic stability, the liberalisation of foreign trade, the facilitating and exiting of companies, the reducing of tax and similar public obligations, the establishment of effective regulation and control structures, the enhancing of non-region, the establishment of transparency in public goods and services, and perhaps most importantly, an effective justice system in public goods and services. These are essential to the establishment of the competitive environment. Why did I count these? At this point, we have to go backwards from the end, back to the justice system, which, unfortunately, is the main source of our democracy's non-functioning institutions, the non-investigative climate, and the problems of our economy that are actually drying out. Perhaps our most embezzled institution is judgment. In fact, there have been significant distances in the past. With the customs union, the process of liberalisation in foreign trade was complete. The efficient and independent regulation and control mechanisms were activated in financial and energy markets, and I would say, well, I would say, not to take a hint, but to emphasize it, all of it in the past. It's a major issue in competition policy, off-the-book economics. Unfortunately, our country has an off-the-book rate of 50 percent today. Our problem is we don't produce enough, you know, off the record, you know, target production. What caused the break-in? It's the financial burden of being on the record. The result is that our exports are limited to relatively low-density goods. Right here, we need to stress the importance of trust in our economy. Is there such a trust? I did. What happened? Burned to the ground. What do we do? Let's increase the number of qualified manpowers in our country and build our industry to demand and produce technology. How does that work? You'll have a good competitive policy. Who's gonna do it? Don't be afraid, the world knows what you can't do. At the point where you've brought the Turkish economy in 17 years, the institution's job is very difficult. Let's just say it from the top. I'd like to ask the Minister to answer the questions that remain in our minds. I'm asking on behalf of the Turkish nation. The plan budget presentations increased by 8.5 per cent in the first eight months of the year. Question: Is this due to the loss of Turkish lira? One more important question: what is the share of imports in our exports? So what's the import value of $168 billion in exports in 2018? We've exported this much, there's import input in this much, so this much is clear profit. We're asking you to do this.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0282par0891	Madam Secretary, he's offering you questions, Your Honor.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0281par0892	The agency reported seven views last year as part of privatisation. Speaking of privatisation, two days ago, when Defence Minister Mr. Akar was defending the privatisation of the Tank Palet Factory, Mr. President Demirel was referring to the construction of the Ford factory, it was a matter of the land of SECA, and Mr. President Demirel said, "I'll even give you the garden of Çankaya. " We didn't get a word out of the president that day, so it's up to me to make a correction here. Once, there's no similarities between the two events. Ironel said that for a wonderful factory that would build from scratch and create employment, he put 700 million dollars in his pocket, saying, "Let's build the factory." He's going to spend $15 million, he's going to complete all the shortcomings of the Shelley Medical School and the university. It also guarantees the export of $1 billion of the goods it produces every year in this factory, and if necessary, I'll give you the garden of the Chankaya Mansion, so that this factory can be built. This is a battle of civilization. This fight is a fight to build a school, a science high school, a hospital, a road, a dam, an air square. One of the three most exported companies since 2004 is the export champion of the automotive sector for the past eight years and has been Turkey's export champion for four years. Those words were made to build a company that employs nearly 11,000 people and has a 1,100-strong staff of R&D engineers and an amazing R&D organization on a vacant lot. It's made from nothing. Those words came out of Mr. President Demirel's mouth as an exaggeration, and I was there. And the Tank Palet Factory is the first military factory in the Republic of Turkey, so the Republic of Turkey has a very important spiritual place in the national defence industry. Our tanks did not move forward because of the trouble in the palettes of the 1974 Cypriot Peace Movement; a benevolent citizen donated his land to the TSK, and with the help of the people, the Tank Palet Factory was established. Signed, President Fahri Korkurk and Prime Minister Süleyman Demirel. Mr. Minister Akar is obviously wrong about his very well-intentioned metaphor here, the incident, I think, he didn't follow! Dear ruling owners, looking at the 17-year balance sheet now, we see that our republic has sold out all its local and national public institutions. The sale of 273 companies has been processed, privatisation from 1986 to 2002 is $8.2 billion, the sale from 2002 to today is $62 billion. First, the factories that built the factory were dispossessed, then industrial institutions. TECEL, LOOKER, KROM, Teaeli and Black Sea Copper Enterprises, Eti Alumi Aluminum Sugar Factorys... 20 percent of Turkish Airways were sold; Turkish TELEKOM became Lebanese. One of the largest industrial institutions was TEPRAS, PETCIM and ERDEMIR, the Great Ankara Hotel and Efes Hotel, Mersin Harbor and many other facilities... the capital, Sakarya, Meram Electric, public lands... and many of them still have iron signatures of the republics you don't like. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] You've tried to do public-private cooperation projects, passenger, patient, vehicle guaranteed to pass. Your projects, which will be paid $100 billion in twenty-five years from the government's treasury, are what you call your projects. The result was that three of the 10 people were in prison for economic crime, and when you arrived, you were one; those who were in prison for drug use were up from 3,000 to 22,000; 21 million for executive files; the number of unemployed was up from 2 million to 4.5 million; the external debt went from 129 billion to $447 billion. In the last year, electricity has increased by 60 percent, natural gas by 52 percent, fuel by 30 per cent, monopoly by 60 per cent, white meat by 40 per cent, milk by 50 per cent, sugar by 30 per cent. Mothers are anxious, fathers are on rooftops with suicide notes in their pockets, young people are desperate, and those waiting to be appointed in the agriculture you promised today are in front of the statue of Ulus. I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, because you couldn't, you couldn't. I see you can't solve your own problems. I'm guessing how much the system upsets you, too. We, the Turkish nation, do not give you our blessing. Speaking of which, there was a Hellal Accreditation Agency, which I should mention. It's the only institution that has the authority to give out a good certificate, and this HAK has not received the application it deserves. No one has applied since it was founded in 2018. This has been criticised in the Plan and Budget Commission, and opposition lawmakers stressed that the institution has spent millions of dollars in two years without any service, and its spending has now become a ban. Despite criticism, the 2020 budget of the HAK has been increased by 8.1 per cent and has been raised to $4,11,000. There was no application, there was no, it was empty, it was empty... one of which is right, I'm asking you, is it lawful for a board of directors to be given 3 times a month as much peace as 9,000 additional indicators are multiplied by the number of officers in each meeting, in this strait, for God's sake?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0283par0901	Way to go! Way to go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0284par0903	It is lawful according to the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0281par0904	I repeat, we don't give away our rights. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Budget rights, the indispensable of democracy. We're talking about where our taxes go, the budget! Unfortunately, Turkey now has two budgets. One of them is spoken here; the other is a lot of resources that have been cut off from the budget. It's up to the President, out of the Court and out of the Public Contraction Act, like the Entity Fund. It's left to the choice of political authority, and there's no law control, and there's no control of within-budget institutions. The Court's operational activities have been restricted. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, two minutes, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0285par0909	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0281par0910	Report coming in to the House, that's all. The ministers are appointed, responsible for the position they've been assigned to. Here the budget will be voted again in a moment, but this vote is no different than a line in the system; it is ineffective in terms of making the necessary complaints of public representation. The cure for all is certain -- democracy, the functioning of the state of law and the operating of the regime; the resolving of the parliamentary system. That's tomorrow's job, and I'm responsible for doing the best I can here today. I want to ask you now from this great bench where I can speak the people's demands: we've been talking about minimum wage, poverty, poverty, and we haven't received an answer. So let me put it this way, respected lawmakers, you don't understand hunger, okay... when you come with the promise of corruption, bans and poverty in your power, it's now in the dark sky of my beautiful hometown, and it's no longer refreshing the cold running water or the green forests of the farmer, the peasant, the pensioner, the worker, the officer's distress. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is the end, Mr. President. Now, I'm asking you, is there a limit to your power? What's your topping limit? If so, let us know, so we can tell those who have given up hope. We know, in the first election, you're the passenger, we're the inn. We're hopeful. That's why I'm asking for those who have given up hope, and I'm speaking for those who have lost hope, here, to our precious nation. We will awaken to peace, happiness, peace, trust, brotherhood. How do I know? I'm counting on democracy. I'm counting on you. I'm talking about the good luck of our 2020 budget. The heart would wish that this budget would meet the urgent needs of our citizens, but it didn't, God willing, allow us to do better. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0286par0918	In order to speak, Ankara MP Koray Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0287par0921	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Fine Party of the Ministry of Industry and Technology budget. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation who are watching over us on television. I'd like to begin by condemning the inhuman persecution and torture of our Muslim Turkish counterparts in East Turkistan. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Although the state of the Republic of Turkey was founded in 1923, it has a state tradition of thousands of years. In our understanding, continuity is essential in state and public service. But the government and its environment gave such airs that it was as if the AK PARTY had done everything in the country, as if the governments before it had done nothing, that Turkey had introduced civilization, advanced technology, as if this power had introduced it. When we do these reviews, we don't ignore what's being done, we thank everyone who's put rocks on top of rocks in this country. Now, I'd like to remind you of an extremely painful and exemplary event. My goal is not to refresh the pain, but to help the rulers and the government learn from it. A year ago, there was a high-speed train accident in Ankara on December 13, 2018. Nine of our citizens were killed, while 86 of our citizens were injured. There were grave flaws, misdemeanors, neglects in this accident that came to light. The line covering the location of the accident had been activated without a signalization system. Just a year ago, I brought it up on the agenda of Parliament, and I filed a written question motion asking the Minister to answer, and in my speech on behalf of the GOOD PARTY Group, I made a detailed statement. However, I was amazed by the answer to the question motion. I'll mention the answer later. The so-called presidential government system, the one-man system, is no longer the headquarters of the Gazi Assembly of national will; the verbal question motion has been lifted, no vote of confidence, no gene, and the opening of an investigation is almost a decree. The ministers of the parties and parties who hold power have only to have 201 MPs in parliament to avoid accountability. The opposition will find 400 members of parliament, send the ministers to the Supreme Court, and open their way for them to answer... almost impossible. The system operates officially as the majority of the minority, not by the majority, but by the minority. However, 301 should have been enough for the transfer to the Supreme Court. And that's what we call the system, the system, the order of one man. Now, let's get back to the written question motion. In addition to the parliamentary inquiry motion, lawmakers remained in this system, they had the right to a written question motion, a constitutional audit, which no longer works. Our questions are often not answered; sometimes they are answered late, and most importantly, they are given irrelevant answers. Parliamentary chair, no matter what the ministry has written, can't go back to the ministry and say, "This is not in line with the format, answer it properly." The ministers aren't responding, they're telling us what they're doing. That's exactly the answer I got a year ago when the question I made about the high-speed train crash was passed. The answer stands on the Turkish Grand National Assembly website, where our citizens can come in and look. When you read the answer, you're amazed. In response, all high-speed train lines are signaled. There are relevant regulations, regulations, regulations, generalizations, necessary trainings. High-speed train lines are monitored by camera for 24 hours. In response, one cannot help but ask: How did this accident occur if the railroad administration had no negligence? Who's responsible for this accident? If your technology is so high, why did this accident happen? Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the high-speed train crash that occurred exactly a year ago is actually a test of this irresponsible power with technology. In that accident, Professor Berahiddin Colonelrak, a fellow scientist from Tripoli, whom I knew well, also a scientist around the world, also lost his life. Once again, I ask the Lord God to have mercy on him and on those who lost their lives in the accident. Berahiddin Hoxha, a professor of astronomy and space science, was on the cover of a worldwide magazine for predicting the behavior of planets, but unfortunately he was not the victim of an understanding of government that could not predict a rapid train crash in this day and age. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Ministry of Industry and Technology, of course, must continue and continue its role and role as regulatory, controlling, guiding and encouraging in the country's industry and technology policies. In order to develop new technologies and keep the country from falling behind in scientific studies, scientific research must be encouraged. TO support and encourage such work, the TUBITAK will also need to work more objectively and quickly. Regretfully, though, we see TUBITAK (TÜBITAK) becoming more and more lumpy. Advantage assignments to administrative positions harm this distinguished institution. Admissions should be paid attention to merit. Another problem with TUBITAK is the slowness of project processes. This slowness is a bad influence on scientific research, and it's a blow to scientists' research and enthusiasm. The measures to make the system faster and more objective must be taken immediately. The Turkish economy became an economy that had to import medium and high technology in order to export low technology, and thus began to open up trades for transportation, agricultural raw materials, capital goods, energy and industry. In the end, the point is the middle income trap, as he puts it in literature. Other developing economies have increased RD spending during this period, carried out technological transformation in their economies, thus providing permanent growth. Despite the aim of DG spending to increase its GDP to 2 per cent, the current rate has failed to exceed 1 per cent. In the party programme, which he explained to our people in almost every area, he gave special importance to RD and high technology, emphasising agriculture, health, industrial, and RD activities from universities. As a party, we will encourage agricultural R&D, establish the Ataturk Forest Farm Institute for Agricultural Research and Technology Development, provide access to R&D studies at universities and educational research hospitals; implement a program that is capable of developing drugs and treatments for cancer and heart disease. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, technology policies have become a direct influence on nature, the environment, and most importantly on human life. The country's agenda is on this issue, with the law recently passed that the thermal power plants should be delayed by the postponing of chimney filters. Didn't Mr. Erdogan know about his party's proposal? As far as we're concerned, there's no possibility or possibility. Mr. Erdogan wears his AK PARTI head hat, offers an offer to Parliament, considers the public sentiment followed by the fact that he wears his presidential hat and vetos the law his party offers. Mr. President doesn't say a word about Deepless Lake, which has been looted and destroyed under state supervision, but is interfering with the zoning change in İzmir. That's how the AK PARTY-style democracy works. Democracys, not by the mercy of people, work on the basis that legislation, conduct and justice control each other and balance each other. Dear lawmakers, our country must put aside wastelessness and move on to the economy of savings and production. Every pen must be saved, but it must not be saved from RD. We gave similar advice last year. Again and again, tirelessly and tirelessly: there is no saving money for unnecessary spending, luxury, luxury, and, most importantly, the reputation for covering waste. There is no saving his understanding from GER-GE. It must be replaced with his understanding. (APPLAUSE) Even Allah, the Most High, says, "Eat and drink not, but waste not; for Allah does not love the wasteful." We're in a time when the world is changing rapidly. The main source of this change is technology. Today, the power of governments is measured by its technological achievements. Our government's main priority should be innovation, technological innovation. Dear lawmakers, the government of the former republic has now set its sights on the basic institutions of the Republic of Turkey, which have set its sights on tax auction supporters under the name of privatisation of the ornaments of our state. The new goal is to evacuate the capital, Ankara, the headquarters of the organisation and salvation. After the Banking Editing and Control Agency, the Capital Market Board, public banks and Treasury, the decision has now been made to move the Central Bank to Istanbul. Mr. Durmus Yilmaz, our Ankara MP and former Central Bank President, asked Mr. Minister clearly: What good does Turkey have in moving the Central Bank to Istanbul? What can the Central Bank do with its presence in Ankara, and what will it do when it goes to Istanbul? What can the Central Bank do in money markets, foreign currency markets, trade union loans, derivative products markets, but when it goes to Istanbul? Why is this institution moving out of Ankara? Mr. Minister has not answered any of these questions, but has announced that the move of the Central Bank will be completed by 2022. After the move of the Central Bank, this power must be conducted from one centre. None of us should be surprised if he moves the Treasury and Finance Ministry to Istanbul and then moves to the centre of all ministries in Istanbul. Because we're all going through a process where you don't know what's in your head, and you don't know what's in your head, and you go around the back, and it's not told to our nation in a clear way. Let's see what happens. If we wait with logic, Ankara will be emptied and Ankara will be officially removed from the capital, even if it isn't. That's the way it is. We, the good party, will join hands with our nation, protect Ankara's rights and law. We will take care of Ankara until the end, and Ankara will remain the capital forever. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear lawmakers are back on the country's agenda today because of a lawsuit that left 25 people dead and 328 others injured in the train crash in Chorus. The case that was seen hurt our nation's conscience just as much as the accident itself. Why is Mr. President being insensitive to the matter? Everyone's asking that question. Mr. President, did he not hear the words of the grandfather of Oğuz Arda Selda, who died in the accident, who shed tears of millions? At the same time, in the train crash in Kütahiah, the lineman was identified as a criminal. In Ankara's high-speed train crash, the lower level will be fined as well. The trial of the accident will begin on January 13, 2020, and you can guess when it will come to an end. So what's the tactic? Spread the time, hide the real criminals, don't get involved in a search to find the real criminals. In cases like this, the workers, the technicians, the mechanics, the scissor, and the lower-level wretches are punished, but not a single person from managers, politicians is punished, just as we can't find his political foot, just as we can't dare to investigate it. Do these executives, these politicians, have no responsibility for these random accidents? Such law, such order, such justice? In a controversial referendum, the presidential system of government is a freakic system that's evolved into a union of forces. The president, in the case of the absolute ruler of the administration, appoints the ministers, relieves them of their duties, direct command of the administration. The same President makes the list of MPs as the ruling party's President, so he controls the legislation, just as the law that extends the filters of the factory chimneys comes and goes back to Parliament. In addition to his powers in the high judiciary, he directs seven of the 13 members of the highest court, the Supreme Court, tosss six of them out of the elected Parliament. The president puts himself in the place of the legislature and makes the decrees, so that the number of decrees is higher than the laws issued at the same time. He approves the amendment to the zoning plan for about two acres with a decree. Yes, you can believe in your ears, and you can look at November 14, 2018, and the official newspaper 30595. Dear friends, there is no such absurd, meaningless event in any democratic country in the world. Can you imagine, with the presidential decree, a zoning change in a parcel of about 1,900 square metres can be done with the presidential decree. One of the most negative consequences of this freaky system is the defusing of the budget rights that are the basis of democracy. In democracies, public revenues and expenses are conducted by one hand and subject to control. Today, we are also dealing with a budget called the Turkish Entity Fund and a parallel budget that has been therefore excluded. Last time, the Foundations Bank joined, and the head of that fund is our President, and as his assistant, our Minister in charge of treasure and finance. The Parliament cannot supervise this budget, the Court cannot inspect it, the account is not given. I've done it, I've spent it. The whole nation's rights are enjoyed. One of the worst consequences of this freaky system is that people's sense of trust in justice is destroyed. As Hazreti Omar said, justice is the foundation of the estate. As Ali the Lord said, the religion of the state is justice. He commands you to give the Koran trusts to its people and to judge them with justice when you rule among them. It is not possible to maintain a government without merit, without justice, without the right of the oppressed. There's no way this freaky system can carry Turkey any longer. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the cure for this freak system is the improved parliamentary system.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0288par0947	Minister, let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0287par0948	I'm picking it up. As our president-in-chief, Mr. Coral Aksener, says, the improved parliamentary system is a recipe for right and justice. It's the motto of young people who work, produce, trust in the future and their country. It's the key to our people who respect each other, the talking Turkey. The restored parliamentary system is a recipe for democratic republic, economic salvation. This prescription is to give people back what's theirs, the people's will to regain power. As I end my words with these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all on behalf of the Goodwill and Good fortune of our country and the entire budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology in 2020.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit03spe0289par0952	I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0289par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, I'll have it read and put to your votes. At a meeting Friday (13/12/2019) of the Council of Counsellors, it has been suggested that the session of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be put on the agenda and put to the approval of the General Assembly for the unification of its vote today. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu Free Special His group is acting president of the vice president group. Hakı Saruhan Oluç Erkan Akçay His group is acting president of the vice president group. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, the presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a statement saying that the US Senate's decision on the recognition of the so-called Armenian genocide has been condemned, rejected, and counted as a non-existent, and I will read it and submit it to your votes. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly We condemn and deny the decision of the United States Senate on alleged Armenian genocide by disregarding the basic rules of international law by misleading historical facts. This decision, which has no legal value and will not bind the Senate after the next election, is clearly part of a dirty political game. This is a worthless attitude to read history on the basis of the simple interests of arbitrary and daily policy. Turkey's Grand National Assembly reiterates it is not parliament's job to rule on historical events. The so-called Armenian genocide resolution has been in and out of the United States Senate many times before; it makes sense that when the interests of the United States conflict with Turkey's policies, it is brought to the Senate's agenda. It's not really about the Armenians and the 1915 events; it's not about the United States Senate that cares about historical events; it's not about Turkey to develop policy in accordance with the demands of the United States or the United States of America. Turkey's stance on this is clear and clear: If historical facts are curious and cared for, scientists can inform the world with reliable research. Turkey has opened its rich archives to all researchers, including Armenians, but its archives have not been opened to researchers, including the most important ones in Armenia. It is not proper for parliaments, including the United States Senate, to submit to black propaganda and racist approaches by concealing information and documents. We regret that longtime strategic alliance and friendship between Turkey and the United States were destroyed by using dark accounts. The United States Senate now has to live with the burden of a dirty conscience that it has brought into its history. Turkey will continue to maintain its national interests and security in its territory, regardless of the United States Senate's decision and the type of printing tools. This decision of the United States Senate is ruled by both history and law, as well as by our beloved nation and the merciful people of the world. We declare to the public that we are expressing our nation's common commitment and solidarity against this decision, and that it is a right of course for Turkey to respond in accordance with international reciprocity. With these thoughts, I would like to submit to the approval of the General Assembly of the United States Senate on the full condemnation of its ruling, rejection, destruction, and the publication of the decision made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the Official Gazette. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] I'll make a promise to the Deputy Directors of the Group, in order of the importance of the matter. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0290par0040	Mr. President, we strongly condemn this decision of the imperialist, lawless state of the 21st century, America, who has dared to pass judgment on a matter that historians have never ruled, by a spoiled history of economic and military power behind him. To say that there were genocides in that land, to say that there were a number of people slaughtered in millions, is indiscriminate in one word. If they want to see a massacre, if they see the recent massacres in Bosnia and Turkey, bodies have gushed out from beneath the ground. Nowhere in Anatolia today is a single square centimeter of land where bodies gush out from beneath the ground. This is a manifestation of the imperialist pressure that only the United States and only the United States have applied to the world, especially Turkey, which it recently observed. Once again, I'd like to say that we strongly condemn this as a good party.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0289par0042	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0291par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of parliament, the decision made in the United States Senate regarding the 1915 events is a political decision made to threaten Turkey with allegedly no historical and legal basis. This rotten step is worth less than the humming of flies in our eyes. Those who try to manipulate historical cases into their politics are condemned and embarrassed in front of history and mankind. More than 70 million Indians have been massacred by more than 35 million Africans, massacred hundreds of thousands of people in the Second World War of Hiroshima and Nagasaki with atomic bombs in the Second World War, and killed innocent people in dozens of countries, provoked and broken by terrorist organizations, PKK/PYD and DAEŞ. From whomever it comes, despite all the threats, all the unjust attempts, Turkey will continue its position in Syria, the Mediterranean, the region's politics and global politics with determination, in spite of its national interests. As the National Movement Party of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Group, Turkey states that we will vote yes, we will vote yes, we will vote yes, and we reject this US Senate resolution, and we consider it a no-go. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0292par0049	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0293par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we do not support the proposed presidential thesis because we believe that the way to face this great disaster in history has not been passed by such decisions in various countries' parliaments. Neither the law adopted by the U.S. Congress nor the declaration prepared here serves to find the truth and heal the wounds. We don't approve of attempts to materialise such great suffering in international power maneuvers. What we need to do is create conditions that prevent such maneuvers, which are possible and necessary. We want all issues concerning the great suffering of the Armenian people to be freely investigated and discussed in this country. As long as we can't do that, it's clear that other places will be used for that purpose. This problem and these sufferings are ours, and we're the ones who are going to argue, and if we can face it, we can heal the wounds. We believe that free discussion and sharing pain are vital to social peace. This Parliament can and should pioneer for this. Once again, we emphasize that we are ready to make every contribution and take responsibility. It is the duty of the people of this land to face the sufferings of this land.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0292par0053	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0294par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the General Assembly. Mr. President, Turkey has been the closest country to this debate that has been going on for years. Turkey has carefully underlined that since the beginning of these discussions, we will open our archives and that it should be left to historians by opening the archives of the other side. Mr. President, without a doubt, there have been countless sad events in the history of the state-run state of Asia Minor. However, we have learned to live in brotherhood with Muslim, Christian, Jewish, Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, Greek, Bosnian, and Georgian; Alevi, Sunni, Laz, and Ezidi. That's not too colorful a weakness. This land has been seen as a wealth for this geography, so it should be seen. Historical events cannot be materialized in the interests of imperial forces in the Middle East. The Republican People's Party has voiced for several times that verdicts and decisions regarding historical events are not the work of parliaments, but historians. Turkey and our beloved nation are strong and determined to leave no threat of imperial power. We pledge and declare that we will vote in favor of the presidential thesis. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0295par0061	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0296par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, I want to make an example of an ideal state in which the international rule of law is to live together for all mankind and to respect all human rights and laws, by personally implementing the practice of all lawmakers who are present here, in this country, the religion of paradise, the language, the race, the colour of history, the colour of the nation, and the importance of slandering the so-called state of all mankind by Arnold Toynbee, with the testimony of Arnold Toynbee, and for four centuries, the importance of the decision of all peoples in Bosnia, the Serbs, the Croats, the Croats, the Jews, the Jews, and the so-called leaders of Jerusalem. After that, I would like to point out that the decision of the United States Senate is both in the eyes of our great nation and state in the eyes of our great nation and in the conscience of all mankind, in the hands of all human beings, null and void. Yes, a hundred years ago, with the spirit of Kuvaimillia, the Turkish nation had the right to sink its will for its own future. If you have it, this country will not sink. In the framework of the principle of the Republic of Turkey, the People's Assembly will now declare and cry out to the world today, hopefully, by giving the decision of Parliament, by voting yes, to vote. On this occasion, as the AK PARTI Group, it says that we, Mr. Speaker of the Assembly, sent not by a fact but by a fact, but by a fact that we are going to decide against this so-called decision based on slander, based on a fabrication of perception management, based on a lie, and from here, from Turkey's Grand National Assembly, to live together a hundred years ago, to support the rights and law of the people, that we are keeping the struggle alive today, and I respectfully salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0297par0067	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I submit to your votes the presidential statement that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] Dear lawmakers, I want to thank you all for your support for the recommendation of the General Assembly in a national matter by our Parliament Speaker Mustafa Sentop. This decision in the United States Senate is neither legitimate in the conscience of the Turkish nation nor in the universal law. The United States Senate has also received the best response by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, all of these events have led to the stronger formation of the unity and unity of our nation. Our great nation, led by justice to the human family, will make the best of the process. I hereby salute the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with my deepest respect. [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] Mr. Abdurrahman, you had an alibi.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0298par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to our Minister of Commerce, Mr. Rusar Pekcan. Antalya's free trade zone, which was second in 21 free trade zones in Turkey, began operating on 14 November 1987. It currently operates in an area of 84,000 square meters. On March 9th this year, did you take the project for the expansion of the Antalya free trade zone, which you visited and studied for 2020? My second question to our Minister of Industry and Technology, Mr. Mustafa Varank, is that by implementing the solar energy system project in our country to reduce energy costs in organised industrial areas, we can reduce the energy cost of our industry and increase the competitiveness of the industry. In this area, a joint investment campaign between your Ministry and our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources will serve as a special incentive for the OSB, for the benefit of both our industry and our country. What are your thoughts on this project?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit04spe0299par0081	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0299par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 The commission is in place. İstanbul MP Iştin Nuhoğlu will speak on behalf of the group. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0300par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I begin by saying hello. Before I start speaking on the budget, I'd like to talk about the most recent, most important and urgent problem of the world's Turkicism, which is the harsh persecution of East Turkistan, Uygur Turks. For more than 70 years, our 30 million relatives have been living in captivity; in recent years, they have been moaning with increasing persecution, torture, assimilation, unjust arrest, family privacy and attacks on sacred values. The red Chinese imperialism that we know very well continues to be cruel, regardless of any sound or reaction. Unfortunately, in such a critical period, many countries and many NGOs in the world have reacted, while those who govern the state of the Republic of Turkey have no attitude towards the foreign Turks, the Turkish world, and especially East Turkistan. I strongly condemn those who are unaware of being silent for the credits to be taken, even of saying that our relatives there are comfortable and happy. The Turkish nation is with our relatives with all its heart and is looking for an opportunity to support them. The last President of East Turkistan, Jesus Joseph Alptekin, who had known him well before the occupation, remembers him with mercy, and greets all the relatives who continue his struggle. The honorable MPs belong to the people through Parliament, which they have chosen to determine public revenues and expenses since the historic process ended their taxing and taxing. In most European countries, tax collection powers belonging to churches and dignitaries were lifted after the French Revolution of 1789. Although the constitution of 1876 was the first development in our country, the right to budget on behalf of the people was granted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with the Constitution of 1924. This right was granted to parliament by 2018 as a budget prepared by governments. The audit of budget applications is made by the Court on behalf of the Parliament and presented to the information of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The central administration has been perceived as insecurity and has even led to the fall of governments if budget law proposals and budget law proposals are adopted by all lawmakers and political parties after they have been evaluated in parliament. After the regime was changed and passed over to the party president's system, there was a limit on the public's budget rights; the understanding and implementation of the vote of trust are over; the government's ability to draft budgets has also passed on to the President. According to this, the public elects the President and the Assembly, but cannot exercise the right to oversee the government, whether they like the actions or not, it is out of the question. The structure and power of the Plan and Budget Commission, which discussed the budget on behalf of parliament, also changed. We've all seen that the Plan and Budget Commission and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can't have any amendment proposals. The ministers have been appointed as high bureaucrats by the President. This limitation of budget rights undermines the public's confidence in governance. In this case, of course, the political institution sees the greatest harm. Turkey's legislature's legislature is now under guardianship with a system change, and the expression "management of one man" corresponds with the party's presidential system. Dear lawmakers, after this entry, I will now talk to the President of the Development and Support Management of Small and Medium Businesses, the Institute of Turkish Standards and the Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation. COSGEB, which will support and guide our small and medium-sized businesses to brand, institutionalization, to adapt to technology, is also an important institution that will enable young entrepreneurs to increase their production capacity and spread high-end technologies to the bottom and to achieve a competitive structure. For such an important organization, 2 billion 324 million euros were earmarked in the budget of 2018, which was reduced to 2 billion 248 million dollars in 2019, and reduced to 1 billion 804 million dollars in 2020. In a time when our country needs institutions like KOSGEB the most, its budget share has been permanently reduced and the government has been taking it as normal, and I want to say that I find it illegal. As for the Institute of Turkish Standards, one of the countries that set the standards of Turkey is expressed, while the institution's budget remains nearly the same as its budget in 2019. In 2019, the amount of $446 million and $944,000 was determined at 2020, at $473 million, $695,000. With this budget, technology standards will be included in the international process? The institutional transformation that will boost the competitiveness of our country's industry can't be done with that understanding. Again, with that understanding, industrial investments can't be made, and production growth can't be increased. Those who boast about elevator testing centers can't grasp industry 4.0 applications and the importance of creating new brands. It highlights the importance of the Turkish Institute of Standards budgeting for the required tasks, and I would like to move to the Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation budget. Looking at this institution, it is easy to see that the government does not understand the importance of this institution. In 2019, this institution, which has a cost of 99 million and 605,000 euros, was estimated to cost 102 million and 165,000 euros in 2020. How is this institution going to achieve its goal of entering the top 10 authorities in the world with this budget -- as stated? Turkey's number of patent applications is growing, as it does not. There is no support for our universities to increase their capacity for intellectual property management. It has to be known that without branding, there is no mention of international existence. Due to the fact that grant supports for RD projects are so small, there is also no improvement on the high value of additives. It is also impossible for Turkey to take part in competitive technology until the problems of our innovation system are resolved. For that, we certainly see the need for structural measures to be taken. Dear lawmakers criticised the budget during budget talks a year ago, expressed that the year 2019 would be difficult and were forced to live in debt. As a result, daily life began to burn families, which became unbearable. Every day we face dozens of cases of insanity. In particular, it has become difficult to maintain family integrity and continuity in major cities. I'm sorry to say that there have been worse and more negative developments than I said. Three-four-man mass suicides have been added to the Ferdi suicides.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0301par0065	Get it together, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0300par0066	I would never say that economics is the sole cause of these developments, but with the economic crisis, the growing unemployment and living difficulties have been a trigger. When the social structure is shaken, society's psychology is broken and it's run out of strength. It must be sought economically, but also by restoring social structure. The government does not provide solutions, but makes a mockery of the nation by drawing pink paintings, breaking society's resistance and endurance even more. It's not a precaution to make it difficult to obtain cyanide. Do they not see that, above all, people need work and food? Urgent measures are essential. We say we're what it takes, but no one hears. As a result, we find this budget very weak, and the ministers are extremely unsuccessful. Here, I want to say that we're going to vote no for him.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0301par0069	Gaziantep MP Imam Huseyin Fliz. Here you go, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0302par0072	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI on the budgets of the regional development heads of the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers strongly condemn the persecution, torture and genocide committed by China's Uygur Turks over the years, and I begin by stressing that for the Uygur Turks, who face inhuman treatment only because they are Muslims and Turks, and who have been abandoned to their fates, there must be a stance as a country before it is too late. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to briefly discuss the budgets of regional development management. The Conium Plain Project (KOP) covers 7 provinces based in Konya-Karaman, and the budget for 2020 is 118,250,000 euros. The East Anatolia Project (DAP) includes 15 provinces, based on Erzurum, and the budget for 2020 is set at $90,920,000. The East Black Sea Project (DOKAP) includes nine provinces, based on Giresun, and the budget for 2020 is 86m,506,000 TL. The Southeast Anatolia Project includes the provinces of Adıyaman, Batman, Diyarbakır, Kilis, Mardin, Siirt, Şanlıurfa and Şırnak, which are earmarked for 2019-2020. Mr. Secretary, regional development projects are vital to the welfare of our people, happiness, a quality of life for our future. For him, grants must be increased and projects must be completed. Dear lawmakers, the GAP project is the largest and oldest of the projects in other development projects. For the first time I don't think about GAP. The 9th President, Süleyman Demirel, who owns the words, comes to me with mercy and gratitude, and his place will be a paradise. The GAP project began in 1976 and was established in 1989 as head of the GAP Regional Development Administration. The project's main goal is to improve the income level and standard of life for the people of the region, to eliminate the difference in development between the region and other regions where the project is implemented, as well as work in sectors such as irrigation, hydroelectricity, energy, agriculture, rural and urban infrastructure, forestry, education and health. As part of the project, the water supply programme aims to water 22 dams, 19 hydropower plants and 1.8 million hectares of land. Although the GAP-based energy projects have improved by 78 per cent, the irrigation is far behind the plan. As of the end of 2018, a total of 558,507 hectares have been watered in the Fırat-Dicle basin. In a different expression, only 31 per cent of the irrigation projects conducted by the DSI have happened. Although the esteemed MPs, former Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu, in his statement during his visit to Gaziantep, in 2016, said that all work related to the GAP will be completed by the end of 2019, many projects are unfortunately incomplete or incomplete. Some of these include constructions of Adıyaman, Cetintepe, Koçali, and Gömuk Dams in Adıyaman. Batman is waiting for projects of Ambar, Bulıkükdere, Cyprus, Karacalar Dams. In Şanlıurfa, the Sivrek- Hilvan pump water is still in the project. Part of the irrigating part of the Rocky Dam in Gaziantep, my constituency, was not completed in the project again. In addition, the Caran Chat Strait Dam, which turns into a snake story in the district of Caran, is expected by your car and local villagers. If this dam is built, 130,000 acres of land will be watered. Dear lawmakers, as you all know, Turkey has become importing agricultural products that we grow on our own land, such as hay, dry beans, chickpeas, lentils, lentils, soy, sunflowers, corn, and small heads and cattle. According to the GAP Master Plan, the area was intended to become an export centre based on agriculture and agriculture, but in 2018 the production industry of $8.7 billion in exports from the GAP region covers only $45m in agricultural and forestry products. This number is really low. You'll have so much land and you'll export so little in agricultural products. If the GAP's goals had been captured, the excitement in the early years could have continued, there would have been no need to rent land from Sudan, nor to import grain products from the Sudan. If we could achieve the targets in the irrigation, we could create a Netherlands in the southeast, export billions of dollars in agricultural products. This project, which is of great importance to our country, unfortunately, has not seen the necessary gratitude from power, and has not been completed for it. Unemployment continues as a problem in the GAP region. When the project was completed, with the potential for high agriculture and industry, the unemployment rate rose to 18.1 per cent in the GAP region, with a total of 3.8 million jobs planned for the region to increase 4.5 times, but according to TEİK's 2019 workforce statistics. The improvement in income distribution seems to be virtually absent. The lowest per cent per cent, given the general population, is in the GAP region with an average. Local cities are unhappy with tradesmen, peasants, farmers and small-income citizens. Fertilizer, fuel prices, the lack of goods, increased inflation, and the cost of life have made people weary. Animalism is almost over. Unplanned agriculture continues. Let me give you an example: In 2018, the garlic manufacturer left it in the hands of the manufacturer, and the sale price was reduced to $1.00, and in this year, the garlic age is sold for 8 euros, and its leftovers are sold for 40 TL, so there is no sustainable plan. Agricultural municipal administrations should be guiding these issues, developing new production models, and most importantly, RD studies. It should be the mission of universities, which the YÖKK has described as regional actors. The universities at the center of the GAP have to do R&D studies that will guide agriculture in the GAP, and help develop agricultural-related industries in the developed countries of the world; there are universities that are trained in pre-license and licensing; they train for agriculture and service; they teach teachers by drawing on their feet; they teach by doing them in person; in short, universities should play an active role in such projects. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to point out again that there is still a problem in Gaziantep as a problem in the watering of agricultural land. The problems of Niziip Tea, Sacir Creek, and the Dam still continue in Gaziantep. I also fear that the problem of the Doğanpınar Dam will be added. Industrial waste, domestic waste, wastewater, soap mills, wool washing facilities, oil production facilities, cardboard-package industry, are given directly to the stream without decontaminating. As a result of Nizip Tea's route and the use of water in the House Dam for watering by local farmers, plants seem to be becoming inefficient, disease, and institutions. At the entrance of Nizip, the village of Akçkent and Kaleköy are flowing in one color between purple and black, and the dam is poured out. I say once again, on behalf of the people of our community, we want to resolve the problems created by Nizip Tea, Haným's Dam and Oğuzeli Sacir Creek, and I hope that these problems will be resolved as soon as possible, and I will have the chance to congratulate those who solve them. Mr. Secretary, I've been closely monitoring the development of the GAP project. There was great excitement: the cracked lands of the southeast would be watered, our crop fan would expand, the amount of crops would increase, progress in social, health and education would be made, unemployment would be reduced. I remember the excitement of Kamran İnan, the minister of state in charge of the GAP of time, when the GAP Regional Development Administration was established; and I remember him with mercy. Now, I'm telling you, one way or the other, it didn't get to the point, but if you support it, the GAP will be finished, and you'll be in the hearts of our people... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0303par0088	Here you go, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0302par0089	...I wish this budget to be a blessing to our nation and to our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0303par0091	Yes, it's Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0304par0093	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to start by condemning the adjectives of the Uygur Turk in East Turkistan. I have made a commitment to talk about TÜBITAK, the Turkish Academy of Sciences and the Turkish Space Agency. Established in 1963, TÜBITAK was later linked to the Ministry of Industry and Technology. You can appreciate that making the right decision in national science, technology and innovation policies, making evaluations, and maintaining continuity in them, is too important to leave in the scope of a single ministry, so it is necessary to raise TBITAK back to its former position. Where does the world go in science and technology? What technologies do you need to care about for sustainable development? What urgent processes must we engage in against climate change and pollution? We don't have the luxury of being behind all this change in the world. We need to find a way to come up with solutions based on social and technology, with our diminishing country resources. The most important task here falls to TUBITAK. TÜBITAK must find ways to find the most efficient solutions with the country's qualified human resources. Mr. Coral Akşener, who is also a scientist, is what Mr. Coral Akşener said yesterday, while there is labour and capital production in the economy, there is an industry 4.0 where science is applied today, the chimneyless factories, the higher technologies. To achieve this goal, the largest part of the TÜBITAK budget must be divided into research development support, minimise personnel costs, develop policies that will most efficiently use production tools. In this context, I congratulate you on the decision that 80m euros we will pay the European Union in 2020 will be used for Turkish research. We've tripled our RD spending over the last 15 years. It's a success, but 2023 is still not enough to achieve its goal. TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK)'s project spending forces researchers to take strict rules such as control in pencils, transfer between pencils, and purchase of proper devices. IF TÜBITAK wants to reduce the risk of cost, it would be better to classify projects as small, medium, large, and give them to teams that have already achieved large projects. Before I present my questions about the TÜBA (Turkey Academy of Sciences), I'd like to share my general opinion on the science and scientific method I obtained inspired by Professor Dr. Aydın Number. Traditions, values, moral criteria, can be a guide for people when human communities merge with geography and interact with other communities. Although these values are not controlled by scientific methods and processes, they can contribute to the development of society. Information obtained by the approach and methods of science is expanding and increasing much faster as a field of coverage and practice. Therefore, examples and lessons from the savings and experiences other than science must also be introduced into a scientific process. One measure of progress in civilization is the ability to adapt to the development of science, to scientific discoveries, and to adapt to the effects and echoes of their community life. Therefore, the word of the great leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, is the most genuine Islamic scholar in life. But the scientific process, in general, does not approve that individuals should be accepted without questioning the values and values that are established in society. In the development of individuals to investigate in the scientific process, critical thinking is endeavored to find the unknown, to look at things from a perspective that has not been looked at before, to teach them to solve problems that others can't. However, one who has the urge to survive doubts all sorts of innovations and resists all kinds of changes. It's possible to find traces of resistance to change, even in the smallest and simplest things. In the history of the Ottomans, the fetal process is also known for setting up new things, and in other countries, there are many such examples. The Gregoryen calendar was created by the pope, who named this calendar after the development of the Julius Caesar calendar in the 16th century. However, this calendar, with its undisputed advantages compared to the previous, has long been denied by Protestant nations, since it is considered a Catholic innovation. Voltaire states that England's mentality in this regard is that the English are willing to disagree even with the sun so that they do not become incompatible with the pope. The opposition of the Catholic Church in the 16th and 17th century of astronomy is also famous for its innovations. Galileo is the most vivid example of this. The sun, which the church accepted at the time, revolves around the world. Unlike its belief, the world revolves around the sun. Galileo, condemned in the Inquisition court for saying, "You send me to prison, but the world still revolves around the Sun. " Scientific discoveries are not born mature and fully developed, but they have a growth and maturity that can be achieved in time and cooperation. Scientists' debate and criticism whip and mature the development of scientific discovery. Whether it's a debate or a struggle, these debates and ideas are an important image of scientific communication. Freedom of speech and freedom of speech must exist in society in order for scientists to have the right to argue and debate. Freedom of speech, by definition, develops when they can express what people think without any fear, intimidation or threat. In societies without freedom of expression and ideas, there is no creative thought, and eventually economic development is blocked. A scientist is timid, he leaves a place where freedom of expression cannot be found, where there is no peace, and sometimes governments punish a scientist for not thinking the same thing as they do. For example, Islamic science historian Fuat Sezgin Hoxha, also named after the TÜBA, is one of the people who was expelled from the university by the May 27 coup. After that, the teacher left Turkey. According to May 27thists, the teacher belonged to a group that intended to bring society back in anarchy and turmoil. Years later, our dear teacher met one of the 27 Mayers who drove him away, Minister of State Mehmet Özgünesh, and said: "Unfortunately, you did everything wrong, but you did one thing right, which is that you got me out of the country. I ask TÜBA: Is there no similar situation happening in Turkey today? HAVE you done any research or at least any concern reports on scientists who have left Turkey as TÜBA? Do you question how much the TUBA has contributed to the development of the free science environment in Turkey? What initiative have you made in this regard? What work have you done on scientific ethics in Turkey, and what kinds of sanctions have you offered? Needless to say, Turkey is, unfortunately, one of the most failed countries in scientific ethics. Have you looked into the reasons why the performance indicators of 2018 were unreachable to the targets? And here's to the Turkish Space Agency. The Turkish Space Agency was founded on December 13, 2018. A year passed, what did he do? The first thing we're going to do is prepare a national space program. You've made a statement. Has this program been broadcast? What does it involve? Or is this agency going to be a friend-to-friend employment agency? What did you target and fail to do in the 2019 budget? What goals do you want the budget for next year? How's our space-related human resource? What work do you do to enrich our human resources? Are there attempts to cooperate with Ukraine in what area, as well as with other countries? Maybe it's too new, so it's a lot of questions, but there's a lot of serious preparation for next year. I wish you the best of the 2020 budget, and my regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0305par0102	On behalf of the individuals, the first word is "Amasian MP Mustafa Levent Karahocagil" (Amasian MP). Here you go, Mr. Karahocagil.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0306par0105	Mr. President, I'm going to speak in favor of today's budget talks. I pray that our 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks will be a blessing and a blessing. Dear Ministers, I'm afraid that the internal forces of foreign forces, evil forces within this country have called you the failed ministers of our government. You're obviously on the right track, obviously you're successful. These MPs, this Parliament is behind you, with you, my Ministers. May God give you strength and strength.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0307par0108	Way to go!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0306par0109	I hope you'll come up with something bigger for this country. My fellow lawmakers, our Ministry of Industry and Technology operates in all areas of industry and technology and does important work. In particular, investment incentives for the creation of organised industrial areas, support and development in the field of research and development, drafting and drafting industrial products technical legislation, market surveillance and control activities for industrial products, support for the COBI products, credit mechanisms and project support for investments and development of production, investment incentives for investments, attracting foreign capital and companies to our country, standardisation assessment, experiment and calibration activities, and development of development levels between regions and provinces. First of all, I'm going to talk about the technology ecosystem. We provide considerable support and exemptions to our research and development companies. Some are tax cuts, insurance premiums, income tax cuts, basic science employment, minimum wage support. We give these supports and incentives to our firms, who have at least 15 researchers doing research and development in a separate unit as a physical location. In recent years, our firms with the RD Central Document have increased rapidly, and the number of researchers in these centers has now exceeded 1,200, and the number of researchers in the area is close to 50,000. Again, the number of projects that have been completed or continued across the country with 4,500 companies and 46,000 researchers in our 85 Technology Development Area has exceeded 45,000. Our ministry aims to develop the technology ecosystem by both providing infrastructure support to its establishment and by offering exceptions to various tax reductions to companies here. In addition to these supports made with 2020, I would like to point out that we will take important steps in the technology ecosystem and implement innovative regulations. With the support of KOSGEB, our ministry provides many support programmes for SMEs and entrepreneurs. With these benefits, the production of products that have not been produced in the country, increasing the capacity of our SMEs and the ability to compete in foreign markets, promoting projects and investments in the production of technological products and boosting inter-incorporated business units is one of our main goals. The Ministry of Industry and Technology has grown stronger with its new structure and has become a holistic support for all sectors. In particular, the Investment Incentivisation System has been one of our most important goals to direct investments to high and middle high sectors, reduce regional development differences, and provide new employment opportunities for our citizens.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0308par0115	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0306par0116	Investors and investors are supported, depending on the properties of investment, including tax reduction insurance premiums, VAT exceptions, customs exceptions, interest support, investment space allocation. In the first ten months of 2019, 4,300 new investments of 101 billion euros are expected to provide 166,275 jobs. In the new year, I have complete faith that these incentives will bring more investment into our country. Another important issue is the mechanisms and support for the deployment of investments into planned areas and for the establishment of planned industrial areas. These areas are supported by our Ministry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0309par0120	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0306par0121	Our ministry provides available funds for investment through banks with very low interest and long-term loans at the establishment of OSB and industrial sites. Today, the number of OSBs has reached 315. Two million of our citizens are employed in the region. Industrial and technology strategy and steps in the technological-oriented industry move have been determined over the years. I'd like to say that in industry and technology, we're going to reach more advanced points than today. With all these thoughts, I wish again the 2020 budget to be good for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0310par0125	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0311par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. In my speech earlier, I told you that the number of MPs in Tripoli dropped from 8 to 6, and that the reason for that was reduced. In fact, the number of MPs in Tripoli has dropped from 8 to 6. Is that true? Right. I did an evaluation on a fact. Of course, Mr. Adnan Günnar, MP of AKP Tripoli, responded to my assessment. Mr. Günnar said, "We no longer vote for the dead, we don't count the dead." He said, "So our number of trustees has fallen." I'd like to ask Mr. Günnar now: "We don't vote for the dead, we don't count the dead." But now, in the AKP administration, the dead were voted for, the voters were registered in empty land, the plots, the districts were changed, so the nearest example of this is Yenimahalle, Çankaya, and we've lived there. Also, in my speech, I said that the Pottery Urban Transformation Project was incomplete. I ask Adnan Günnar, "Does this image of the potter fit into Adnan Günnar?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0312par0131	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0313par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Varank is: They laid the foundation of the world's first licensed dry apricot warehouse in Malatya, 10 November, a month ago, but I thank them as a Malatian. We have a project in the Organised Industrial Zone that deals with decontamination, about the up to 40,000 cubic metres of a project. With that project finished, I'd appreciate it if our Minister made a promise that Shahnahan Tea and the area around him would have a better quality of life and that the farmland would be better. Thank you. Mr. Concubine...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0314par0138	Mr. President, thank you. I think you're all aware that the TEMSA Factory is an important factory that's been operating in Adana for 50 years, but in recent days, there have been serious problems in TEMSA. And we don't know what kind of payability this new hand-changing factory has fallen into. So, is the government following that an important organization for Turkey, not only for Adana, which is exporting electric buses to 70 countries, producing electric buses and mass production, is it being followed by our government, and what is our Industrial Minister's pursuit, will it give the Adanans and Turkey any good news about that? Thank you. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0315par0191	Now, I'm going to promise to run it because he's making demands. Mr. Rusar Pekcan, Minister of Commerce.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0316par0194	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers salute the General Assembly, wishing that our 2020 Year Budget Law Proposal would be a blessing on behalf of our country and nation. As the Ministry of Trade, we conduct foreign trade, customs and domestic trade activities under one roof. Our ministry integrates the approaches, improvements and technologies in line with the needs of the age in a proactive way, providing satisfaction-oriented service to the trade expert and citizens. Our Ministry of Commerce has a large foreign organization that serves in 110 different countries with a total of 284 personnel. In our central agency, 4,111 is carefully serviced by our country-wide and country-wide customs agency, 16,102 staff, 20,497 personnel, abroad, abroad, across our borders. We can summarize our ministry's main goals, our foreign trade, to contribute to our country's sustainable growth, to strengthen our export capacity based on technology and added value, to develop the business environment in our country to modern, efficient and reliable our customs and administrations, to strengthen the possibilities of small businesses, trade, to ensure consumer rights and product security at the highest level, to ensure that trade is the fastest, the easiest, the easiest, the easiest, to play a role in transition to digital economies. Dear lawmakers, as you know, protection measures have been raised in international trade recently. In this conjunctural conjunctive described as trade wars, the country's commercial prevention and conservation policies have increased, slowing global growth and trade momentum in 2019. In this process, as Turkey, we have been careful to preserve and improve our exports. Despite the slowdown in global economic and trade, in 2019, we demonstrated a strong performance in foreign trade. According to the January-age World Trade Organization data, most of the countries' exports have dropped. When export change averages in the first 50 countries have been released, exports see a decrease in negative 2.6. Turkey has increased exports by 2.56 per cent during this period, entering a limited number of countries registering export increases. Turkey is the 7th place in the world as an increase in exports during this period, and the value is the 5th place in the world as of the end of September. In 2019, our 11-month export was $165 billion, 67 million, while our import was $190 billion $229 million. In the first 11 months of last year, our foreign trade deficit -- 52 billion, 247 million dollars -- occurred at $25 billion, 162 million, with a significant decline of 51.8%. Our country's foreign financing needs have been contributed to $27 billion and $85 million. The rate of exports has increased from 75.6 per cent to 86.8 per cent. Our net exports contributed to growth by 4.7 points in the first three quarters of the year 2019. In the first ten months of 2019, our service exports increased by 10.3 per cent from the same period of the previous year, 46.6 billion dollars, and our service imports were $18.4 billion by 4.4 per cent. The importance of trade diplomacy and bilateral trade agreements is becoming increasingly critical because of developments in global trade. We are actively conducting business diplomacy at both a political and technical level. In 2019, under our mechanisms of political-level bilateral economic commission, economic trade partnership committee, we had 54 talks with 22 countries and at the bilateral level, and we already have a free trade agreement with 20 countries, and four of them actively continue our Sta talks. Updating our customs union with the European Union and thus providing reciprocal market openings in new areas, such as services, e-commerce, public purchases and agricultural activities, are another important topic on our agenda. The European Union's report, published on 14 October 2019, highlighted by the European Union, which continues to be a key priority for the EU trade agenda of updating its customs union with Turkey. On the other hand, as part of the process of leaving the European Union of the United Kingdom, we continue our efforts to ensure the continuation of the preferential trade regime between Turkey and England. Dear lawmakers, I would like to quantify the impact of international protection measures on exports. In 2017, 893 million dollars of our exports were subject to trade policy measures, and in 2018 it was $7.2 billion, and in 2019, 11 billion of our exports were subject to trade policy measures. We, of course, as Turkey, continue our talks in a way that trade diplomacy requires to protect the rights of our manufacturer and exporter, while also using international law, including our rights to retaliate, we bring trade policy measures and tools into action as necessary. Our country is ranked third in terms of the number of measures in force among the members of the DTO. As a country, we are implementing import policy measures within the rules of the DTÖ, which amount to 41.6 billion dollars of our imports. In our export master plan, which is our map of 2023 roads in foreign trade, we have selected 17 target countries and five target sectors. The countries we've identified are countries with 60 per cent of the world's GDP, 43.7 per cent of the world's imports, 8.6 trillion imports from the world, and 4.2 billion in populations. Our goal is to increase our share of the imports of target countries to one percent per thousand. Likewise, to increase our export share of exports, which are 7.6 per thousand in exports of the target sectors, to one percent. We're implementing various types of support programs for our goods and services exporter. As part of our support programme, which makes up the biggest pencil in our budget, we will support our exporters for $3 billion,757 million. Our supports for international competitiveness, international fair participation supports, TURQUEALTY, branding, design supports, our global trade chain programme, and so on. We're with our exporter with all our support to ensure that our exporter stays on the outside market and brands from the first preparation for exports to the last stage, and we're giving them important resources. On the other hand, we're doing an impact analysis of the support we provide, so we're reviewing our supports and improving them. Supports and applications are easy. Gov. We explain it to all our companies in an efficient, easy, simple, understandable way through our address. In addition, we are moving the application and support process through the management system of state support in the export system that we are building, and from January 1, 2020, we will receive all of our exporter's applications digitally through the government's government system. I'd like to point out that our support benefits from our goods exporters as well as our service exporters. Turkey has increased global competition and has become a net exporter in many branches of the services sector, including health, education, tourism, filmmaking, software, logistics, technical counseling. In addition to our trade in goods, we find it extremely important to diversify our trade in service. In order to support the access of our exporters to global markets, we provide them with a special branded passport. With the recent arrangement, we have reduced the export limit on the green passport from $1 million to $500,000. Dear lawmakers, one of the things that we care about as the Ministry is the fact that exports are on the ground. Traders, we have speeded up our artist's efforts to increase awareness of foreign trade. Our tradesman in certain fields of activity has the potential to export, especially by taking advantage of the opportunities of e-trade. That's why we're implementing the Marketing and Branding Project for Traders and Artists. Seven thousand tradesmen have joined our trade in 14 provinces so far. We've also completed the necessary legislation to pave the way for our tradesman to benefit from certain state benefits in exports. On the other hand, we're doing focus work on the role of women and young entrepreneurs in our exports through the head of the Department of Exporting Women and Young Enterprises, which we have established within our General Directorate of Exports. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We have started programmes such as ▪ Turkish Physics and On-Line Women's Enterprise Networks, the Melek Investment Network, and the Export Academy. So far, 800 of our female entrepreneurs have benefited from these trainings. Our goal is to give 5,000 women and young entrepreneurs these trainings in 2020. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, as a major result of our efforts to spread exports across the country, we began to implement our export support offices. These work in parallel with our export headquarters. We've established 67 export support offices in 56 provinces, which we're going to subtract by 81. In 2019, we held 78 foreign trade information seminars in 63 counties. We'll continue this in 2020. We also have a new project, and we're detecting companies that have not yet exported, but have potential, within the scope of our Project for Our State Potential Exporters. We're going to continue to identify our companies that have the potential to export across the country, and we're going to start working with them on a one-on-one firm basis. We're developing vocational training in foreign trade through protocol signed by our Ministry of National Education to strengthen our export capacity fundamentally. We began working in the field of strengthening foreign trade curriculum and educational materials in our upper secondary schools, promoting alternative languages, providing students with internships, scholarship opportunities. As the ministry, we give special attention to digitalization and automation in line with the conditions of our age. In this way, we strive to make our work more efficient, to provide better service to our tradesmen, and as a public institution, to set an example for our business world in digitalization. We also work with Singapore and South Korea in this area. By the end of 2020, we will open the platform, which we call the Easy Export Platform, which is supported by advanced software, to the use of our exporters. Thanks to modules such as the Smart Export Robot based on artificial intelligence, we will provide market and demand conditions in a particular country, taxes and related legal regulations in that country and other critical information in private, in private with our exporting companies. Thanks to the Information System of Foreign Representatives Management, which we established in 2019, our business advisors and attachés have been able to do more effectively sharing information with each other and the central agency, and the institutional memory is being built in a strong way. In part, we will open this platform to our firms at the end of this year, so that our firms can communicate with our foreign advisors and get information. As you know, one of the most important gates to exports in our country is our free zones. In the industrial products group, the export of high-tech products made from Turkey is 3.5 per cent, and that's 9 per cent in our free zones. To strengthen the potential of our free zones, our goal is to achieve 14 percent of the OECD average by implementing the new generation of residency free zones. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for the services of TÜRK EXIMBANK, one of the biggest supporters of our exporter, we have strengthened the support of our ministry to our new financial exporters, to finance our exports, as a result of its joint minds and consultations with the business world. EXIMBANK alone offers 53 per cent of the export loans provided by the banking sector; in 11 months it offers $40 billion in support. In total, the SME rate has increased to 73 per cent. And within the scope of our potential to be closer to our exporter, we've moved the EXIMBANK branches to 20, this year. In 2020, we will further diversify credit and insurance products, becoming one of the biggest supporters of our exporters. It is important for the security of our country and our people, as well as for the rapid and smooth flow of trade, to demonstrate the understanding of a modern and efficient customs administration. We're doing a lot of innovations, technological investments, in our customs across the country. In 2019, we took up the new facilities of Cobanbey, Kapaköy, and Sarp Customs Gates. We have activated the Olive Dal Customs Gate, which was opened in Afrin. We will complete our work in 2020, which is the pioneer, and in Kapakule, and in Isala, and in Hamzabeyite. We started construction at Habur Customs Gate. Gurbulak, Pazarkule, we've started our preliminary work on rebuilding Turkish Eye Customs Gates. We have raised the number of customs managers across Turkey to 164. Now you all know that we've activated the Export Digital Customs Application in the export area, which allows us to monitor all processes related to exports electronically within the framework of our paper-free customs vision. In import, we, the Ministry, have completed our preparations for the transition to a paperless environment. The Single Window System, where all information and documents for foreign trade are presented from a single reference point, already has 144 documents, and with the completion of the documents we expect from our different institutions, we aim to increase that number to 196. We've implemented the Port Single Window System, which facilitates seaway operations. Our container and Harbor Tracking System is already used in 23 ports, which carry out 92 per cent of container transactions, and we've completed our work on the electronics and recording of customs transactions as part of what we call the private invoice. On the other hand, the customs process and its operations are easily and clearly described, with a very broad content. Gov. By completing our tr web portal, we've opened the use of individual users and traders, and they can access this website from anywhere on all our doors. We have a 477 company now expanding its authorized position of responsibility, which is an important convenience for our trade acquaintance. They carry out 33 per cent of Turkish exports; 42 per cent of their imports. We're predicting to increase our authorized number of responsibilities to 500 next year. We will perform the Customs Practice at the Importation Place in 2020. We will also activate the Appointed Virtual Order System in 2020 regarding the management and organisation of vehicle traffic at border crossings. We launched the Pre-Existing Customs Project in April 2019. With this project, the raw materials and intermediaries from the sea are being delivered directly to production facilities for our producers, exporters, and without waiting at the port. We'll continue to practice for the project's airway transport, and we'll activate it in 2020. With our online Customs Purchase and Analytic Performance Programme, you can track your property and operations from the beginning to the end of our foreign trade. In our Time Calculation and Observation Programme, we use advanced analysis and modeling techniques to measure the amount of time in the country's customs administration, and the estimated completion of operations is being done. This also provides performance measurements for our own customs. We're trying to demonstrate an active and modern sense of risk management in customs operations. We're in the process of completing our Integrated Data Analysis Project, which contains techniques such as data mining. We'll be able to make risk assessments more effective by exploiting today's scientific methods and models. Our basic motto is to set up illegal trade as we speed up legal trade. In our ministry, we also began to work to bring our Centre for Perfection in data analysis, job analysis, artificial intelligence to life, based on the use of artificial intelligence to support them. Our ministry is the Command Control Centre in the central building, and we can monitor 28 of our administrations simultaneously 24/7, and we can track ships and commercial planes in all of our landwaters, and planes in our airspace. We've already started working with our Defense Industry President to produce the scanning systems from abroad in Turkey. We've completed the feasibility studies of the TUBITAK (TÜBITAK) and the Scan Network Project. We've provided both training and equipment for our staff at the Project for Development of Customs Protection, which we run with the United Nations International Migration Organization. Last year, we also activated our 21-door plate recognition systems at our 10 Ro-Ro port. WITH TUBITAK, the passenger imaging system is able to detect hidden illegal objects without physical interference. We're using drones that we've started using in customs for the first time to integrate into the work of ship searching, sea patrol, container control teams. We're still fighting against illegal trafficking of all kinds of goods. As of November 30th, we conducted 6.7 tonnes of drugs, 12.9 million packs of cigarettes, 125 thousand electronic cigarettes and additions, 16,724 tonnes of illegal fuel; 2 billion 340 million dollars worth of contraband in total 4.792 cases. We've developed a lot of infrastructure to assess what's left in customs. Gov. We renovated our sales channel, our sales process. There are 740,000 members of the system, and we have auctioned off all our citizens. Our activities towards the development of our infrastructure in internal trade, the backbone of our economy and social life, our business, our artist, our work on cooperatives: we're looking at a lot of innovations in the context of facilitating our country's trade. We're over 115 million in a karepod check, and we're going to bring in the square-coded bonds and electronic checks and bonds in 2020. We continue to develop trade records electronically through the Central Record Recording System, and it is used as a source of MERSIS confirmation in the 34 e-government service, which the business community benefits from. As a new means of financing for our COBI, we have completed the Moving Hostage Records System. So far, we've provided $674 billion, $55 billion and 35 billion in financing. We continue our work on the electronic era of commercial buyers. The development of our electronic trade infrastructure in both foreign and domestic trade is important, and we will increase electronic trade's total retail share of 5.3 per cent. We have implemented the Electronic Trade Information System to register the E-trade, to obtain data in good health, to create policy. In the first quarter of 2020, we will be able to explain our country's official e-commerce data. We also set up the electronic trade information platform and continue to develop this platform. We have activated the Trust Mark System in order to address security concerns and improve the quality of service in the E-cartere. We've implemented a lot of secondary regulations in different areas of our retail trade sector. We plan to implement the Retail Information System, which aims to provide services for retail businesses electronically from one location in 2020. We've increased the efficiency of the Hal Recording System in order to deal with non-regulation in the vegetable fruit trade, the number of notifications has reached 150 million, and we're doing inspections at 160 points. With the completion of E-fatura, e-love, e-monstahsil receipt systems -- as of January 1, 2020 -- and Hal's Recording System integration, we'll be in the way of non-regulation and tax loss. With the CDS mobile app, our consumers can mobilely learn how many times and at what price the product changes hands, the producer of the vegetable fruit, the production place, the product. We are continuing to establish modern wholesalers, plant vegetable fruit, as well as other food and agricultural product trades from around here, establish a collection center for conditions in production areas, and especially to ensure structural transformation of producer organisations and make them more active in the sector. The number of businesses in the Licensed Storage System has reached 90. The capacity has reached 4.6 million tonnes. On July 26th, we activated the Turkish Stock Exchange of Products, providing a single platform for the trade of agricultural products stored in licensed warehouses. As the ministry, we serve 1,800,000 tradesmen and artists, tradesmen's art rooms, occupational federation, the Chamber of Traders and Artists Association and the Turkish Traders and Artists Confederacy and co-workers. We aim for the development of the vocational education system, the export potential and the competitiveness of our business, especially within the framework of the Business and Artists Strategy and Action Plan 2020-2024. We've trained our 7,000 tradesmen in e-commerce. We upgraded our information system to the Traders and Artists. A infrastructure that can be analyzed using geographical information systems for trade data. Hopefully, at the beginning of next year, we'll activate a mobile app that will be easier for our citizens to access to our tradesmen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We serve 12,000 co-ops and 1.6 million cooperative partners. We provide low interest financing through the Business and Artists Loan and Bail Cooperate. This year we used 23 billion interest-cutting loans, total loans reached 40 billion. In order to use the scale economy of business and artistry businesses to reduce the cost of supply against chain stores and contribute to price competition, we began to create the model of the Federal and Distributive Cooperative, and we will activate it as soon as possible. Again, as part of co-operative activities, we have trained 1,600 entrepreneurs in 14 counties in women's cooperatives. We also held our Cooperatives Fair on December 5th and 8th. In 11 months, we inspected the supply of product security directly to affect 2 billion imports, not allowing 8.8 million products to enter. We've identified 54 party products from 2,600 parties in 11 months as insecure products, due to zero tolerance for insecure products within our ministry. We have activated the Unsecured Product Information System (GUBIS), and over 750 thousand citizens have seen our website. In the first 11 months, 495000 applications were agreed for consumer rights, 62% in favour of consumer rights. We've been able to apply for consumer arbitration committees through e-government. We have completed the integration of TÜBIS and the National Judicial Network (UYAP). As a result of these studies, the average decision-making process of the 2019 consumer referee delegations has been reduced to less than three months. In the first 11 months of 2019, Alo 175 calls came to the consumer advice line 321,000 calls, and we responded to them. We also started a mobile app on consumer applications. Finally, the Hellal Accreditation Foundation, our ministry's concerned institution, is not an institution that does legal documentation, but is an institution that aims to promote institutions that are moving around the world to make legal documentation, and there is a mission to export services for our country. Seven of them have had 14 applications from abroad and the Turkish Institute of Standards is now completed as of yesterday. As the Ministry of Trade, we work in strong communication and consultation with all the sector associations, including all the institutions representing our private sectors and the TOBB, TİM, DEAK, TESK, and we listen to their demands by landing on the field. We've responded in writing to all the demands, 3,500 requests, and we'll continue to give them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2020, despite global trade wars, we will work with our private sector to further our foreign trade. We're going to focus on our work on the target country, the target sector and other priorities in our export master plan. In our bilateral trade agreement talks and in the customs union upgrade process, we will have an effective, result-oriented approach to the interests of our private sector and our country. We will implement programs and projects in the field of women and young entrepreneuries to expand our exports, continue our local educational activities, and raise awareness of our trade in foreign trade. We will strengthen his role in the financing of the trade by allowing Turkish EXIMBANK to reach more companies and SME. We will improve our quality of service by improving our digitalisation and automation projects in foreign trade, customs and domestic trade, and continue to facilitate the businesses of the merchant. We will continue our physical investment, construction and equipment supply processes in our customs, and we will continue our efforts to strengthen technological infrastructure and modernise modernisation. We will continue our work in the field of fighting trafficking, product safety and the protection of manufacturer's rights without compromise. We're going to continue our work in collusion with our private sector, our business, our producer, our consumer, to improve legal and technical infrastructure in internal trade, and we're going to effectively contribute to the Coordination Board's work. We will continue to work hand-in-hand with our tradesmen to protect our tradesman from destructive competition, to ensure his economic well-being, to help them benefit from their financing. In order to strengthen the production and export capacity of our co-operatives, we're going to do awareness studies and develop focus projects. Mr. President, members of the Plan and Budget Commission, our Trade Ministry budget for 2020 is $5,752 million, 364,000, to be used for the purpose and activities presented to you. Three billion and 757 million liras of this amount are reserved for the support of our exporter and our trader, 65 per cent of our total budget. I wish our ministry's budget to be good for our country, for our nation, and for all of you. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Thank you, I'm waiting for further support. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] But I'd also like to report to Garo Paylan from here, not just on my behalf, but on behalf of all the staff who work at my Ministry. A man's ritual is a man's work. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0317par0274	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0318par0275	Fatma, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0317par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. We'd like to applaud as a woman, but in general, Turkey is considered the most unsuccessful minister in public, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0319par0280	On what?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0320par0281	According to what, according to who?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0317par0282	I'll tell you what it was his statement, how he became Minister, when I landed at the airport, he said. So, he comes to the airport, and before he gets on the plane, a businesswoman, a merchant, is a minister in the air, and when he lands, he finds out.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0321par0283	Does he need to learn from Kandil?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0317par0284	So it's inevitable that he's going to be a failed Minister, friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0322par0286	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0323par0287	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0322par0289	Mr. President, dear friends, now our Minister has summing up his predictions of where the Ministry came from and the budget of 2020 and what he's been doing in the Ministry. However, HDP Deputy Group Chairman Fatma Surakan Hanım unfortunately went into polymia unnecessarily because it's something to be proud of when a person is appreciated without the Ministry's expectations. So, yes, he made it very clear to all the public how he learned from his sincerity. A bargain has not resulted in the Minister.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0324par0290	Was the others a negotiation, Mr. Akbasoglu?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0325par0291	What was the deal?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0322par0292	As a result, by our President, Turkey is in the Chambers and Stock Exchange Union and...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0326par0294	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0322par0295	...is especially appreciated by the Ministry of Commerce as a successful person in the business world by considering his performances as a career winner. I just want to say that I don't think it's right to bring this up. And I want to thank both our Minister of Commerce and our Minister of Industry, our entire Cabinet for their service so far. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0327par0298	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0328par0299	Fatma, you said what you said. What are you going to say now?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0322par0300	I didn't say anything. Fatma, I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0327par0301	You didn't say anything, you considered it an unnecessary remark, so that's enough to say anything. We don't have to judge everything by what you want, by what you want, friends.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0328par0302	Fatma, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0327par0304	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd also like to say that I don't think it's right for the AKP Group Deputy to consider what we're saying as unnecessary rhetoric. We see him as a failed Minister. We'll also have questions about the Ministry, so after our evaluations -- after the other Minister's speeches -- we'd like to ask a little bit about the answers that our members of the Plan and Budget Commission can't answer. So he brought us here as he took his speech from the Plan and Budget Commission, and even in his speech, he calls us members of the Commission. So, we, our group, actually think of it as a divisional failure, we say that, too, my friends. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0329par0356	Yes, Minister of Industry and Technology Mustafa Varank. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0359	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a commitment with our Ministry to discuss budgets for 2020 of our relevant institutions. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and all the citizens who follow us, and wish the negotiations to be a blessing. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, we are at a time in the global economy when risks and opportunities are intertwined. The increase in customs tariffs and uncertainty in trade policies have caused a worldwide recession. Global growth forecast for 2019 is 3%. That's the lowest level in the last decade. You know, in August 2018, we faced a serious shock, independent of our economic foundations. While fighting security threats in our region, we faced attacks on our economy. Under the leadership of our President, we have eliminated the shock from our government's conclusion-oriented policies. At the point where we're here today, industrial production is increasing, orders and capacity use rates in the manufacturing industry are increasing, confidence in the economy is getting stronger. The growth rate in the third quarter of the year confirms the resurgence of the domestic demand. Of course, we don't think that's enough. We've been a government that's been serving all over our country for 17 years, east, west, north, south. We've made the biggest breakthroughs in the history of the Republic in all areas, without getting industrial to technology, without getting it to health. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, on the way to the 100th year of our republic, we will, together with our nation, write the new success story of Turkey, led by high-profile production. We know very well that Turkey is capable of guiding the trends of the age. We have a young and dynamic population, risk-taking entrepreneurs, workers who sweat day and night. In a conjunctural conjunctive where the center of gravity moves from West to East in the global economy, we will turn our advantages into opportunities. We're going to make our country a center of attraction for critical technologies and qualified human capital. Every step we take, we consider both national and global priorities. On this road, our basic reference will be our 2023 Industrial and Technology Strategy under the 11th Development Plan. Our vision is very clear in the coming period. We have designed policies that will build our economic and technological independence, to bring us to the top in the global race, with the understanding of the National Technology Movement. We have ambitious, but also realistic goals. We're going to increase the export of the manufacturing industry and its share of the national income. In our exports, we will increase the share of medium-high and high-tech products to 50 percent. 2023 We've identified our road maps in the areas of high-tech and innovation, digital transformation, entrepreneurship, human capital and infrastructure that make up the basic components of our strategy. In the last year, we've taken very important steps to support this general framework. We've started the Technology Focused Industrial Movement Programme to domesticize high-cost products. Cari, we've identified the sectors we've been opening up and the primary product groups with our shareholders. In a way that would encourage the manufacturer and the buyer at the same time, we set up all our support from idea to product with a complete understanding. We started the program with the machine industry. In preliminary applications, which ended on December 6th, we accepted 200 applications, which amounted to about $5 billion. We will call for further calls in the first quarter of 2020, which will immediately cover other sectors. This visionary program, which was first implemented in our country, will be the cornerstone of the structural transformation we target in production. In the first ten months of 2019, we provided 4,302 incentives for a steady investment of 101 billion liras. The sectoral diversity of incentives has been fulfilled exactly the way we wanted it to be. The lion's share belongs to the manufacturing industry. This is very important data in terms of employment increases in the coming period. With investment incentives, we expect over 166,000 additional jobs. These investments will create a demand for suppliers, as well as the ability to produce the drop capacity. In this way, qualified growth will gain momentum under the leadership of production. Here all the incentives went to the defense, to the gun. Some false claims were made. I've already mentioned the first ten months of 2019. So what do we see when we look at the incentives in the last seven years? The production industry has 37 percent. There was intense support in the lower sectors, such as chemistry, machinery, textiles, vehicles, paper. The service sector's share of incentives is 31 per cent and the energy sector's share is 26 per cent. We're talking to the data, we're not reciting anything. And our deputies here can get these numbers very easily. Again, we issued a support decision for 25 of the project-based incentives, which cost $55 billion. We expect him to provide 24,000 additional jobs and make significant contributions to reducing the current deficit. Speaking of which, I'd like to make a specific point about something from this platform. All our incentives are transparent and predictable. We support all projects that carry the conditions specified in the matter without exception. We publish all our decisions in the Official Gazette. Everything we have is transparent, and we give no exception to anyone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, we continue to invest in industrial areas to strengthen production infrastructure. Today, our representatives speaking on behalf of the opposition at the General Assembly have stopped production in Turkey and are not making new investments. Look, this year's employment in organized industrial areas has increased by 90 thousand people. Currently, only 2 million workers in organised industrial areas work day and night to expand Turkey's economy.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0331par0378	In Adana, 55 factories have been closed in the last ten years, 55 factories.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0379	At the end of this year, we're completing seven organised industrial sites and four industrial sites that will provide another 15,000 jobs. Next year, we'll be able to put down seven new organised industrial sites and five more industrial sites and create 25,000 jobs. Again, there was an agenda for the access of OSBs to natural gas. Sixty-five percent of OSBs that have been produced across the country have natural gas, and half of them run their own network. Next to our OSBs, we're setting up industrial areas for high and large-scale projects. 12 industrial areas were declared this year. The firms have $9 billion in investments and 68,000 new employment commitments here.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0332par0381	Don't call it, do it. It's been five years since Niğde promised.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0382	Mr. President, if I may.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0333par0383	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0332par0384	We've given you a lot of time, Mr. Secretary. We've spoken to someone else a hundred times.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0385	We will also complete the evaluation process of 20 new industrial areas applied for next year. We continue our efforts to speed up our industry's digital transformation, increase its efficiency. To this end, we build model factories to teach simple production and digital transformation in practice. Our model factories have been opened in Ankara and Bursa, and next year we will open our new headquarters in Izmir, Gaziantep, Mersin, Konya and Kayseri. Of course, we don't just care about digitalization of our industry, we care about environmental transformation. With the vision of the green OSB, we support the environmental transformation of our industry. We're going to convert OSBs into eco-industrial parks, where outputs are converted into inputs and energy is self-responsive and more environmentally sensitive. Due to the neglect of local governments, we continue our country's largest environmental project against the pollution of the Ergene basin since the 1970s. We've spent $900 million on the Youth Protection Action Plan so far. We've completed three percent of the joint waste-water treatment facilities, and we'll finish the remaining two chapters in 2020. In order to avoid pollution, we've assembled industrial facilities in the basin under the OSB of 12 reforms. With these enormous investments, we will significantly improve the water quality of the river. I was in Tekirdağ two weeks ago. I visited my working brothers and sisters who worked in tunnels to drain the deep discharges of refined wastewaters. Look, the machine that opened these massive tunnels was developed domestically and nationally with TBITAK support, and it came to life with our strategic investment. Turkey is very pleased to see the positive effects of our support for a sector from one of the eight countries around the world that can produce this machine. So, as in examples like this, we want the production to be dominated by RD and innovative ideas. In this sense, we continue to develop our RD incentives in terms of quality and quantity.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0334par0390	Minister, the universities don't have RD studies.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0391	Through TÜBITAK this year, we've given $511m to more than 3,000 of the private sector's RD projects, we've given 24 million to our young entrepreneurs, we've given $633m to 1.110 academic projects, we've contributed $192 million to our 5,180 scientists. Dear lawmakers, we have implemented Perfection Centres and Industrial Innovation Network Mechanism Programs to develop high-tech products in private sectors and university cooperation. This year, we've established 244 RD and design centers and four new techno parks. As of today, we have 1,572 AR-Ge and 85 techno parks in our country. The export revenue of 5,500 companies operating in techno parks reached $4.5 billion, and sales revenues reached 84 billion. The 1,020 projects that have been developed in our techno parks so far have also been provided with an external source of $278m. In 16 years, the number of domestic patent applications has increased by 18 times, and the number of local patent registrations has increased 38 times. We have been number 1 in Europe every year since 2011. In total domestic testing property data, we are the 11th in the world. For the first time, our country's share of total RD spending has exceeded 1%. Our private sector owns the biggest share of RD spending. This shows that our support for the development of the ecosystem has been rewarded. Almost all critical RD projects are signed by the Ministry of Industry and Technology. Precious lawmakers are proportional to overall development, regional prosperity increases. So we've put our hands under the table in areas where our region needs improvement, in spite of those who make the difference in development between the regions, in spite of those who make the product of abuse politics. Through agencies and development administrations, we've transferred $983m to hundreds of projects to support regional development in one year. Thanks to these projects, we introduced the mountains of Hakkari, tourism, and the plains of Harran, to modern agriculture.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0335par0397	Also come to Niğde, to Niğde.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0398	Our cities no longer talk of terrorism, jobs, closing doors, production. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We allow the west to approach east, north to south, and each region to reveal its own potential for development. One of our deputies here talked about the poverty index. Look, this index is made by a private company, not an index of data collected by international organizations, but no international response. But since we're talking about indexes, I want to talk about an index that was announced five days ago, and the United Nations explained it. For the first time in the Human Development Index, our country has reached the category of Very High Human Development. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] This index calculates average life expectancy, education, and per capita income, so it has both economic and social dimensions, economic and social development. Our development agencies have focused on increasing local awareness in vocational and technical education this year. We've transferred $90 million to improve the infrastructure of vocational schools. Our Support of Attraction Centres programme continues, too. So far, we've supported 71 projects in 11 cities for $533 million. This year, we also launched the Social Development Support Program. We're going to develop the skills of disadvantaged groups with a program that we've earmarked for 166 million euros. In the coming days, we will announce the results of our programme in collaboration with the local shareholders. Our regional development administrations, which are tasked with monitoring investment projects, also support projects in various areas, including agriculture, rural development, industry and tourism, with their own budgets. In this minival, we've transferred $3.308 dollars to the project in the last three years. The administration has begun to prepare a new generation of action plans for our Ministry's co-ordination. In this context, we're going to further strengthen the co-operation between our administrations and our development agencies. We continue to prepare our human capital for the future in the best possible way. With the first industrial PhD programme we apply, we encourage PhD students to grow up and work in industry. This year we started raising 517 Ph.D. students with the cooperation of 33 universities and 82 companies. A lot of our deputies here talked about brain drains. This is the first time we've started the International Leader Research Program this year, and we're going to make our country the center of attraction for high-level researchers from all over the world. When we explained the program, there were those who didn't believe us, even those who made fun of us. There were those who came to Turkey and said, "Come and give up." We received important applications from the world's leading universities, research centers and pioneer companies. 127 top researchers, 98 of whom are Turkish and 29 of whom are foreigners, will benefit from this program. Here's a brain drain, unlike you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0336par0408	Justice, justice. Justice first.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0409	You've been on the news for two days. A dear teacher who left Turkey in 1976 returned from France to our country. Moreover, he did not return alone, with one Indian and one Italian researcher, and returned with two students, and will continue his research in Turkey. With this programme, Turkey's RD infrastructure will have significant success.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0336par0410	Should we count the ones that are gone?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0337par0411	Tell me about those who left, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0412	This year, we also launched the Pioneer Research Support Programme for high-level researchers in our country. We're increasing the number of science centers to promote science culture. We've built six science centers so far. We also started trying to build a science center in Gaziantep and Şanlıurfa. We're designing new programs for our children and young people to invent and pursue their dreams. This year, 400,000 of our students have been able to prepare and present scientific projects through the TUBITAK Science Fairs. The second was the largest aviation and space festival in the world with 1,720,000 visitors. In 19 different tech competitions, TEKNOFEST experienced the excitement of 17373 domestic and foreign teams and 50,000 competitors. In its third year, Gaziantep will host the festival, where its feet are not on the ground. Hopefully, we'll spread the technology and innovation spirit from Southeast Anatolia to all Turkey this time. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've started the Future Stars of Technology Program for our special talented children. With this program, we offer three years of robotics, artificial intelligence, comprehensive and completely free technology education from cybersecurity to nanotechnology to secondary school and high school-level students. We've started training in 12 counties. In 2020, we will start these trainings in 18 of our provinces. There were applications today, we shared them with the public. Hopefully -- we don't have time to count these 18 provinces here, maybe I'll count them in five minutes -- we'll start a 100 EEYAP technology workshop in 81 districts over the next two years. About 50,000 students will benefit from these trainings in five years. Respected lawmakers, we paid $2.3 billion for 64 thousand businesses this year through KOSGEB. In these payments, the share of the manufacturing industry has been 62 percent, and we will increase it to 75 percent by 2023. I gave examples from this bench last year of success stories, which our great House has afforded by approving our budget. And this year, I'd like to share with you a very remarkable example, a success story written with KOSGEB and investment incentives. Our story begins with a female entrepreneur watching the show about scorpion venom. This entrepreneur, affected by the dreams of the two young people from Urfa, is turning this into an imaginary project. The angel convinces 40 investors to support it through investment networks. Eskişehir Osmangazi University is starting work with co-operation. At this point, we come in as Ministry, we give the company RD and strategic product support from KOSGEB, so the company achieves its goals. So, what's the outcome of this story? Right now, the company has two registered scorpion antiserums. The export value of this product you see in my hand is exactly $25,000 per kilogram. (AK PARTY) All of our deputies who have come up here are very fond of the iPhone, and they talk about the iPhone, and its export value is 6,000 dollars per kilogram, $25,000 on this one. Here's technology, here's Turkey, which produces high-velocity value.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0338par0420	How many do we sell in total?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0421	Look, we're just one of four countries that can produce this product in global quality standards. Our firm also sent first samples of exports to Africa. Now, all of them have completed the RD of rabies antiserum imported abroad, which will soon begin their application for registration. Honourable lawmakers, for the first time this year, we have also given support to encourage the digitalization of SMEs. So we took in the SMEs who developed local technology and wanted to digitize its production. We encourage SMEs who want to export abroad with the Market Support Programme, and we develop the capacity of already exporters. With the COBI Finance Support Programme, which we've just started, we're facilitating access to financing in business and machine/supply loans. We cut interest last month in this programme, and we withdrew 1.5 per cent of the guarantees imposed by the Credit Guarantee Fund to 1 1%.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0339par0424	The COBIs don't know about it. The COBIs don't know about it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0340par0425	Don't shout!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0426	Düzce, Iğdır, Beşikdüzı, Foundationkebi and İstanbul Eminönü have given an emergency support loan of $35m to 283 businesses affected by floods at the Subgate of Eminönu, while in the church they have been affected by terrorist attacks. And since it's on the agenda here, I'd like to stress this in particular -- and our deputy there is already trying to yell at us -- to confirm in the Court report that objective IT criteria are being used in the selection of businesses that benefit from the interest-free loans of COSGEB, and are not allowed to operate at all. So you're here to cheat. You're giving money to your allies. I find a number of statements like that very inappropriate; they're slanders, they're slanders, they're...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0341par0429	Mr. Secretary, what does the Court's audit say, the Court's audits?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0430	Court inspection, I said it here, you have to prove it. We don't attract anything to anyone, all of our processes are digital.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0341par0432	What about those reports?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0330par0433	We don't see any businesses, everything's in a computer setting.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0341par0434	What about the Court reports?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0342par0435	Congressman, you're always interfering! Mr. Engin, please, his friend...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0343par0437	In the year 2020 of COSGEB...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0342par0438	Wait a second... It doesn't suit you. It's not necessary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0343par0440	...there's a simple technical explanation for the reduction in payability from the previous year. That is because the three-year support programme, which started in 2017, ran out of payments in 2019. In a nutshell, there are no reductions in COSGEB's new support budget. We conduct legal metrology activities to protect trade and prevent unfair competition.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0344par0442	It's in the budget, Minister.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0343par0443	If you listen, you'll understand.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0344par0444	You say no, but you don't know. It's in the budget, it's in the numbers.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0343par0445	If you listen, you'll understand.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0345par0446	Minister, wait a minute, wait a minute... Congressman, the Deputy Director of the Group can't shut you up either.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0343par0448	This year...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0345par0449	Wait a minute, Mr. Secretary, wait a minute... Mr. Congressman, listen to our Minister, our Group Chairman is standing in front of you, so relax. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0452	This year, we did an examination of the 1,358,200 gauge device. We've issued a fine for 4,644 gauges that are illegal in these examinations. With the change made by our Supreme Assembly, administrative fines for measuring equipment users have been put into a more fair and proportional system. His periodic examination was granted a one-time exemption for past measurements. So we've reinvented $150,000 of equipment worth 130 million in disposable assets to the economy. On behalf of our tens of thousands of merchants who have benefited from this change, I want to thank you, our esteemed deputies. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Honourable lawmakers, we will take strategic steps in the areas of industry and technology in the coming period. We've focused on the rail systems, and we're aiming to produce all the critical components of these vehicles with higher domesticity rates. In partnership with TBITAK and TCDD, we established the Institute of Rayl Transport Technologies. The institute will develop the railway technologies our country needs by designing them with domestic and national possibilities. The creation of the Industrialisation Executive Board was adopted by the Supreme Assembly under the 11th Development Plan. The board will provide common guidance in the public to encourage domestic production and will monitor the implementations. Our Ministry will take over the secretariat duties of our president's board. We'll increase our production power by multiplying planned industrial fields. We'll strengthen the management mechanisms for effective use of parcels in industrial areas. We will make the OSB a center of attraction, especially for female workers, entrepreneurs and students. We create new models for our industrialists to provide low-cost and long-term land or buildings in the OSB. We'll be sharing the alternatives with the public soon. We work for a simple, efficient and more efficient investment incentive system. We've come to the final stage in transitioning to the borough-based regional incentive model that our investors are demanding intensively, and we're going to announce it to the public. We're going to increase predictability for investors. Our Ministry is running the Secretariat of the Co-ordinating Board to improve the investment environment. Here, we table many different areas, such as working life, taxes, added value production, trade, infrastructure and energy, and we decide our steps together with the private sector. We're bringing the Regional Enterprise Fund to life. We will support businesses with potential growth and new regional initiatives with this fund. With the EU's financial contribution, Turkey, which we will build to support technologically-based initiatives, will begin its next Fund with 80m euros in volume. With this venture capital fund, we'll be able to fund early-stage initiatives by 2023, up to 500m euros. With the Institute of Turkish Standards, we will make our country one of the countries that governs standards. Again, a CHP MP criticised the agreement signed between our Institute and Qatar, saying "All Qatar, always Qatar." First of all, let's make one mistake right. The Turkish Institute of Standards has made deals with more than 125 countries, with the international and regional organisation, not only with Qatar (the Qatar), facilitating the free movement of Turkish products. In the last five years alone, he has acquired $60 million in income from his foreign activities. I'd like to ask what's bothering you here. The profit of the TSE? Is that profit from Qatar?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0347par0460	Qatar...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0461	Or is this about the opposition?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0348par0463	Qatar is getting a license from Cyprus, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0464	But we'll be on our way. In particular, technology standards...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0348par0465	Don't let him get a license from Cyprus to look for oil, Minister.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0466	...we'll be able to participate more actively in international standardization processes. We're going to further strengthen our infrastructure of standardization and fitness assessment. We aim to put the Turkish Patent and Branda Foundation among the top 10 authorities in the world. We'll make arrangements for the ficri property legislation to manage open innovation and open source software effectively. We'll take inventory of patents and useful models and open them to the private sector. Precious lawmakers conduct RD activities in strategic areas such as defence, space, security, energy, medicine, chemistry, environment, food and materials. Of course, these activities become mass production through product and then technology transfer. Again, I'd like to talk to you about a product developed by the private sector with TBITAK support. He said it was a laser. These diodes are used in critical high-tech areas, such as robotic surgical devices, laser cutting machines and laser markers used in the defence industry. The countries are in a race to get a share of the $14 billion market. We are one of the few countries with this technology today, and I want to draw your attention to that number. The export value of the chips in these laser diodes is $2 million per kilogram. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Here, we use the budget you gave us to support and add projects like this. This is a very valuable industrial institution of our firm, Bursa.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0349par0470	Well, Mr. Secretary, $2 million for $15 billion, what's that all about?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0471	Honored MPs, we're building the Institute for Artificial Intelligence. We aim to process, make sense of the large data we have, transform it into information and economic value. We've launched the Open Source Platform initiative with our technology companies, NGOs and relevant institutions. By increasing our number of programmers, we'll develop local open source solutions. That way, we'll reduce external dependency, increase financial savings, and eliminate possible cyber security issues. This year, we carried out our third scientific expedition and built our temporary science base in Antarctica, and we waved our glorious flag across the white continent in our temporary science base. Our ultimate goal in the Antarctic Agreement System is to take control of the future of the continent by moving from observer country status to consulting country status. We established the Institute for Polar Studies under the roof of TUBITAK to maintain more institutional projects related to Antarctica. Turkey's Space Agency, a 20-year dream of our country, has begun its activities. In 2020 we will announce the National Space Programme, which we have prepared with the understanding that non-space countries will have no say on the earth in the future, and you said, "Did you build this institution for a friend?" And here's where I regret it. The agency will develop launch systems for access to space, providing technology transfers to air and spacecraft projects that will be produced by local means. Dear friends, as you can see, Turkey is growing, evolving in every sense.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0350par0476	He's flying, he's flying!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0351par0477	For once, God bless you. Did you tie it to automatics?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0478	But unfortunately, we see no sign of such an omen in our opposition. In particular, I want to talk about Mr. Paylan. Whatever he said last year or at the Commission, he repeated it here.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0352par0481	So do you, so do you!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0482	He's talking about technology 4.0, technology 5.0, but unfortunately, Paylan -1.0 is still counting.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0352par0484	So do you!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0485	He also said he wanted to be an astronaut. I think he's not fit to be an astronaut, but if our scientists agree, we can send him to Antarctica, where he can control the activities of our science base. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Turkish Academy of Sciences continues to support the leading and groundbreaking research of scientists. For our young scientists, we built the TUBA Youth Academy. During the Year of Fuat Sezgin, our scientists, our academy members held conferences at universities throughout the year. Both the TÜBA Science Awards and the TÜBİTAK Science Awards, hopefully on December 30th, we will submit to the owners in front of our President. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, five minutes, please. There are also four minutes in which Ms. Rusar did not use it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0353par0490	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0491	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to address the allegations made by some MPs in particular. The MPs who spoke on behalf of the opposition here spoke stubbornly about one imaginary man's regime.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0354par0493	Imaginary?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0494	Turkey's so-called antidemocraticism is what they say. Look, dear friends, the majority of the elections in Turkey have been held with 85-90 per cent turnouts, not 45-50 per cent, like in the Western participant you cited. Our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, won 14 of his 14 elections with overwhelming superiority, with the great gratitude of our nation.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0355par0497	We wait for the 15th, we wait for the 15th, Mr. Secretary, we wait for the 15th.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0498	That's the real reason for the complex that you can't get over. If you want to compare Turkey to the West, first look at yourself; look at the presidents who have lost nine of the nine elections they've made since they came into office.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0355par0501	You're not political!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0346par0502	You can't show one such example in the West, where you're a fan.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0356par0503	How can you talk like that?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0355par0504	You're not political!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0356par0505	You can't talk like that, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0357par0506	You can't set such an example anywhere in the world.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0356par0507	You can't have a conversation like that!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0358par0508	You are appointed by the President!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0356par0509	You can't have a conversation like that!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0359par0510	Do politics, then...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0358par0511	You do politics, then you do politics, then...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0360par0512	He does politics, of course he has the right! He does politics!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0358par0513	You're not political! You've been assigned! You will bow to the House, you will bow to the House! You'll even get elected and come!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0361par0514	You're looking at elected lawmakers!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0362par0515	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0363par0516	If there's a democracy, I'm talking here! If there's a democracy, I'm talking here!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0364par0517	You've been chosen, bride! You've been chosen, bride! Your contacts have been chosen!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0363par0518	Let's go!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0365par0519	Why are you including the president?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0364par0520	It's a shame!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0366par0521	Shame!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0364par0522	Take your pick! Take your pick!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0367par0523	There's the order man!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0368par0524	Here's Jeremy Corbyn, who lost the election in England, resigned. Now...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0369par0525	Shame!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0370par0526	Take your pick! Take your pick!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0371par0527	Come on, pick it up!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0372par0528	Minister, wait a minute... Mr. Engin, Deputy Director of the Group, has asked for a word, dear friends. Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0373par0530	In the name of the executive, he speaks for the presidency, part of the administration.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0372par0531	Here you go, Mr. Secretary, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0374par0532	Now, you're going to ignore these democratic victories, you're going to accuse the regime of one man... do you know who the only man is, our MPs? The man who lost nine of his nine choices and still insisted on sitting in his seat is called one man.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0375par0534	Take your pick! Take your pick! You win and you come! Win and come!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0374par0535	In order to protect his seat, he defied the party's internal democracy and went to Ashliya.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0376par0537	Pack it up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0375par0538	That's not how the Secretary of the President talks!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0377par0539	He's a politician!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0378par0540	There is no single man's regime in this country, but there is only one man's opposition in this House.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0379par0542	You're only saying that because he's assigned one man!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0380par0543	You're here as the branches of one man, branches!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0379par0544	Tell me about the bankrupt companies.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0381par0545	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0380par0546	Respect the House, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0381par0547	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0382par0548	I speak very respectfully.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0380par0549	Speak with respect to the House! Please... please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0382par0550	I'm being very respectful.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0383par0551	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0384par0552	It's not your place! Not in your place!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0382par0553	I'm being very respectful.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0383par0554	Wait a minute, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0385par0555	It's not your place to talk to a general president!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0386par0556	Not to your place, to your place! Know your place!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0383par0557	Mr. Secretary, wait a minute... Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0386par0559	Know your place! Know your place!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0387par0560	What a finger you're waving at!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0383par0561	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... now, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0386par0562	Speak of the devil!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0388par0563	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0389par0564	Come and tell me! Come and tell me!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0390par0565	You're calling our friend to the stand! That's no way to say it!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0391par0566	You can't say anything to the President General!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0392par0567	Is your president exempt from everything? You speak to the President. Is the president exempt from that?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0393par0568	Congressmans, now, the Turkish nation is watching us.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0394par0569	Would you mind turning on my microphone, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0393par0570	Wait a minute... wait a minute... Dear lawmakers, the group has requested a word to respond to your deputy president, Mr. Secretary. That's yelling, I assure you, it's not true. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0395par0573	I'm not done talking, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0396par0574	The president, you've extended it three times, and he's spoken to us three times. He's not talking about the Ministry.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0397par0575	That's enough!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0398par0576	Who did you turn Filyos to, Mr. Secretary? You gave Zonguldak Filyos to the Tosian conglomerate.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0399par0577	Why don't you get 8 million unemployed people a job? What are you talking about?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0400par0578	I'm a member of our President's Cabinet with 52 per cent votes, and if you call him one man, you'll get the answer here.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0399par0580	What will you do with Ekrem Imamoğlu in Istanbul, and what will you do with him? Where? Ekrem Imamoglu got 56 percent, where is he?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0401par0581	Speak like the Minister, it's a shame!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0402par0582	Who the hell are you to talk to the President General! Who do you think you are!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0403par0583	Again, CHP MP Tripoli came to the stand and spoke of the oranges that Gazi Mustafa Kemal had planted. What is it, sir? Those oranges have been sold, and his money has been set up, so you can keep them wherever you want.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0404par0584	Where does that leave you? It's a fact of Turkey.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0403par0585	What year did Gazi Mustafa Kemal die? 1938. WHEN was IT founded? 1970. What kind of orange is this? Either you don't know the price of an orange or you've never seen an orange!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0405par0588	Are you uncomfortable with Ataturk, Minister? Tell me if you're uncomfortable with Ataturk. Are you uncomfortable with Ataturk?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0406par0589	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0403par0590	If there are such precious oranges, give them to us, and we will transfer technology with TUBITAK. So should we feel sorry for the country's opposition, or should we feel sorry for all of them?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0407par0591	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0403par0592	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0407par0593	Come to the last page, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0403par0594	The end.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0407par0595	Come to the last page, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0403par0596	Mr. President, in the new story of our country's growth, all of our ministry's resources have been mobilized for our entrepreneurs and scientists, especially our industrialists, workers, women and young people. On the way to economic and technological independence, we will have basic principles of cooperation, coordination and predictability. We will use every penny of our nation's trust in this budget with precision to increase the welfare of our nation with our vision of national technology, powerful industry. I thank each and every one of you for your contributions to the negotiations on behalf of my own and all of my colleagues with these thoughts and feelings, and I wish you all the best in our 2020 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0407par0599	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0408par0602	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0409par0603	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your description of one man.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0407par0605	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the esteemed MPs, our Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Engin, has taken a pledge.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0408par0606	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I salute you and the General Assembly. In Parliament, I witnessed a principle, a principle in the new system, and it is this: The duty of the members of the government's cabinet is to come to this parliament and answer; it is not the right to ask for an account, it is not the right to make a polemic!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0410par0610	Yeah, there's no such thing! Where does it say it, where does it say it? There's no such thing! You're going to say everything, you're not going to get an answer; you're not!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0408par0611	Mr. Akbasoglu makes interest polemics, debates; Mr. Bostancı does that, Mr. Erdogan does that, but from the chest...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0411par0612	You can't report to the government!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0408par0613	We report to the government; it's our job, it's our job, but it's unacceptable for a cabinet member to have just acted in the manner of an unelected cabinet member who's come to the council to present and defend his budget.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0412par0614	He's the representative of the elected presidency.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0408par0615	It's simple, it's simply ill-advised, it's out of line! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Plus, a lot of choices can be won, a lot of choices can be lost. We didn't say, "Why did Tayip Erdogan win nine elections?"
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0412par0618	14, 14!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0408par0620	Fourteen, okay. We looked for the flaw ourselves, we found it, and we won the final election.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0413par0623	You have won along with HDP.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0408par0624	Especially not Kemal Kilicdaroğlu, who received nearly a million differences in the renewed June 23rd elections, but Recep Tayyip Erdogan. All of you have this pain, and you will continue to live with it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0414par0626	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0408par0627	You'll live on with this pain. I'd also like to say to my group, dear friends, that we've recently told you that the AK PARTY Group is suffering from twin labor pains, and this pain has also covered the Presidential Cabinet, so be nice. (CHP cheers) So the end of their power has appeared. When there's a cliff ahead of you, when there's an end to it, it's not much forts to take. Turkey is going through a change, it's going to happen. In Turkey's next -- I think -- very, very, very soon -- general election, the people will consider you, this presidency government system, and its members in the way they deserve.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0415par0629	You've said that 14 times already, it's the 14th.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0408par0630	I repeat, Mr. Secretary, you are suffering from twin labor pains, and I welcome your speeches. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0416par0633	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0417par0634	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0418par0635	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0417par0636	I give my word to the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0419par0638	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we've listened to the Minister's response to his criticisms here, so far there's no problem. But I'll tell you one thing.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0420par0639	So...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0419par0640	Who was it that said, "Well..."?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0421par0641	Yeah, you talk.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0419par0642	I'll tell you about him. I'll tell you later, but in the back, not here, in the back.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0421par0643	I'm not hearing what you're saying, I'm returning it!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0419par0644	In the back, not here.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0421par0645	I can't hear you, I'm returning your speech.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0419par0646	Oh, Akbil's defendant, wait a minute! You scammed the city and came here, for God's sake, sit down!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0421par0648	I'll return whatever you say!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0419par0649	Come on, sit down! Come on, get that white man out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0421par0650	I'll return whatever you say!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0422par0651	Proceed, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0419par0652	Minister, he can be criticized. However, here you have created such a freaky system called the presidential government system that you have the authority to tell you and only your Ministry; unfortunately, that's what you do. So, I'm calling your statements unfortunate. It's a little bit of power poisoning, but I want to remind you, please look at the fate of politicians who are suffering from power poisoning in history. I don't think you deserve such a fate. I want you to get your act together a little bit. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0423par0655	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0424par0656	Fatma, I promised you, you answered.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0425par0657	Mr. President, do you have any say in this?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0426par0658	What's he gonna promise you? You're getting polemic here! You don't have that right!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0425par0660	You're not shouting, you're not yelling!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0426par0661	You come, you defend your budget.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0425par0662	You're gonna be a bully, and I'm gonna sit here!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0427par0664	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0428par0666	Mr. President, with all due respect to the esteemed lawmakers...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0429par0667	Do you have the right to make such a move?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0430par0668	There is! You should know your place! You're doing polemics here. What's going on?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0429par0670	There's no such thing, I'm sorry. Don't just stand up and do a hand-to-hand move on the Minister.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0430par0672	Why are you standing up? Why are you pulling your hand? You learn the rights, the law of the House. Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0431par0674	Dear friends, one moment...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0432par0675	Now, dear lawmakers, you'd be ashamed to come and see who created this mess from here. Come on, guys, this is the Deputy Group President speaking in a very good way. Your group's acting president, he's talking. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0431par0678	Mr. President, thank you. Dear MPs, we are all bound by the Constitution and the Civil Code. According to the Constitution and the Civil Code, we hold budget talks. There are speakers on this list for party groups. Representatives of the ministries that bring the budget, offering the budget, as a cabinet member, are also the owners of the proposal, representing the cabinet within the framework of the presidency government system, and they have the right to speak on behalf of the administration. So, we, with as much courtesy and kindness as we can today, despite the many unfair criticisms of our Speaker of Parliament -- in line with the request of our Deputy Presidents not to speak in between -- have been very obedient to this, and we have all come to the principle that he has established in the end about an evaluation. We have observed this gentlemanly approach in the same way.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0433par0682	Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0431par0683	First, our Trade Minister came in, they gave their speeches, and secondly, our Minister of Industry came in, they gave their speeches, and they answered some questions with open heart, as well as the issues expressed by our MPs. You're taking political criticisms against them. They've returned them, and they've taken our insults and so on and so on and so forth. Hence, those who bring political criticism need to be open to political criticism.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0434par0686	No political criticism.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0431par0687	No, that's not a distinction. Dear friends, look, there's a difference in life here, there's a difference in conduct, there's a difference in judgment. In the presidential government system, each body has its duties, powers and responsibilities in the Constitution within the framework of the system of separate forces. As a result, if we make unrealistic statements about the execution here, a member of the cabinet of the presidential government, a Minister, a person with political responsibility, will not respond to criticisms against our president, his cabinet, the activities committed unjustly, for God's sake.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0435par0692	Let's turn it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0431par0693	As a result, we, all of us, must show each other this tolerance. The dignity of the assembly is different, and we will observe the dignity of the assembly together. It's obvious that the executive has respect for the House. There's no hesitation in that. However, we see together what kind of insufferability is involved once again when we hear many times about the palace of the palace, as the dictator, as the one man, the didictator, as the one man. Why do you, Mr. President, when you call our President a man, we listen to you, we answer you in a civilized way, and you jump up and down and do a different kind of approach? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, what he's saying is that the Minister...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0436par0696	How much will he talk, sir? I'll request the same time again. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0431par0697	It's over, it's over.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0437par0698	Here, clean it up, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0431par0699	I'm finishing it, sir. I'm packing it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0438par0700	He just gave me an example. I think it's an important example.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0431par0701	What our Minister has established is that you say, "One man" but the government is a unconditional nation. The people are putting wills under the rule and the government system of the presidency is our government system from now on. You're running, you're winning, you're losing, you're losing...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0439par0702	You were the last to lose.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0440par0703	You don't take the election and accept defeat.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0431par0704	...you can't handle it; then you make illegal, unreal, mufti different adjectives.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0441par0705	For you have oppressed Istanbul, and for you have lost it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0431par0706	And you can't handle it when you're called a General President, when you're called a person who's really losing the election -- in terms of actually having a situation to consider -- which is a democratically important situation -- is that you lose the choice, and you can't accept it when you're called a general president, who's taking this seat by handing all his competitors in a different line of work. As a result...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0441par0708	Does he have a twin? Don't we know he has a twin?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0442par0709	Well, thank you, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0443par0710	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0442par0711	I'll make a promise to Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0444par0712	Dear friends, as a result, everyone must show the same tolerance and tolerance. I'm bringing this to your attention.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0443par0714	Look, we're showing you, we're showing you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0442par0715	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0445par0717	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the ministers' status is set in the Constitution; they answer to the Parliament, they answer to the Supreme Court and they have parliamentary immunity, and they have taken the oath of the MP on this stand. (MHP and AK PARTY) Now they're here to defend the budget of the presidency, and since morning, the president has been brought criticisms of the president with strong statements that have gone beyond criticism. Of course, he will respond to these criticisms, as long as all these discussions, all these discussions, are in line with the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, but Mr. Engin Altay, deputy leader of the CHP Group in the morning, criticised Mr. Akbasoglu when he responded to the criticisms. He said, "You can't answer, let the government respond to these criticisms." (MHP and AK PARTY) Now, when the government responds in the evening, it says: "How do you respond to our criticism?" (MHP and AK PARTY) Now, please let the Republican People's Party clarify their position on this issue. I see these arguments as useful and in terms of further negotiations. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0446par0722	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0447par0724	Mr. President, you can be anything in politics, you can't be just an ostrich; you're either a camel or a bird. There is no camel when you want, and there is no bird when you want. There is no camel when you want.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0448par0725	Like you?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0449par0726	Like you?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0447par0727	When you feel like it, there's no such thing. Look, do you know where this is all coming from? This freaky system you call the president's government system, it put Mr. President into such a weirdo. You're going to say something, you're going to criticize the president of the Justice and Development Party, but he's the President!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0450par0729	Mr. Turkkan, let's tell you about the system; you can't absorb it, you don't understand.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0447par0730	Isn't the president of a party to be criticized? Of course he is.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0451par0731	There is no discussion, there is no discussion about that; that is not the argument.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0447par0732	So don't choose to be an ostrich in politics. You have to make a choice, you're at a crossroads, you're either a camel or you're a bird. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0452par0735	You describe yourself, yourself!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0453par0736	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0454par0737	Mr. President, thank you. We're a group of people who criticize us by saying, "The regime of one man" and also our friend's name by two direct ministers... who already answered one minister, yes, I did, but the other Minister repeated it. On behalf of our group, Mr. Paylan will answer.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0455par0740	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0456par0742	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Varank, being an astronaut was a childhood dream of mine, and then I learned that there is no technology in this country and I'm disappointed. My point in this conversation was to make sure our children weren't disappointed in the same thing. Look, you've been telling a story for eight years, local and national. In the commission, you came, and in December, this will be the presentation. You said. Look, you couldn't go out and say, "It's local and it's a national car." That presentation was postponed. It's been eight years and another eight years. I'm afraid you can't talk about it, you're talking about the same conversation. Wikipedia's off. Of course I'm gonna say the same thing because Wikipedia is still closed. 113 people came to the country, and there was a brain drain on the other side. Hundreds of thousands of our citizens left this country because their freedom zone was narrowed down, hundreds of thousands of people left. 113 people came back, but they had a brain drain, you say. That doesn't make any sense.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0457par0747	We can't go on like this. You've made your point.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0458par0748	He speaks for the group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0457par0749	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0459par0750	Mr. Secretary, Ms. Rusar, you mentioned the expansion of the customs unit. We've been talking about the expansion of the customs union for years. Because the freedom zones are narrowed down, because we've destroyed the rule of law, you can't expand the customs union because of the Jootin Demirtaş prison; we can't do it because we're behind the democratic index. Look, I've been critical of your ministries, but I didn't hold you responsible, I held Erdogan and Süleyman Nobleman accountable in the first place because they destroyed the freedom zones. That's why science hasn't developed, technology hasn't developed, industry hasn't developed, and that's why you've stayed at 170 billion dollars. If all of this had happened, $500 billion would have been his target, but unfortunately, it's a failure because the freedom zones have narrowed down. I never targeted your person; my goal was to narrow down your government's freedom zones, and it was your failure as a result, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0460par0753	Mr. Altay, you want a word?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0754	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0460par0755	Mr. Altay, let this be the last and final conversation.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0756	If this is the last time, I'll talk for two minutes, but if it's not the last time, I demand five or six minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0460par0757	No, it's the last one, last one; talk for a minute. We'll ask Akbasoğlu to speak.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0759	Now, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0462par0760	I'll finish it, sir. I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0761	No, sir, the last time a big party talks, the smallest party talks. In numbers, it may be relatively small, but it's a lot bigger than you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0463par0763	What a shame!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0464par0764	Mr. President, who's the smallest party?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0765	Now, from here, from your department, from here to here, everyone is elected by the vote of the nation. I'd expect the AK PARTY lawmakers to show the reflex that I've shown, for that matter, Mr. President, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Is there any power greater than that? No. One of the three legs of the government device and the most basic. There's an executive device; it's chosen as the only person in charge -- one man -- and then it builds its own technical staff. That's the name of this system. The technical staff technically operates within the executive body in the Presidential Cabinet. They come here and swear for other reasons. I mean, I'm not saying it's a bad reason.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0465par0766	It's got a political quality, though.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0767	It could be political, Mr. President. An unelected person can't make a polemic out of you. An unelected person will come and answer to you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0465par0769	He'll do it here, and he won't mind.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0770	Sir, that's my opinion. If he does, we have the answer to every word! But I...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0466par0771	You have a minister!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0772	Yeah, well, you do, too, 'cause you don't stutter, and so do you, honey. We'll talk till morning, no problem.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0467par0773	There are those who look after them, and there are those who look after them, and there are those who are noble.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0774	I'm trying not to compromise the reputation of lawmakers and yours here, dear lawmakers. (God bless you from the ranks of the AK PARTY!)) (sounds) Yes, Mr. Group Vice Presidents say everything, they say everything; we say it, we criticize it, we argue it; sometimes it's hard, sometimes it's soft. But I repeat, I'm not gonna have a bureaucrat here with my party, let alone a critic, who's not elected; I'm not doing it, he's not doing it. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Mr. Akçay, I said the government should respond to criticism of the government. I want those answers; he gave some of them, we don't agree. Mr. Akbasoglu must have said it for him. Their business is the government; the government will come, defend its budget.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0468par0778	He's defending it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0779	Mr. Erkan, for God's sake, you're a man who knows better than I do.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0468par0780	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0781	It's a violation of the legislature, disrespect of the election, disrespect of the chest. The president of the CHP lost 14 elections; it's none of your business! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, look, I have something to say...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0469par0784	I didn't tell you to take it personally, why did you take it personally?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0785	Put your hand down, put your hand down!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0469par0787	I didn't say anything, why are you taking it personally?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0788	Put your hand down, put your hand down!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0469par0789	Put your hand down!
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0470par0790	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0791	I have something to say, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0470par0792	Yes, please, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0793	I'll tell you something like that, but I still can't help it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0470par0794	Don't say it, don't say it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0795	But one day I'm gonna tell you, and one day I'm gonna tell you, and you're gonna walk home from here with your face on the floor. Don't make me talk anymore. You should know your place! I didn't mention Akbasoglu's name. I spoke to Erkan Bey, and I spoke to the minister, and I spoke to the minister. Why would Akbasoglu want words now?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0471par0797	You got it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0798	No, for one thing, I'm not done yet. I have something to say. Now, again, I'm telling the Republican People's Party friends that if two major parties come out of a political party within a month, take that delusion normally, be understanding. She's having two parties in a month. AK PARTY, it's not easy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is a priority, especially since Turkey has led to an economic disaster. Those parties were formed for a reason, for a reason. If I were you, we'd won 14 elections, Kilicdaroğlu never won. What happened to the AK PARTI split like a watermelon and split like a watermelon? I think it's dark.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0472par0803	You're dreaming, you're dreaming.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0804	We'll see, we'll see. New parties are not born from inside the CHP, they are born from you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0473par0806	There's a gap in opposition.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0807	We'll see. So, the Trade Minister is here...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0474par0809	You're dreaming, you're dreaming.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0810	The last one to laugh, the last one to laugh, the last one to laugh. To our Minister of Commerce... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, we didn't say anything because a friend of ours was talking, you didn't say anything, we're being harassed in a choir, you're not saying anything.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0475par0814	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0461par0815	Thank you very much for our Trade Minister. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) The new Constitution in effect and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have taken a stand here with a proper Minister's attitude, with their ears ringing in the presence of parliament, Nevzat Pakdil very loud. I'd like to thank the Trade Minister. And I recommend to the Minister of Industry and Technology that he learn this system again first. Then, I expect him to respond to criticism of his budget on the General Assembly bench, defend his budget, place his claims and sit down -- if he remains in the following budgets -- if he stays as Minister.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0476par0818	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0477par0819	If you keep the polemics going, I'll take a break. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0476par0822	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, of course, we've heard Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0478par0824	We've been listening to you all morning.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0476par0825	Sir, there's a phrase called the snake that fell into the sea. So it's been up here before, and it's been in some metaphors of pregnancy, internal pregnancy, etc., and so on and so forth.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0478par0826	After all, you're in labor. Here comes the child, the other one.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0476par0827	As a result, you do not have to rely on such useless things; come out with your own wrist, with your own heart, and do not rely on other things.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0478par0828	We did, sir, we did; you ate a million differences in Istanbul, how quickly did you forget?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0476par0829	Our group is safe and sound, alhamdulillah. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let me tell you, dear friends, once the ministers are not technocrats, the ministers are ministers.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0479par0832	Let's wrap this up, for God's sake.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0476par0833	I'm putting together some false statements against our group, and I have to answer them. So what our dear friends want is that we bring all sorts of criticism, and you don't hear it, accept it.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0479par0835	Sir, answer the taunts.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0476par0836	I'm responding to bullying. As a result, outside ministers were appointed in the parliamentary government system, correct? They were appointed, they were coming here, they were sworn in, they were wearing immunity armor, they had a political responsibility.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0480par0838	None of them did the polemics, none of them did the polemics.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0476par0839	As a result, the same situation is at stake today. If you see it technically, technically you bring your reviews, you don't bring political criticism to those who bring in the budget.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0481par0840	What if we don't bring political criticism and we don't bring political criticism? Don't bring political criticism. Is that okay?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0476par0841	As a result, if you bring political criticism to those who bring the budget, they have the right to politically defend themselves, legal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a result, I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0482par0845	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, you've just told me what you're talking about.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0476par0847	You said: "We are not camels, we are not birds, I want to express it. While the prime ministers run the state as head of the administration, they are also the leader of a political party. Those who don't understand the system here, those who don't understand the new system, those who invite our ministers to understand the system, please read the Constitution again, have the will of the nation, the will of our nation has been established three times, and the presidency has approved the government system three times. He chose the head of the executive, he gave the vote of confidence, and he determined the living.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit05spe0482par0849	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0482par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account C) HELAL AKRIDITATION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2018 Central Management Final Account I) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 The commission is in place. The last word for the individuals is Abraham Ethem Sedef, against him.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0483par0056	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the Parliamentary General Assembly meeting of the esteemed MPs, the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2020, and the Central Executive Account Law Proposal of 2018. I salute your esteemed delegation and the mighty Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, strengthening our country's economy and moving forward is one of the most important issues of the National Movement Party. It will be possible to provide the services our citizens need with proper planning. The investment of the 2020 budget is our only desire for it to serve a purpose that strengthens production and employment. The rational government will lead our country's resources to the ministry. With the budgets being prepared, the equality of our people's opportunities, the distribution of fair income, and the minimum living conditions must be provided. In general, I find the budget draft to be positive, but I'd like to present our various opinions and proposals here. Our small tradesmen and COBIs in my constituency, Yozgat, express their distress every time we visit. Imagine a tailor, a grocery store, a tire, or a shoe repairman, working in the heat of winter, working in the heat of winter to earn his house's food from the toilet during the month, but they can't save the day, they can't even pay the social security premiums, many of them are in debt. As soon as our tradesman's social security premiums are reduced, norms and standard union must be established, pension bonus days and monthlys must be equalised. We see 1.4 billion dollars from the budget of 2020 to our SME and entrepreneurs, who are struggling to survive and are downsized in competition against large businesses. We hope and believe that even if it's not enough, it will contribute substantially to strengthening their business. When economic resuscitation is achieved, employment will also be increased indirectly. Mr. President, we've seen valuable lawmakers transfer 188.6 billion dollars in health care within the budget of 2020. Once a regular increase in the annual budget to improve quality in education and health care, our citizen will have time and quality service. The 2020 budget also offers serious medical costs and serious resources to city hospitals. Huge, great buildings were built, the first of which was Yozgat City Hospital. They're doing a great job, but there's a lot of need for an attending. I'd like to make a parentheses here: In the past few months at Yozgat City Hospital, our Councilman Mustafa Bakanlı Beye had a heart attack, and he received his own mercy during the angio. I remember him from this place with mercy, and I ask God's mercy, but if there was a bypass at City Hospital during the angio, maybe he'd be among us today. I cherish him again. There are hundreds of thousands of health and education staff waiting to be appointed in health; their eyes and ears are in our high council every day. Another important issue is that our university student brothers and sisters are in need of an urgent arrangement on the matter. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, important investments have also been made in the transport area, but the land road linking my constituency, Yozgat, to the capital, and Ankara-Yozgat-Sivas' fast train projects have not yet been completed. In this regard, we need to answer the expectations of our Yozgat people, and believe me, we've been waiting for ten years. Dear lawmakers, when it's said to be a budget, let the people live. We support the struggle of our heroic Turkish Armed Forces against terrorism to the end. They don't give a pass to traitors, Turkish enemies, alhamdulillah, and what do they call it? We bow to God, the flag that flies in the sky.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0484par0065	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0483par0066	May God have mercy on my brothers, who have died and died for the cause of the land, who have fought heroically, and have long lives in good health to our veterans. All of our defense and security units against terrorist threats must be met, and our defence industry must be developed. Our nation's pupil, the Turkish Armed Forces, should not be spared any threat within the country or abroad, and no criticism should be taken. As I end my words, our leader, Dr. State Gardenli, expressed in our election declaration in 2002, first in our country's territory, and in 2023, the leader country wishes that our budget be a blessing, each one of you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0484par0069	Congressmans, the talks in round four are complete. Now we're going to question-answer. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0485par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the Trade Minister and ask him: China is investing in a $21 trillion budget in 65 countries with a Belt Road Project. Is it true that we're giving up our cabotage on Turkey's foot? Is it true that no taxes are to be taken from the vehicles carrying the goods of Chinese companies? Is it true that no highway will ever pay for bridge crossings? Won't a truck carrying Chinese goods through our port gate leave a dime on this land? Will Chinese trains go in and out of Edirne, no questions asked? When China completes its project, what measures are taken against losing our markets around us, our COBIs being seriously damaged in brutal competition, feeding to China, and the risk of increasing unemployment. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0486par0075	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0487par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Trade Minister: Mr. Secretary, in your presentation, you have said that the upgrade of the Customs Union is the priority of the European Union, and we hope so, of course, but -- I as a member of the European Union's Integration Commission -- in the talks with the European Union institutions, it is clear that the Customs Union will not be updated unless progress is made in Copenhagen Political Criters, and this is even reflected in the reports. What do you have to say about that? In the elections held yesterday, Britain will be released from the European Union by the end of January. After Britain's departure from the EU, what concrete steps have Turkey taken, which is the biggest economic risk in the process of international economic, commercial relations? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0488par0080	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0489par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Commerce: Last year, your Ministry's officers were printing potatoes, onions, and you were declaring the manufacturer a hoarder and a terrorist. This year, potato production has increased, even at the cost of the merchant, you're gone. Right now, the warehouses are potato gravel. They had hopes for exports, but with the new arrangement, you made it difficult to sell abroad, you brought in new expenses. From Niğde, the truck will go to Mersin for exports, and if the terms of exports fail, the merchant will be left in the middle. You can't buy products with this app. Why are these analyses not done in Niğde? Besides, will you encourage the potatoes to go abroad? Or are you just gonna watch him rot in the warehouse? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0490par0084	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0491par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I strongly condemn the U.S. Senate's decision regarding the events of 1915 with no historical awareness and no legal basis. Those whose past is full of genocide have no right to slander our heroic ancestors, our glorious history. My question to our Minister of Commerce will be about the Hellal Accreditation Foundation: Mr. Minister, the concept is not only limited to food products today, it appeals to a very large sector and tourism, such as finance, textiles, pharmaceutical products, cosmetics, logistics and tourism. The concept of helal (Helal) must include the qualities of health, hygiene and quality at every stage until it reaches the consumer from the production of products to the consumer. What institutional studies are being carried out on increasing awareness in this area? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0492par0089	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0493par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Trade Minister: 70 per cent of the export of our narcissistic products produced in Mersin is being done to Russia, Iraq, Ukraine and Romania. On the other hand, 40 per cent of the world's demand for citrus comes from European Union member states. The European Union has a 7.7 billion-dollar citrus market. Are the studies needed for Turkey to get a share of the market and compete with other producer countries? My questions to our Minister of Industry: Mersin is an important agricultural city in our country. Age is the leading province of Turkey in the production of vegetables and fruit. Our beautiful Mersin is absent from the facilities where these agricultural products will be processed. In this sense, when will an extremely important initiative in the development of Mersin's Foods Ihtisas Organised Industrial District be completed? In our provinces, such as Adana, Mersin, Niğde, Aksaray, Iconium, to reduce unemployment, industrial investments are to be increased...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0494par0094	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0495par0095	I ask the Minister of Commerce: Is it possible to arrange for the removal of funds and cuts, such as the municipal fund, which makes up the largest entries for the survival of the iron steel sector, especially the gas tax? If not, what are their reasons? Do you have any efforts to tighten the technical controls in customs to block the entrance of inferior steel products to Turkey, or what? If not, why aren't technical controls made healthy? How do you save on taking measures to encourage the introduction of steel consumption by domestic producers, lifting burdens that limit competitiveness over professions? Why is it not mandatory to use steel products produced in the country, such as regional power pipelines, third airport, the Çanakkale Bridge, in large public projects, as in developed countries? A pricing of electricity energy prices based on the amount of consumption...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0496par0100	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0497par0101	Thank you, Mayor. And you said that the gate of the Olive branch was opened, and it was opened. According to the ministry data, 52 tons of olives and potatoes were imported from this door. Can you explain to me what law and who you're dealing with, who are you dealing with here?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0496par0103	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0498par0104	I'm asking Madam Secretary: AKP governments say we're clearing the way for the industrialist at every turn. We support the producers. He makes speeches. We've seen how these lectures happen while watching the Minister of Industry. Established under the Law of Co-operatives, Balıkesir Kuvayi Milliye Mines Small Industrial Building Site still awaits the allocation of the land they demand, but always faces obstacles. The site they requested was set up as a small industrial site of 1/5000, but their business is blocked by many excuses. I'm calling from here: this area was reserved for production, so why isn't it delivered to them? So far, there are over a thousand applications to the co-op. We need you to help us find a solution to this problem to comfort Balıkesir, to comfort our manufacturer.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0496par0105	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0499par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Trade Minister: Will you transfer funds to the 2020 budget to complete projects that are under the mandate and authority of our Adıyaman, your Ministry and so far incomplete? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0500par0109	Dear Goldstone...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0501par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking our Minister of Industry and Technology: When we look at the membership list of members of the Turkish Academy of Sciences, 22 of the total 37 members in science are academics in the field of chemistry and 12 of the academics in the field of physics, only three of them are academics in the field of mathematics. Why are there so few mathematicians? Are the mathematicians failing, or is there a glitch in the quantitative-based evaluation process? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0502par0113	Mr. Beko...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0503par0114	My question to the Trade Minister: Mr. Minister, the valued lawmakers; the Favourite employers created by the AKP government are burning their factories to avoid paying taxes, insurance and workers' severance. According to Istanbul fire department statistics, only in 2018 152 factories burned down in Istanbul, and in the last five years the number of factories was 840. Some of these workplaces have also been identified as fleeing abroad. Because of incompetent AKP governments, 8.5 million people in our country are unfortunately out of work. Do you have any work done on this subject? Do you intend to make an attempt to pay the workers' rights?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0502par0115	Mr. Ersoy...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0504par0116	I'd like to ask our Minister of Industry: Is there a new study of the incentive zone of my constituency, Kayseri? Because given the economic data of our other cities, our Kayseri is now in the 2nd district, but we think it should be at least in the 3rd district. Besides, is there going to be a county-based study? Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0502par0118	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0505par0119	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Minister of Industry and Technology: we need to increase domestic production, so we need to develop our own technology. One of the most important areas that we are technologically dependent on is the health sector. Drugs, medical equipment, vaccines and serums are strategical products. How do you support strategic studies in the field of health? In general, what do you do to increase technological capacity? How do you approach the idea of setting up technology universities and centers?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0502par0120	Now, I promise to answer the questions to the Commission and to conduct them. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0506par0122	Mr. President, our Commission has no questions to answer. That's why we're handing over our time to our ministers.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0507par0123	First of all, I'd like to start with the upgrade of the European Union. Yeah, it's a long-term deal, I don't think it was supposed to last this long when the Customs Union agreement was being held. Because there's no service trade, there's no agricultural products, there's no public purchases, plus now, there's an e-trade. The issue given to me during our talks with the European Commission on these issues and in our talks with the President of the Commission has been officially stated by some countries that these talks have been blocked for political reasons. I have not personally been informed that the process has been postponed by my counterpart, the Trade Commissioner, due to the Copenhagen Political Criters. The European Union report, dated October 14th, also reports the European Union's report, which is one of the priority issues for the upgrade of Turkey and Customs Union. Next week, we'll have our first meeting with Verheugen next week at 19, and hopefully it'll be a blessing. We'll continue our work in the right direction. As for the other questions... with England, yes, because of the Brexit process, our work continues. In the event that Brexit is a contractual or non-compromising Brexit, we will continue our agreements by expanding our relationship with the EU, perhaps because Britain has shown Turkey as one of the four countries where it will give the most weight to its trade. In the case of Brexit without a deal, our technical committees are already working mutually, we've completed six meetings. Apart from EU issues, we agreed on what measures we would take to prevent both agricultural products and service trade, logistics issues, and customs exporters from getting into trouble. Of course, we're going to have a disadvantage there, because of the customs union, we're going to be competing with the same conditions as the other countries, especially in automotive, textiles and white goods. And we are actively continuing our work on it. There's no analysis of our ministry of potato exports; there are analysis of the agriculture ministry in the vegetable fruit trade, but as a ministry, we encourage processed agricultural products rather than agricultural incentives.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0508par0126	Do it as a power, Mr. Secretary, as a power...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0507par0127	I'll answer questions about my ministry, if you'll excuse me. Well, there's been a lot of talk about the Hellal Accreditation, actually. The Hellal Accreditation Agency from the ground up...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0509par0129	Did you give him any documents, Mr. Secretary, did you give him any documents? That's what it looks like to us.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0507par0130	If you listen, Congressman, I'll tell you, and I'm sure you'll be convinced.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0510par0131	Mr. Secretary, didn't you raid the warehouses last year?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0511par0132	You go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0507par0133	The Hellal Accreditation Foundation is an institution founded from scratch. The guys we hired here are not people who know about acretization, they know about certification; they're all trained from scratch. Accompanyers needed to be certified and educated. It's a process, and they've all been through one-on-one training and certification process. The amount of money spent here could also be $7,400,000 Turkish liras, from its establishment. There are no 15 million,600,000 Turkish liras, so we can show you all the records if you want. Here, the reconstruction, the renovation, the renovation, the software, the information process, the security, the equipment, all these salaries and Social Security payments are in that money. In this process, a control pool was created, and 40 legislations were prepared. As of October 16th, he was able to act as an accessory to the presidential decree; he also moved to his building on November 15, 2019. Right now, we have 14 demands. They also successfully completed their initial accordion inspections at the Turkish Institute for Standards. Our first accordion will be the Institute of Turkish Standards. The Turkish Standards are doing halal documentation, you know. In order to export more services, we bring it up during talks with other countries, especially as the Ministry of Commerce, and it's very welcome. We've also signed a few collaborative agreements, and hopefully, we'll continue by increasing that. We've begun our work to make the acreditation of the institutions that gave us the legal certifications from this helal market. Now, of course, we can't do that right now because the countries of the European Union -- because our agricultural products are not part of our Customs Union agreement -- will be updated, hopefully. The Department of Environment and Urbanization, which includes taxes, insurance, labor rights, and the family ministry. There was a question about the Antalya Free Zone. An area over 98 thousand square meters in our Antalya Free Zone has been included in the free zone. With this decision in effect, large ships were allowed to dock at the free zone dock, do renovations and export here. After that, however, there are no other available areas available for expansion around the Antalya Free Zone. And we're still working on that. Increase the number of business advisors and problems of our working people abroad, the lack of trade counsel in Ukraine... As our Ministry, we now have a new study. We're putting them through a pre-education so our business advisors can be more proactive. And I said in my speech, We have created the Network of Trade Counselors. All of our business advisors are in contact with each other, and we're getting reports from them about their performance criteria, we're closely monitoring their work, and we want them to be the pioneers of the business world. So we're taking them through pre-education, but before we go, our trade attache to Ukraine -- Odessa -- started as of November 4th, and we're going to assign one to Kiev, but right now we're going to assign the entire Ukraine to our trade attache at Odessa, but we're going to assign it to Kiev. Other than that, we support our business advisors with local employees in the countries where they are. Our number of local employees has reached 120. At least two foreign speakers, a trading advisor, who is staying there, are under our Ministry's control; 23 of them have master's training. We often select our current business advisors from our friends, who know at least one foreign language and have as many degrees as possible. Now, despite the negative condition of the world's economic and political conjunctive, especially in Turkmenistan, of Turkish firms abroad, our firms continue to take jobs in particularly difficult geography. So we support these companies through Turkish EXIMBANK, we give them letters of intent, when we enter the tenders, even when we are collaborating with third countries in more difficult geography, like Germany, like England, France. In Germany, for example, 20 percent of them are British origins, giving 100 percent credit. With these, we're making pilot deals with EXIMBANK on the project, and we're making an effort to expand the credit opportunities of our contractors, including Africa. Now, Turkmenistan has gone through a difficult period, and payments have been in trouble since 2016. But at 2018, our firms were already unable to take the tender, they weren't bidding - 750 million...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0512par0141	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0513par0142	Now, in order to get public administrations in the fourth round transferred to their budgets and final accounts, I will have them read budgets and final accounts separately and submit them to your votes.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0512par0143	Mr. President, I'd like to say something.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0514par0144	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0515par0145	Mr. President, if he had finished, Mr. Secretary would have said so.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0516par0146	Aren't you two done talking?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0515par0147	It's not over. It's unfinished, Mr. President. If you promise, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0517par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0516par0149	I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Commerce will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2020 GENEL TOPLAM 5.752.364,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Commerce's central management budget was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ministry of Commerce in 2018 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Commerce Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance is 1,426,506,914,86 Budget Expenses 1,292.890.521.70 Compensation Expenses 137.251.65 Canceled Grant 133,659,437,56 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 11.144.793.16 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Commerce was adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ministry of Economics in 2018 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 4.365.650.498.00 Budget Expenses 3,864.682.005.58 Canceled Fund 500,968,492,42 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The economy ministry's final account of central management was approved in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Competitiveness Agency will be transferred to the central management budget in 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 42.07) RICOBET PRODUCTION 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 115,750,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 115,750,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management Budget of the Competitive Association was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Competitive Association for 2018 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Competitive Institution 2018 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 104,700,000.00 Budget Expenses 88,289,155,80 Canceled Fund 16,410,844,20 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (B): Budget Profits estimated 84,500,000.00 Collection 88,214,992,73 Ret and Returns 1,463,921,84 Net Collection 86,751,070,89 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2018 were adopted by the Competitive Association. I submit to your votes that the Hellal Accreditation Agency will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.63) HELAL AKRODITION BUILDING 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 4,191,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 4,091,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Hellal Accreditation Agency was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Hellal Accreditation Agency shall be transferred into its chapters in 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 7,743.000.00 Budget Expenses 4,999,144,12 Canceled Fund 2,743,855,88 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sum of the ruler (B): Collection 7.772.727,02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2018 were adopted by the Hellal Accreditation Agency. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Industry and Technology will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 26) SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY LOOK 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 7.939.333.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ministry of Industry and Technology in 2018 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Industry and Technology Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 7.242.190.927,27 Budget Expenses 6,777,149,650,28 Cancelled Fund 465.041.276.99 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 141,692.546,67 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2018 of the Ministry of Industry and Technology were adopted. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.34) GAP CONTROL 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 87.999,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 86,749.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the GAP Regional Development Administration's Central Management Account for 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 146,793,000,00 Budget Expenses 127,937,607,07 Compensation Expenses 11.335,872.87 Cancelled Fund 30.191.265.80 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 146,578,000,00 Collection 134,533,949,51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Management Account of the GAP Regional Development Administration were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration's presidency will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget TOPLAM 90.920.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 90.720.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration was adopted for 2020. I submit to your votes that the East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration's Central Management Account for 2018 will be transferred to its chapters: those who accept... those who do not. 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 165,487,105,82 Budget Expenses 131,469,681,48 Canceled Fund 34.017.424.34 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 157,974,000.00 Collection 155,065,951,68 Ret and returns 14.459,56 Net Collection 155,051,492,12 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration was adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Office of the District Development Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2020, in which those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.55) CONTROL PROJECT CONTROL CENTER 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 118,250,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: TOPLAM 118,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Coin Plain Project was adopted as the central management budget for 2020 of the Regional Development Administration. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management Account for the Office of the District Development Administration for 2018 shall be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 232.377.211.22 Budget Expension I97. 414. 691,67 Canceled Fund 34,962,519,55 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 213,307,000.00 Collection 199,437,375,65 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account for 2018 of the Office of the District Development Administration have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration's presidency will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 86.506,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 86.306,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration's Central Management Account for 2018 will be transferred to its chapters: those who accept... those who don't. 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 146,247,550.00 Budget Expenses 124,785,907,43 Canceled Fund 21,461,642,57 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 145,196,000,00 Collection 126,023,675,99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The East Black Sea Project was adopted in 2018 as part of the central management account of the Regional Development Administration. I submit to your votes that the president of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.30) THE PRESIDENT OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS TO PRODUCTION AND CONTROL 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management, 2020 General TOPLAM 1,804.317,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,804.317,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget for 2020 was adopted as the head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration. I submit to your votes that the head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2018 will be transferred to the final accounts of the central administration: those who agree... those who do not accept... those who don't. 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account Total grant 2,324,231,717,13 Budget Expenses 2,247,765,119,85 Canceled Fund 76,466,597,28 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 2.020.825,000.00 Collection 2.176. 614,175,73 Ret and Returns 244.417.69 Net Collection 2,176,369,758,04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2018 were adopted as the head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration.
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0518par0379	Mr. President, money is not spoken, money is voted; would that happen?
tbmm-2019-12-13sit06spe0516par0380	Tanal, I'm deaf to you today. I submit to your votes that the Institute of Standards of Turkey be transferred to the central management budget of 2020: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.22) Turkish STANDARDS INSTITUTE 1) Turkish Standards Institute Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 473,659.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 482,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Standards Institute was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Standards Institute's central management account for 2018 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Turkey's Standard Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2018 Total allowance 574.537.250.00 Budget Expenses 388.093.165.33 Cancelled Grant 186,444,084,67 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 388,543.000.00 Collection 407,378,652.06 Ret and Returns 1,917,454,65 Net Collection 405.461.197,41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Institute of Standards' final account for central management in 2018 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent and Brand Foundation be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.24) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 102.165,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 173.117,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Patent and Brand Agency was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Patent and Brand Foundation will be transferred into the chapters of 2018: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 640.067.050.00 Budget Expenses 624.002.736.55 Canceled Fund 16,064,313,45 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 205,514,000.00 Collection 222.560.736.00 Ret and Returns 710,533,62 Net Collection 221,850.202,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Patent and Marka Agency's final account of central management was adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Foundation be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.08) THE UNIVERSE OF TURKEY CLEARS AND TEKNOLOGIC RESEARCH 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 GENEL TOPLAM 3.511.062,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 3.509.662,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Foundation will be transferred into the chapters of 2018: those who accept... those who don't. 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 5.384,698,055,86 Budget Expenses 4,804.256.381.78 Cancelled Fund 580.441.674.08 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 96,319,525,40 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 3.265.696,000.00 Collection 4.576.881.790.61 Ret and Returns 485.610.46 Net Collection 4.576.396.180, 15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Agency were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Sciences be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 40.09) THE ACTION OF TURKEY 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2020 GENEL TOPLAM 18.551.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 18,351.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Academy of Sciences was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Academy of Sciences in 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2018 Central Management Final Account (A). CETVALI Total allowance is 16,767,500,00 Budget Expenses 14.363.028.05 Canceled Fund 2.404.471.95 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 16.575,000.00 Collection 15.503.456.48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Academy of Sciences were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Space Agency be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 20.20) 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 24.529.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 24,529000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Space Agency's central management budget was adopted for 2020. I wish him well. Congressmans, the fourth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Saturday (December 14th 2019) to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
