tbmm-2019-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 27th Year of the Third Legislature of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. I wish that our esteemed MPs, our honored guests, our beloved nation, the decisions that will be made by our great Assembly in the year of the new legislature, the laws that will be passed and the zeal that will be displayed, will bring blessings for our nation and our state, especially our Parliament. Today, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which we face under its roof, has established a vital mission by building the founding foundations of our new state, which emerged as a challenging form of its will incursion and illustration threat a hundred years ago. For this reason, every session, every legislature, is a chapter of our own will that finds its meaning in the spirit of the national struggle. There is also a very privileged issue that makes the year of the legislature we inaugurate different from the others. We will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on April 23, 2020, during this year of legislature. So I think it's also fortunate that under this roof those who understand the 100th anniversary of our nation's determination and determination for sovereignty are also fortunate, as it is all over the country. Of course, there's a different meaning to being under this roof on a meaningful anniversary like this. It also burdens us all with certain responsibilities. Although sometimes they are subjected to harsh and sometimes unfair criticism, our MPs work at a busy pace and under difficult circumstances. I believe that this work pace will increase, that we will spend a more adaptive and zealous year of life, that hearings and politics will be more productive in line with the meaning of the 100th year. Honored lawmakers, we are in a period of time when history has been reshaped, when geography has experienced deep rifts and subverts. Although this new situation involves many risks and threats, I truly believe it is the harbinger of a time of action for our nation and our country, which we have fought hard for its sovereignty. But to carry out this move, we are obliged to work harder than ever, to avoid vicious strife that has exhausted our strength, and to put an end to the conflict that aims at our unity. This is where the most important service for the establishment of this obligation is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Today the eyes of our nation are here. It is incumbent on addressing our country's pending problems, taking steps that directly concern the future of our nation, and fully implementing the new government system. This Parliament has a historical significance as well as a strong will to build the future, as well as it has its glorious and exemplary past. I believe that this importance is well understood by each of my fellow lawmakers. Turkey is an exemplary country not only because of its hard-working and noble nation, its exceptional position and its brilliant history, but also because of its radical democracy. Over a hundred and seventy years of elections have made Turkey a different and pioneer in the history of a hundred and forty-two years of Parliament and seventy-three years of multi-party political life. So we have to understand the value and meaning of our democracy better, and we have to evaluate what our democracy has added to us. But as we stand on the value and meaning of our democracy, I find it necessary to point out that the search for out-of-democracy, particularly for violence, is a political method, and in this way it involves a twisted understanding of legitimizing violence. No matter the motive, method and shape, violence is the most destructive enemy of our democracy and political institution. Any rhetoric intended for the spread and approval of violence within Turkey is an assassination and deserves to be eliminated. Any building that leans on violence, owes its existence to conflict, will eventually be defeated by the will of our nation. My dear friends, today is not only the eyes of our beloved nation, but of our brothers who live in many geographys of the world and whose hearts are pounding with Turkey. Just as the mosques of the Islamic world nine hundred and forty-eight years ago prayed for Sultan Alparslan a hundred years ago, as the national struggle that began under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was supported by many countries, Turkey and its righteous struggle today received a great deal of support. On various occasions and many times, from east to west, from north to south, we are proud of every success of Turkey, because as long as Turkey is strong, we are strong. These desires of determination and success are not in vain. With Turkey, the nation and the state, today as the world's loudest and most just voice, it exposes injustices on earth and points to the need to create a more habitable world. Last week, the U.N. speech, which our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, expressed effectively and rightly, in a large part of humanity, is good that there is Turkey. The U.N. speech, which makes it clear where Turkey stands in the world political scene. In addition to being President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as a member of this country, I thank him for this Vespian and historical speech, and as a nation, I express that we stand by his stand for justice with pride and always. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President's speech is essentially a translation of our nation's feelings and stance. Because our nation has not forgotten the friendship of the Indian Muslims who stood up for sovereignty a hundred years ago, and it is its duty to stand with Pakistan on the matter of Kashmir. Again, our nation, in Palestine, speaks with all its heart of the terror of the state of Israel, and stands beside its Palestinian brothers. Honorable lawmakers, we are at an important crossroads in the history of the world's great transformations. Under the circumstances, Turkey has decided to act only in accordance with its national interests, not in the artificial balances of a world that has changed, lost its reality, no longer exists. Therefore, in the Eastern Mediterranean, in the Middle East, and in all geography, our only measure is to act on the basis of the honor and interests of our nation, world peace and justice for all mankind. On the 100th anniversary of the foundation of our High Assembly, our nation expects that despite our differences in opinion and debate, we act in agreement, that we cooperate for the sake of justice of our national interests. I believe that every member of this glorious and Veteran Assembly, who understood its 100th year, will act according to that expectation. Our nation, who shapes geography and regulates history, has not yet finished its promise to the world and to mankind. On the contrary, our nation is in a position to grow and increase the influence of its word in the new world of turmoil and destruction. Those who try to be hostile to our nation and Turkey for this reason are condemned to lose their guise, their purpose and their basis, regardless. In this regard, the greatest evidence of our nation's courage and determination is the determination to fight and resist, which was born in Samsun on May 19, 1919. As we have expressed on many occasions, Turkey is no longer the name of a country and a geography. Turkey today is the name of a hope, a move, and a human trial that exceeds its borders, and Turkey today is not only our homeland, but our duty. With this feeling and thought, I wish the new year of life to be a blessing to our nation, our country, and all mankind, especially the Banis of our republic and the Commander of the National War, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his companions, who have worked for this nation and served under this lofty roof, all the sons of our country and our saints, with grace and thanks. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Members of parliament, to make the opening statement for the new year of legislature, Mr. President, they are now arriving at the General Assembly Hall. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY and MHP rows; standing up from the ranks of the GOOD PARTY]] Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-01sit01spe0002par0027	Mr. President, dear MPs, at the opening of the 27th year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Third Legislature, I salute you with my most heartfelt feelings, conversation, and respect. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] From the opening of our Grand National Assembly to the present day, under this roof, I honor all of our MPs who served our country with the belief of the superiority of national will. I ask for the full health and pleasure of our surviving MPs, God's mercy on those who have passed away. On behalf of my country and nation, I give thanks to the Commander-in-Chief of our Imperial War, the first President of our Parliament, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and to all who have worked so hard to bring our republic to this day. From Malazgirt to the founding of the Anatolian Seljuklu and Ottoman states, from the conquest of Istanbul to the Instigative War, and from our counterterrorism process, I am grateful to all our heroes, martyrs and veterans, who have fought to keep this land our home forever. I still say that the Lord should preserve every one of our security forces, who are fighting for their lives within and outside our borders with one flag, one country, one state, one state. I wish you success in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Qatar, Somalia, Lebanon, the Balkans, and many other places, to the security forces who proudly wave our flag. In the same way, as the soft power of our country, I would like to welcome the representatives of our NGOs who operate humanitarian aid and development under extremely difficult conditions in almost every corner of the world. This year is the 100th anniversary of the start of our Imperial War. This blessed journey, which began a century ago in Samsun, following the stops of Amasya, Erzurum, Sivas, and reached its first range in Ankara, evolved to a new phase, with the opening of the Grand National Assembly on April 23, 1920. The Great National Assembly, which personally dispatched and ruled our Battle of Salvation, has endured all the challenges of the era, crowning this struggle with victory. The young plant of the Republic of Turkey, replaced by a 600-year-old tree, will, hopefully, leave a century behind. During its 1,000-year existence in this land alone, our nation established three states as Seljuklu, Ottoman and Turkish Republic. When we look at our states, whose symbols are in the presidential forum, we see that we have a legacy of over 2,200 years. There is no other nation in the world with such deep, widespread and uninterrupted government experience. This continuity also means that we as a nation have never accepted captivity, we have always adhered to our freedom, our honor, our ideals. Turkey has its borders drawn with a ruler, its independence granted, its institutions established artificially, confusing it with the acquisteur of civilization, history, culture, aimless societies and states. I believe it is our duty to remind those who do not understand the ancient past and power of our country and our nation at every opportunity. A hundred years ago, the nation, which they were prepared to bury as if to call him a sick man, stood up and regained its freedom. In recent years, they have also tried to bring to their knees from PKK to DEAŞ to the DEA and to the end of the war with the anti-violence terrorist organization, and once again, they have shown their loyalty to its future and its future. In his struggle in the process, our Grand National Assembly of Turkey has also been honored with the title of "Gazillik" for the second time. On the night of July 15th, every bullet, every bomb thrown at this nation has driven us further and further away from the path of the construction of the great and powerful Turkey. Those who thought that they would deliver a nation by force, who began to say, "Don't be afraid, don't be afraid. They have surrendered themselves to the voice of my nation, who have worshipped God before sunrise. If we look at our future today with much more confidence and courage, it's because of the success of this struggle. On this occasion, I would like to invite everyone to show maximum precision in protecting the glory, honor, meaning of the 15th of July, the greatest democracy, rights and freedom victory of our nation in recent history. In the same way, we need to keep the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey above all else, the centre of national will. Taking over this parliament, which has introduced our country to democracy by providing the transition to multi-party political life, is also about taking over the national will and the state of law. For this reason, this Parliament has always been the first goal of all the coups, juntas, political and legal games that aim to protect the interests of a small minority rather than the superiority of national will. Praise be to God, every time the national will prevails, our coven is again in the name of the nation. While Turkey's Grand National Assembly ruled the Istliklal War. On July 15th, it was brave enough to stand up for the coupters, while its wife fought a rare challenge in history on behalf of our nation. Hopefully, in the future, the same struggle will continue with determination under this blessed roof. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We will not forget that we are responsible for this country and for the nation first, as we do politics and for the Parliament as we conduct their work. First, my people, I feel that no one who doesn't say my hometown first has the right to be under the roof of this blessed institution. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Turkey's greatest power is unity, unity, solidarity with its nation and its institutions that represent it. It's such a power that it's no match for money or technology or other possibilities. That's why we'll be one every chance we get, we'll be big, we'll be alive, we'll be brothers, we'll all be Turkey together. For this reason, we invite all parties who have distanced themselves from terrorism and violence to meet in the common denominator of national issues. We are prepared to discuss, discuss, and act together with all those who act with this feeling, all the matters of our country, our region, and the world. We have never shut our ears and our hearts to the voice of you MPs, our nation's representatives and theirs. Just as long as we don't put our political competition and differences ahead of our responsibilities to our country and our nation. Hopefully, the next legislature will go down in history as a time when we will demonstrate this exemplary cooperation under the roof of Congress. Dear lawmakers, while Turkey struggled to regain its feet in the Republic era, it also had to face many challenges such as coups, custody, laglessness, joblessness. Looking back, we see that in democracy, economics, infrastructure, industry, trade, education, health care, for a long time, our nation is subject to very low standards of service. Of course, there are many reasons for this situation. I think one of the most important reasons is for the political institution to focus its competition on service to the country. Since we saw this, we first started by changing the style and style of politics when we went before our nation about 18 years ago as suitors of the rule of Turkey. More importantly, not only have we seen the huge problems we're facing, but we've focused on the great potential behind it. Yes, we believed in our country, we believed in our nation, we believed in ourselves and our policies. First of all, we believed in the size of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's will to solve problems and clear the way for our country. We believed that by expanding our democracy, rights and freedoms for all segments, we could really build up freedom of faith and expression. In education, we believed that by reducing our children from class of 70 to 80 to class of 20, 30, we could get them out of there, prevent them from piling up to get into college. In health, we believed that we could save our citizens from being tortured at hospital doors, that we could provide human service to everyone. We believed we could build a sustainable system that could embrace anyone in our country with no exceptions in social security. We believed that we could be there for all the women, for the young, for the disabled, for the elderly, for the poor, for the needy. We believed that we could get land access to our country all over the country, through the air, through the iron, quickly, comfortable and securely. In energy, we believed that we could make our own sources of water, sun, wind, thermal and coal most effective. We believed that we could transform all of our settlements into modern urbanization, in accordance with our people's needs. We believed we could raise our industry to a level that could compete with the world. In the defense industry, we believed that we could free our country from external addiction. We believed that we could increase our exports categorically both by market and by number. We believed that we could increase our growth to the potential of our country and to the level that meets its goals. We believed that we could bring employment to a level where anyone could find a job where they could support themselves and their family. We believed that we could lead our nation from justice to security, to the services it longs for. We believed in foreign policy that we could bring the honor of our flag, the value of our passport and our money, where our country deserves its dignity. This is the belief that we've accomplished everything we've accomplished during our prime minister and presidency missions, along with you, along with the great Parliament. Since we believe that opposition is as important in democracies as it is in power, we see this success, without distinction, belongs to all MPs of the High Assembly. In democracy, in the economy, in infrastructure, in the event of the greatest breakthrough in the history of the republic, I give thanks to everyone who's worked with criticism, with a proposal. Turkey's long, difficult, time-by-time destination in democracy today is a common victory for all of us. Especially with the implementation of the presidential government system, we all have, God willing, a much brighter future ahead. The zeal of our parliament is the greatest proof that we can now solve our problems with the possibilities of democracy without any interference. I believe that by constantly updating the presidential government system that we left behind a year, we will continue to develop it and leave it as our greatest legacy to generations after us. Dear lawmakers, being the heir to an ancient civilization and the collection of history, as well as giving us great credit, are also burdened with heavy responsibilities. Today there are hundreds of millions of people in our region and in the world following us with their heart and eyes. Although Turkey seems far away from us today, not only its neighbours, but it has to deal with the issues of all the brothers and friends we've been with in the same historical and civilized department. As we can't turn our backs on Syria, we can't turn our backs on Palestine, Libya, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Arakana, Turkistan. As we cannot ignore Iraq, Iran, from Azerbaijan to Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan to Turkmenistan, from Kyrgyzistan to Crimea, we cannot remain large in any corner of Asia's geography. As it is our duty to protect the rights of our relatives in Cyprus, Greece, Bulgaria, we have the same obligation to look at all Balkan and European geography. Any development in the Mediterranean, the Aegean, the Black Sea is our direct concern. From Europe to the Caucasus, from Central Asia to South Asia, we have this understanding. As Turkey, in this vast geography, we only try to live, help, and if possible, to win together, to fight. None of our activities outside our borders are for invasion, impugnance, abuse. Whatever we're after for our own safety, peace and prosperity, we're fighting for all our friends nearby and far away. Someone may be going thousands of miles from their borders to exploit resources, to support terrorist organizations, murderers, dictators, if necessary. We look at our environment with an understanding of living, helping, and winning together, if possible. There is a price to pay for this human-centered understanding. No matter what the price we pay, we have never given up this human stance that separates the Turkish nation from the others, we will not give up. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, there are about 5 million foreigners from various countries in our country today. In fact, the vast majority of the Anatolian population has been made up of people who have flocked almost uninterruptedly to save their lives and their future over the past 150 years. Moreover, this orientation has been carried out recently. 30 years ago, when hundreds of thousands of our descendants came to our borders from Bulgaria, it never crossed our minds to close the doors and leave them in the grip of persecution. Then, when hundreds of thousands of Kurdish brothers in Iraq sought refuge in our country to escape the bombs that fell on them, we never thought to close the borders again. From Central Asia, from Turk, from Caucasus, from the Balkans, from North Africa, we have always embraced our friends, our descendants. Finally, when our Syrian brothers were oppressed by the regime and terrorist organizations, we opened the doors to our hearts and our borders again. We are aware of, of course, the economic, social and cultural trials caused by 3 million,650,000 of our guests who are still living within our borders because the Syrian crisis is growing. We also know that there is no other country besides Turkey who can shoulder such a burden and manage it for so long. However, we have no idea of continuing to house millions of refugees on our territory. These people we've been hosting in our country for about eight years already have homes, dorms, homes. It's our job to create a safe climate where asylum seekers can live their lives in their own country as soon as possible. We've called on the international community so far. For example, four years ago, at the G20 Summit in Antalya, I offered to establish a safe zone in Syria for all the leaders attending the meeting and to accommodate refugees on their territory. As a matter of fact, everyone welcomes this project, and unfortunately, no country has put its finger on concrete steps. At the same time, the threat of Syrian terrorism to our country has now reached unbearable proportions. This forced us to carry out the task of making Syria safe for both our country and its refugees. With that understanding, we brought to life the Firat Shield and Operation Olive Branch. In the process of Astana with Russia and Iran in Idlib, we have avoided a major human drama; it is not easy; it is a city with a population of 4 million, and the support we give to those who are persecuted here is a very, very human and historic situation. The number of Syrian asylum seekers back to the places we've secured so far has reached 360,000, mainly, you know, Cerablus. We also work closely with all parties to control the fragile situation in Idlib, where nearly 4 million people live. We also experienced a long and challenging process of the region, which we refer to as the eastern part of the frigate. And that's where we are today, at the end of all this development. Dear lawmakers, I would like to share the matter with you once again, in person, with our nation, our nation listening to us on the screen, with the whole world: Turkey favours the territorial integrity of Syria, the political and administrative union of the Syrian people. The only reason we exist in Syria is because the threat of terrorism to our borders has also become a barrier to the return of the Syrians in our country. We are never in favor of war, conflict, bloodshed, death, suffering; on the contrary, we want a peaceful, peaceful, prosperous future for all Syrian people with our own and Arab, Kurdish, Turkishmen, Suryani, Ezidi, Christians, and Syria. In response, someone is trying to bring us to our knees by putting the burden of terror and asylum seekers on our country's shoulders. I ask you: Is Turkey weak enough to accept such an imposition, such a blackmail, such a vile game? [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Is Turkey a rootless country to be an extra for scripts written on desks, as it has been done to some deviant states? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Is Turkey an unclaimed country that will throw away all the values it has experienced from its career in one fell swoop, and deliver its future into the hands of others? If anyone thinks that, I'm sorry, but he doesn't know our people, and he doesn't know us. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I'm telling you clearly, we don't consent to this imposition, this scenario. As a nation, we'll give out if we have to, but we certainly won't compromise our authority and our dignity. This is exactly what we're dealing with about Syria. Dear lawmakers, we have told Turkey that the end of this game has come, for the record, to the faces of those who have been distracting it for years about the dissolution of the terrorist organization and the security of Syrian territory for refugees. With our allies, we have tried every way to solve the tribulation next to our borders, and we've been very patient, and we've expressed our determination over and over again. The Firat Shield and Operation Olive Branch are a concrete manifestation of our determination in this regard. Unfortunately, with this method, especially east of the Firat, we have not been able to achieve almost any of the results we desire. Turkey no longer has a single day to lose on this subject. At this point, we have no choice but to continue on our own course. We plan to accommodate 2 million people, including Menbic, in a secure area 30km deep, to the border with Iraq, with a million in the new settlements. Our plans are ready, our projects are ready, and I've shared them with the heads of state, with the prime ministers, all in bilateral negotiations with the United Nations General Assembly. With the support of the international community, we will place 1 million people in 140 villages with 5,000 populations and 50 towns with 30,000 populations. We've done preliminary studies on villages and counties to build, we've identified locations, we've raised costs. We'll be conducting healing studies in other areas. As soon as we free the region from the invasion of the terrorist organization, hopefully, we'll begin immediately with support from the international community. In this regard, we will take this step in the event of an international donor meeting. The success of our country's survival and the success of our fight against terrorist organizations, and we are forced to take this step to bring our Syrian guests home with a heart to restore peace. Of course, by the way, we didn't forget that four or five years ago, when bombs and rockets were raining in our borders, we were denied air defense. In order to avoid threats, we made our own solutions by going to buy the S400 system. Despite NATO's support for this statement of ours, there is no rational explanation for the hostile attitude toward our country based on an excuse. All these experiences give us an idea of the photograph we're going to face after the step we're taking. Turkey will not abandon its own security and the future of its brothers to the pleasure of the forces with an account in the region. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We'll push their ability to work together to the end, but if that's not possible, we'll open our own way, as we've just begun to open it. No doubt our work will not be easy, but I have no doubt that thanks to God's help, the support of our nation, the prayer of the oppressed, the heroism of our security forces, we will come out of this struggle without doubt. (EC PARTY and OPERATOR) I believe that our state, our government, our security forces will take part in this process with all the MPs and groups of our Turkish Grand National Assembly. Precious lawmakers, Turkey has other issues to look for solutions in unity and unity, especially in the economy, as well as in domestic and external security issues. Today's Turkey, as in other areas, is not the Turkey of 2000 years ago in the economy. From the macro-economic outlook to the infrastructure, we've jumped the age in every area. Thus, Turkey rose to a higher category in the developing group of countries. However, we see that our country has also been focused on globally speculative attacks, especially in recent years. With the devastating consequences of the trade wars and the rise of the problems within the European Union, the effects of these attacks have increased further. Despite everything, I would like to stress that we have shown a firm and strong stance. For example, attacks that target our financial system from August of last year are not events that have occurred within the economy's own dynamics; in the process, there have been times in which we have been faced with orders to purchase over 10 billion dollars per night, much more than the current currency in our country. The financial fluctuation that began with the rise in the exchange rate has caused many chain effects from interest rates to inflation, from growth to negativeness to increased unemployment. After the crisis in August, our economic administration took many measures against such threats, and over time, it developed them and successfully applied them. First of all, the exchange rate, the first foot of the wave of attack, has been placed in a relatively stable line. Then steps have been taken to gradually bring down interest, which has been increased in proportion to the facts of our country's economy. Thus, Turkey's credit risk rating, separated from developing economies in a positive direction, has begun to improve. Our banking system maintains its strong structure and is at a level that can easily manage risks. According to the end of the previous year, interest has dropped 10 points on commercial loans, 15 points on mortgages, 13 points on need loans. As interest starts to fall, markets, especially the dwelling, have seen a revival. Inflation, TÜFE is down from 25 per cent to 15 per cent, and ÜFE is down from 45 per cent to 13.5 per cent. In the coming days, with the new data being released, I believe inflation will be reduced to a single digit again. With inflation also prone to decline, growth began to follow a positive course again. Our industrial production increased by 4.3 per cent in July compared to the previous month. Our exports set a new record every month, crossing $170 billion year-on-year. Where did we come from? We've come from $36 billion and $36 billion in exports now $170 billion and it's going to go up even more. We're having a very productive and profitable season in tourism. We'll probably break the whole tourist record this year. Our tourism revenues increased by 12 percent last year, this year will increase by 10 percent, and yes, we'll get 50 million tourists here, hopefully. While international investments are shrinking around the world, our country remains in a pretty good position on this issue. Our Central Bank's foreign currency reserves, which had been down for a long time, rose again to over 100 billion dollars. When I was Prime Minister, remember, he had reached $136 billion. So we're used to that number, and we're going to get those numbers again. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) It's now reached a $103 billion level. This is the first time in our history that we've moved to $4.4 billion plus in the balance of current transactions, which is considered the biggest weakness of our country's economy. Almost all economic indicators point to positive improvements for the coming term. These developments move international organisations, such as the OECD, the IMF, to constantly revisit our country's growth projections in a positive way. Turkey has managed to survive in the economy, as in other areas. On this occasion, we closed the IMF book in May 2013 so that it would not be reopened, rather than be economical, to rule countries behind the scenes with political criteria. When we arrived in office, the debt to the IMF was $23.5 billion, and we reset it in May 2013. The events we've had in recent years, of course, do not make us forget the fact that the economy is a dynamic field, that it must be fed on constant reforms, that only structural transformations can achieve goals. We're successfully conducting the balancing and regrowing process, never giving in to fiscal discipline. Despite all the incidents we've experienced today, the proportion of our budget deficit and our debt supply to our national income is at a very, very good level, according to European Union standards. 2023, we are determined to maintain new strategies and reforms in line with our goals. By following our road map in the 11th Development Plan, adopted by our parliament, we will make the best use of the next four years without elections. We will continue to work without rest until we make our country one of the 10 largest economies in the world. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, as it is known, last week I made a comprehensive assessment of world affairs around the theme of justice at the General Assembly of the United Nations. While the United Nations system defends justice in all areas, especially the United Nations system, we cannot agree to remain behind in our own country. For that, we completed preparations for the first package of the Judicial Reform Strategy Document, which we shared with our public in April. I think it's important to discuss and accept such an important issue with the broadest possible settlement in the House. For this reason, the first reform package was presented to the evaluation of all our MPs. More likely, this package will follow new ones, including issues aimed at expanding rights and freedoms. I hope that these reform packages will be discussed with a constructive understanding, both in commissions and in the General Assembly. As I pointed out at the opening of the jurisprudence year, law is different, justice is different. The legislature's task is to make the ideal legal arrangements to ensure the facility of justice. As we seek justice for ourselves and for all mankind, we must continue to develop the laws that make up the framework for it. According to our constitution, the head of state is also responsible for running it according to our new management system, and we are concerned about taking steps within the framework of judicial reform along with all of our MPs. Legislative, executive, and the independence of the judiciary within themselves does not prevent the head of the state from working together for specific purposes under the leadership of the president. Of course, the President is not going to take the place of lawmakers, make laws, take judges' place and rule.
tbmm-2019-10-01sit01spe0003par0108	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2019-10-01sit01spe0002par0109	Basically, the separation of forces means that the forces that constitute the essence of democracy are not engaged in conflict, but in a reasonable balance to carry out their activities in line with the same goals. With that understanding, we strive to ensure that all of our institutions work in harmony in accordance with the Constitutional mandate. Those who engage in promises and actions to disrupt this balance for the sake of ideological obsessions and daily political interests should know that they have harmed the country and the state, not us. I believe that what our nation expects of us is that we work in harmony. To this day, I have rejected every means except the rule of the nation's will, and I have struggled against every attempt in the opposite direction. As a politician and a statesman to whom custody puts him in prison, I didn't even think of any other way, the method. We will continue to sing to our nation and to the world, not behind closed doors, but on the squares, on the platforms, on the screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, the 5.8 magnitude earthquake in Istanbul last week has reminded us once again of the danger we face. Anatolian geography is a place that has suffered destruction and suffering, shaken by severe earthquakes for thousands of years. 70 per cent of our country is said to be an earthquake zone of one, or two degrees. Three-quarters of our population and industrial facilities are located in the first and second-degree earthquake zones. In recent years, images of earthquakes that have caused serious destruction, loss of life in our cities of Istanbul, Seipeli, Yalova, Sakarya, Düzce and Bolu are all alive in our memories. We lost 18,373 lives in the August 17, 1999 Lake Clutch and November 12, 1999, according to the 2010 Parliamentary Research Commission's figures. Likewise, we remember the earthquakes in Van in 2011, in Bingol in 2003, in Adana in 1998, in Erzincan in 1992, in Erzurum in 1983, in 1976, in Erzuran in 1976, in lice in 1975, again in Bingöl in 1971, in Gediz in 1970, in the last 50 years. In these earthquakes, tens of thousands of people have died and hundreds of thousands have been injured. You know, a saying, not an earthquake, but a building kills. The truth, once again, has struck us in the face. Construction activities in Turkey have, unfortunately, been carried out for many years, not only aesthetics and other elements, but also the disaster factor without supervision. We took this matter into our own hands after we came to the government. For the first time in our country, we started building a stockpile of structures based on a systematic and widespread earthquake. So far, through the TOKI, we have completed 850,000 secure dwellings of nearly 4 million of our citizens and delivered them to their owners. Not only that, we entered a process that aims to transform 6.7 million structures across the country, along with our municipalities. So far, we've started the transformation of 1,11,000 structures, and we've finished a significant portion. In addition, in all areas related to the construction process, from project to material and building control, we have upgraded standards according to the earthquake, and improved them. So, with what the private sector has done, we've made a transformation that allows 35 million of our citizens to live in safe houses. Now we have about 1.5 million emergency transformations ahead of us. We plan to build 300,000 homes each year as a state and private sector, and in five years we plan to renovate the structures that need to be transformed immediately. Urban transformation projects must be carried out quickly, well-placed and on the basis of volunteering. On the other hand, we've completely changed the disaster management system, which has been run by many different institutions, and unfortunately caused by a lack of coordination, to waste resources. In our country today, all disaster work from earthquakes to floods, from fires to riots has been dispatched and managed by AFAD, the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management Administration, which we established in 2009. It is also the responsibility of the institution to provide temporary housing services for refugees and to intervene in disasters outside our borders. With a system that governs both crisis and risk management, we are preparing for disasters in the entire province of 81. The aid and intervention units of the NGO are co-ordinated by this institution, particularly the Red Moon. On the one hand, we've created a strong institutional infrastructure for building settlements that have been cleared of disaster risks, but also for pre-fact awareness and post-fact aid work. Although it is a fact that we have yet to reach the level we want, today is a fact that Turkey is more prepared for disasters than it was 17 years ago. Last week's earthquake has shown us that we need to accelerate and promote our work in this direction. We will continue to do our part with determination. We believe that life-threatening issues such as earthquakes are political and need to be discussed, discussed, studied. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Every other attitude and statement in the opposite direction will do no one any good except to harm our country. I wish my Lord to preserve our country from all kinds of disasters. [[AK PARTY rankings (also known as "Amin.")]] With these feelings, once again, I wish the 27th Year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Third Legislature, to the best of our country, our nation, all of our MPs. I wish you all the success of the Parliament's work. I salute you all with love. Peace be with you.
tbmm-2019-10-01sit01spe0004par0135	[[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have you read and vote on. Here you go. At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors 1/10/2019 on Tuesday (now), the following proposals have been approved by the General Assembly. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. According to Article 104 of the Constitution, the President has been advised that no other work should be discussed after the opening of the 27th Year of the Third Legislation of the Turkish Parliament. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the recommendation of the Council of Counsel has been accepted. Since today's decision is not on our agenda, it is Wednesday (October 2nd, 2019) that we discuss business in order on our agenda. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
