tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Istanbul MP Nazır Jhangir Islam, who wants to mention Aliya Izetbegovic's 16th anniversary of his death. Here you go, Islam.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, my dear friends, there are those who are called Izzetbegovic, who we have blessed with the anniversary of the 16th death. I personally object to that. In fact, you will find no place for kings in the world of the late Izetbegovic, who cares about constant rights, justice, critical thinking and objection. For example, these objectors express their views on kings in their language: ▪ The objectors claim that they don't accept that they owe their livelihoods to the ruler, but they also claim to feed the ruler themselves. This is clearly the legitimacy of the late Izetbegovic. My dear friends, what is being opposed here, of course, is the direct disregard for human rights and the lack of authority other than God. We're investigating that it's all part of the human conquest, the Islamic faith, and the Muslim identity. In the former Yugoslavia, as you know, the late Izetbegovic was tried by the authoritarian former Yugoslavia for trying to establish an Islamic order with his 12 friends. When he was brought to court, he was able to express that he did not like authority to the face of the court committee, which had already been decided in advance, but that he could only obey because of necessity, but that Islam was all that was good for him, truth and all that could be done for him. My dear friends, Izetbegovic, we also remember his stance during the war, so even during the time of the siege of Sarajevo, the bombings and mass killings, he clearly did not interrupt the broadcasting of the Chetniks, the televisions, the radios, that we might call the Serbian fascists. In fact, it was impossible to see that kind of extraordinary state anywhere in the world. On this application, he also received a review from his immediate surroundings, but he has always argued that if we discuss the truth, we can find the truth and the truth. Finally he was right, when the war was over, those who broadcast against the Bosnian resistance with black propaganda had to apologize. Again, there was an unpleasant incident at that time. At the time of the rapes, the massacres, two priests were murdered as a reactionary, individual murder. He never took refuge behind the reflex, immediately appeared on television, and in the midst of the war, he was able to call out to his own people: "If we are also wrongdoers, there is no point in fighting persecution. We're dealing with villains, the Chetniks, who are going to be our teachers? No, we'll follow the book under any circumstances. My dear friends, the late Izetbegovic, again, did not respond to any acts of terror, even in the most cramped moments of Sarajevo, and warned his own people that the great goals could never be achieved through inferior means. Once again, I remember Izetbegovic with mercy, dear friends. I hereby salute the High Council. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0003par0020	The second statement outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Mustafa Demir Bey who asked for a statement on the return of foreigners to their homeland. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we live together with the important consequences of globalization, which we have not dropped from our language as the fashion rhetoric of the last few years. One of these results is migrating. And as a nation, We have been with those who were oppressed, and those who were oppressed, and those who needed [others], and [also] we will continue to be with them. Migration isn't just our country's problem, it's become a common and important problem for the whole world. Destabilisation, revenue distribution, access to basic life resources, such as terrorism, conflicts, energy needs, has revealed extreme migration waves. No doubt terror is the most important cause of the migration that concerns us. Only about 2 million people were expelled from their homes during the Syrian civil war by PKK/YPG terror. When we look at it, all terrorist organizations, PKK/YPG, DEAŞ, are fed from the same source, and we can easily see that they are the product of the same factory. Dear MPs, Mr. President has announced in his historic speech at the United Nations meeting on September 24th that we will clear the north of Syria from terrorists and establish a safe zone. Operation Peace Fountain, which was launched on October 9th, began to yield results from the extraordinary success of our heroic army, including Ankara and Sochi Covenant. We have never calculated the natural resources, sweat, labor and blood of any society in this operation. It was one of our main goals that the real owners of this land returned to their homeland, where they continued to live in peace and security. Honourable MPs have been reduced to 6,700,000 Syrian refugees due to the civil war in Syria. Since the beginning of the civil war in Syria in 2011, 3 million,674,000 Syrians have taken refuge in our country. We have not been indifferent to refugee dramas, which have come up with various excuses, such as the European countries. It is our Istanbul, where foreigners who have come to our country are determined to settle heavily; a total of 1,99,000 foreigners live in Istanbul. In Istanbul, the number of Syrians currently under temporary protection is about 550. Deportation has been launched on those who are citizens of the other country and do not provide the necessary conditions for those who have been found to be indifferent in Istanbul. The total number of irregular immigrants caught in Istanbul in 2019 is about 80,000. They were taken from the send-back centre to be sent back to their country, and about 75,000 were sent back to their home country. In addition, about 72,000 immigrants from Istanbul, who are registered in other cities, have been sent back to their headquarters, where they are registered. With the number of immigrants to be deported increasing, our return centre, which was only 1,740 in 2014, has now reached 20,000. This is the total capacity of all European Union member states. We have three return centres in Istanbul. In addition, Albania's village has begun its efforts to build a new send-back centre in an area of 150,000 square metres. Our esteemed lawmakers, the Department of Interior's Document for Unorganized Migration Strategy and the National Action Plan were drafted in 2015. All responsibility for international protection in the field has been met by the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0005par0035	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0004par0036	And the information sharing between 22 public institutions and the integrated IT system was established. In our country, the schooling rate for Syrian immigrant children is 96.3%. In Europe, it is only 61 per cent of the children of foreigners. Dear lawmakers, we have to make the quick and correct decision regarding irregular migration. That's why all of our institutions and organizations are acting together. So far, we've been trying to solve this problem through the basic values of humanity. We will proceed without compromise from this primitive posture. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly, our General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0006par0040	The third non-responsive statement is from Ankara MP Mustafa Destictori, who asked for a statement on the 13-point agreement between the United States and Turkey on the ongoing Operation Peace Fountain in northeast Syria. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0007par0043	My dear President, dear MPs, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. Once again, I ask God's mercy to our fallen Mehmets in the Battle of the Peace Fountain and in the fight against terrorism. I seek immediate healing for our wounded veterans, and I wish our heroic security forces the best of all. Of course, Turkey has organized strong operations to eliminate terror inland and outside, the last of which is Operation Peace Fountain. We have made it very clear from the beginning that we both support and support the need for this action. All but the political separatists of our Veteran Assembly have already supported this action, giving the thesis yes. Again, after agreements with the United States and Russia, I personally want to express that the continuation of this union is very important for our country, for our nation, and for our future. Foreign policy, as we all know, is above politics and is a national policy. So I'm going to say that we personally don't find it right if it's turned into an internal political material by whomever it is. I would like to say from here, especially in terms of action and the gain of future processes, that it is also very important for you not to wear out our government, those who run the government, those who run the operation, to have a strong hand against the outside. Of course, talks with the two countries have revealed that the ambitions of those who waged a power of attorney war through terrorist organizations and dreamed of redoing the region's map have remained with this action, and the hall of terror has been destroyed. In this region, Turkey has once again become clear that politics cannot be produced despite the fact that it can't be produced. The threat of sanctions and embargos against our country has been proved to be of no use. The cradle of so-called democracy has exploded in the hands of propagandist communication traps based on slander of the country's so-called free media, aimed at guiding their own public opinion. But against that, we've failed, and we haven't been able to fully explain our rightful cause as Turkey. Everyone has seen and had to accept the fact of a strong Turkey on the field and at the table. Negotiations with the United States and Russia are a sign of this. While terrorist organizations have been shielding civilians, our hero Mehmet-duk has been a shield for civilians, unfortunately, we've had a hard time telling even that, and the perception of action against Kurds has become widespread in the world. However, the purpose of the operation is purely aimed at terror and terrorism. Turkey, which advocates right and law for those who see democracy too much and authoritarian regimes, has been revealed to its own people. The island of compassion, which embraces millions of innocents and victims, has developed the perception of humanity's refuge in Turkey. The European Union, which could not agree on its own, has received both military and political lessons from Turkey, which it holds at the door; it has been exposed after the US and Russia agreement. NATO again failed to stand by its self-defense member to protect its borders. It has been explained from the mouth of Trump, who, instead of a strategic partner, has no more vision of the United States than of the watchdog of oil. Turkey and Russia have confirmed in front of the world the capacity to compromise, co-operate and solve problems as two leading countries in the region. By the way, Iran is also in the category of those who fail the class. Of course, these deals have flaws, flaws. For example, what will be the future of Solomon's Shah Temple? This has not been made clear.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0008par0053	Here, wrap it up, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0007par0054	Another issue: To us, a full disclosure of the return of asylum seekers is not seen here. The placement of asylum seekers in the safe zone is as important to us as the removal of terror. Idlib: Are Russia and Syria especially sensitive to civilians? Besides, what will be the fate of the members of the Syrian national army there? As the YPGs withdrew, their heavy weapons were cleared in negotiations with the United States, but we could not see that clarity in the agreement reached by Russia. The agreement related to the strategy of Ayn al-Arab and Kamişlı also carries long-term, serious risks because there is no clarity about the region's Russian and Syrian regime and its future after wearing PYD/YPG members' Syrian Army uniforms. So it seems that our targeting... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0008par0057	Pack it up, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0007par0058	I'm finishing, yes. Our targets appear to be limited to 120km long and 30km deep while they are 30km deep. Other regions are entrusted to the forces of Russia and the Syrian regime. Hopefully, the threat of terrorism in the future will not continue to exist, but will again be transformed into a safe zone for Syrian refugees within our country. That's our expectation and wish. Once again, he repeats our support for action and these processes, remembers our martyrs with mercy, and I wish our veterans a speedy recovery. And I thank you, thank you, exist. I wish you good work.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0009par0062	Congressmans, I will now promise the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system to their place for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0010par0066	Mr. President, the measures taken in our region due to Operation Peace Fountain have hampered our farmers and tradesmen in Ceylanpınar, Akchakale, Suruç and Nusaybin, by authorities, to attract our people to more secure locations. Our border counties that are unable to do business during this process have only one demand: that loan debts to all banks, Agriculture Loan Cooperatives and trade rooms, all debts to state institutions, checks and bonds are postponed by an unconditional year. I call on all government officials, the ministers, to begin the necessary work on this matter. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0011par0070	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0012par0072	Mr. President, thank you. According to official data, the youth unemployment rate is 27.1 per cent -- almost 1 out of 3 young people are unemployed, while the young people with jobs are poor. We're dealing with a power that can't create work and food, and over the years, it's a government that creates graduates who owe money. The number of college graduates who failed to pay off their student loans was 5 million. Hasbelkader's got a job and the new alumni' salaries are being impounded. So far, 217,000 young people are in foreclosure. We've called on power here many times to erase student loan debt. Our proposals for the law are rejected, not processed. You're listening to our proposals for a solution to this bleeding wound. Our young people are worth more to us in one night than the corporate allies whose tax debts have been wiped out.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0013par0075	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0014par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey, which reversed the plays played in the region with Operation Peace Fountain, has also achieved a historic success in Sochi, with the strong leadership and firm stance of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. This ten-point agreement with Russia after the United States failed the terrorist generation project, which intends to close all the southern borders of Turkey, resulting in Turkey's international acceptance of security concerns. Turkey has shown its game-breaker and quarterback power both to the region and to the world. It's true, it's taken our country to the Giant League. Now, whether it's regional or global, Turkey will always be at that table, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0015par0081	Mr. Moisture...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0016par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. With the transition of the Southern Environment Road to the province of the Army, the transition here has accelerated, and traffic density has moved to Giresun. Traffic jams and confusion continue to increase every day in the province of Giresun, where the city and transit crossing meet. Therefore, as opposition, we want the construction of Giresun's passage to the South Environment Road Army to begin with. Now, as the government has promised to give up the day-saving projects, Giresun must immediately begin the South Environment Road Project. We follow this project on behalf of all the Giresunians. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0017par0086	Mr. Yasar...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0018par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. On February 20th, we formed the Animal Rights Research Commission with a motion by five parties in parliament as partners. Our commission began its work on May 8th. This week, with our members of the Commission, we submitted our report to the Speaker. We listened to all sides of the matter in great harmony and precision, and that's how our report was shaped, by accepting animal rights as a matter of extravaganza. We've had a fine example of animal rights unification with fellow lawmakers from all parties represented in parliament. We also discussed this with many animal lovers, naturalist associations, NGOs, activists and professors of relevant departments. We've taken advantage of the comparative legal texts of many countries, and our text is as broad as possible...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0017par0091	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0019par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country and in Düzce, corn producers have been having major problems in recent years. The price increases in corn are insufficient in terms of increased input costs. Prices in cities with no storage and drying facilities, such as Düzce, are 15-20 cents further than cities in TMO. Düzle is a production centre with no storage and drying facilities, although corn produces more than 50,000 tons, over 210,000 tonnes. Corn prices, announced by the government as $1.15 at the beginning of the season, are now down to 75 cents in corn. Even in Sakarya, 70km away, the price is 90 cents, and the price is 15p less since TMO has no facility in Düzce. The Düzceli corn producer of the Ministry of Agriculture expects TMO to immediately build a storage facility for Düzce. The storage facility...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0020par0097	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0021par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the 23rd anniversary of the province of Osmaniye. Our Osmaniye is a city of castles and poets, home to many civilizations with its long-standing history, cultural heritage, rich natural beauty and fertile lands. On 24 October 1996, Osmaniye was the 80th province of the Republic of Turkey by law published in the Official Gazette. In twenty-three years, our university has shown a great deal of improvement and change in all areas, with improved industrial areas, with high-profile public buildings, infrastructure studies. In particular, it contributes even more to the country's economy every year in economics. I give thanks to all those who have worked hard in the province of Osmaniye. I express my pride in serving this ancient city, Gibraltar, as the Ottoman MP, celebrating the 23rd anniversary of the province of Osmaniye, offering my respect and love to my Ottoman citizens.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0022par0102	Mr. Blackduman...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0023par0104	Take a good look at this photo. The innocent-looking child you see in this photograph is the look of the children who were expelled from the police force with the KHK, who were later killed in carrying out their military duties, who were soon considered terrorists, who were patriotic enough to be considered martyrs, who were described as being persecuted by Burak Zechariah Altunok. This is a picture of injustice and morality that destroys people's lives at the risk of staying in power. If Zechariah Altınok wasn't a martyr, would you continue to call him a terrorist? To those who have seen this photograph and have not felt guilty, what do we do? I want to remind you that you will answer in front of God, even though it is not in front of history. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0022par0106	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0024par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. University students who wanted to cross the street on the way to Niğde-Bor were killed by a car crash at Fatma Gul Long and Destiny Karaca. May God have mercy on the young, and my condolences to their grieving families. On this route, college students and citizens have been killed before. I've submitted a motion to the Minister of the period to build crosswalks and vehicles along the Niğde-Bor road. The minister said there was nothing wrong with the accident detection reports. After the last accident, the governorate announced in September 738 that the first 18 days of October, 396 drivers were sentenced to speeding violations. The problem doesn't end with a ticket. Overpasses must be made in different areas for pedestrians and vehicle crossings on the road. The accident site and the university must be arranged for vehicle crossings at Bor TOKI and Altunhisar Crossroads and the Kayseri Road Aktaş Crossroad.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0025par0112	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0026par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. The depletion of waste in recycling and recycling process leads to significant loss of resources both material and energy. As the world's population and living standards grow, there is an inevitable increase in consumption, and this situation has increased the pressure on our natural resources, disrupting the balance of the world, and our limited resources are unable to reach increasing needs. In this sense, zero waste, zero loss, is certain to give us great advantages because efficiency increases, clean environment is maintained, waste is prevented, costs are reduced, environmental risks decrease, sensitive consumers are multiplied; environmental behavior increases our dignity in national and international circles. The environment is not an inheritance from our ancestors, but a trust from our future generations.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0027par0117	Mr. Keven...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0028par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to certain rights offered by our government, our martyr relatives and veterans have various problems and demands and are expected to be dealt with immediately. Two-person public employment support for the relatives of our martyrs should be increased in a way that will not cause problems among the children. Veterans should have two people to support their employment. Our veterans should be given the right to retire on the day of 3000 bonuses. Health rights of relatives and veterans must be at the level of rights offered to lawmakers. The first-degree relatives of our martyrs must be assigned free housing with the hands of the public. All fellow martyrs and veterans must be given green passports. All of our veterans should be given the right to a vehicle without a WTV. Our veterans, who have been determined that physical and psychological effects can last for many years, should be immediately recognized as. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have 20,000 non-Vazi citizens waiting for the immediate title of veteran. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0029par0124	Mr. Osmanakaoğlu...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0030par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Our country has shown its determination to fight terrorism on the table over the past week, as it has fought against PKK/YPG and other terrorist organizations. The Republic of Turkey, which moves with a common national spirit, is moving with solid steps to achieve its true goals and high ideals, has used its ability to create solutions to stop the oppressed blood spilled in its geography. The Turkish Republic's tuition was mixed with the blood of martyrs, and the Turkish nation's state was undivisable, and it was ruled on this roof ninety-six years ago. Therefore, we declare that we are with you until the end of our state, which is under a non-negotiable decree, and that we are against those who do not consider the PKK and the YPG as a terrorist organization until the end.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0029par0128	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0031par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. On October 24, 1996, the 4200th Law, which was published in the Official Gazette, and the 80th province of our Republic of Turkey, Osmaniye. Under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, since 2002, we have been determined to work day and night to make education, health, infrastructure, agriculture and animalism environmental, forest and RDESS projects, energy industry, two organised industrial areas and our university, Kadirli, Daziçi, Garden, Sumbas, Hasanbeyli and Earthkale a model for all Turkey. Thousands of years of history, traditional folk culture, with all kinds of natural beauty, and all kinds of tourist diversity among the rare provinces of our country, the Ottoman Empire, which gave us the honor of celebrating the 23rd year of our province in the Veteran Assembly, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0029par0132	Prime Minister...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0032par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Instead of supporting his farmer, the government, which made its duty to become a fugitive, announced agricultural support as the year ended. Animalism has been ignored again; fertilizer support only exists in wheat, barley, rye, triticale and oatmeal, and other products do not. The prims also have very little support for wheat, barley, rye, and oatmeal producers from the previous year. The gas support covers about 10 percent of the farmer's gas costs. According to the farmer's input costs, these supports are very low. The increase in energy used in diesel, fertilizer, medicine, irrigation is nearly 50 percent. The farmer's been ignored again, done whatever it takes to make it impossible. The farmer has no chance of surviving under these conditions. Import doors open wide; this is betrayal of country agriculture and farmers.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0029par0137	Mr. Sullu...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0033par0139	500 workers who have not been paid in Eskişehir province for five months have been attacked by police in the press this morning following a two-day hunger strike; 29 of our workers are being detained while USIC METAL-İSK Union President Adnan Serdaroglu and our workers are in hospitals. This intervention on our workers seeking their rights is unacceptable. Companies seized by the TMSF in 2009 and damaged by its wrong management were returned to the Oliveson Holdings in June with a burden of debt. To get back to work, the workers would like to announce their voices to Mr. President and TMSF: you have giant factories, you have conglomerates. Please take 5-10 unemployed people with you. Mr. President and TMSF, who have called out to the industrialists to create jobs, should do what is necessary to repair the victims of workers. We, the Republican People's Party, will continue to stand by you until the end of the righteous struggle of the workers.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0029par0142	Mr. Inspiration, I promise you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0034par0144	As of today, Erzincan Tercan, 54 of our farmers have been embezzled by a bank employee at the Bank of Agriculture, unfortunately, by a fake signature, and the bank employee embezzles the bank's money. The concerned employee was sent to another branch, despite such an accusation, and then served six months in prison today as a result of the prosecution's investigation. Now all the signatures have been sent to a criminal investigation. Look, our farmers have been executed for fraud by a bank employee, and there are people who have lost their lives. The painting is getting darker. On the matter of the Tercan Public Prosecutor's Office... I'd like to thank our prosecutor here who's doing his duty. So far, we've learned that the Agriculture Bank has not been involved, and we're sorry. I called the General Manager today. General Director Hussein Aydın said he was just informed of the issue, said he would never allow the farmers to be victimized, but at the point we're here, there's a victim. We ask the General Director and the inspectors he will send to address this victim, and we ask that the problem be resolved as soon as possible, and that the victims of our concerned farmers...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0029par0146	Mr. Özyrek...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0035par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Sivasspor, a very important brand of our Sivasspor, rose from the league to its 2nd place, with a very good start in the Super League, but after the match of Rizespor and Alanyaspor, we lost valuable points after the match against Sivasspor-Galatasaray again. Our Sivasspor, and the Sivasspor fans are very sad because the referee's mistakes continue and our Sivasspor has lost some very important points here. Our wish, our warning to the Football Federation, is to run a fair and fair game, and we want whoever really deserves it in the field, and whoever gets the 3 points, we want the win to be given to him. The Football Federation should know that there are 5 million Sivasians in Istanbul and all over Turkey, so we don't want to protest. We want justice and justice to truly be given to those who deserve it in the field.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0029par0150	Mr. Dursun, please.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0036par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. The presidential decree for agricultural support payments from 2019, which our farmers look forward to, has been published as of today. The announced supports are far below the expectations of our farmers. Increases in support are also far below the production costs. Our farmers, who felt the economic crisis the most deeply and contributed to domestic production, were unable to produce fuel, fertilizer, medicine, and seeds because of the increase that followed. Our farmers are having trouble paying their debts to banks and Agriculture Credit Cooperates. Millions of dollars in sports clubs and our government banks, who are building large-scale corporate debt, also have the power to restructure the debt of our farmers. I'd like to call the General Assembly on the immediate restructuring of our farmers' debts and raising their support rates. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0037par0155	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the Deputy Group Presidents who are demanding a word. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0038par0158	Mr. President, we're going to celebrate tomorrow's 2nd anniversary of Turkey's good and courageous sons and the faith and support of our beloved nation. Congratulations. Praise be to His Holiness, we have quickly changed what is called unchanging, and we have opened the way to a strong and happy Turkey. May our anniversary of the foundation be blessed to our country and to our beloved nation. Remember: we will not be discouraged, we will not fall, we will not be tired until we see the sun. One of the five soldiers injured in the attack launched by PKK terrorists in Ağrı. Our brother, Private Zechariah Altınok, was unfortunately killed yesterday in the hospital where he was treated. It turned out that the martyr Altunok was an ex-police officer who was fired from his profession with the KHK. In 2017 he was discharged from his profession with KHK No. 701 on charges of being a member of Altunok, and was sentenced to 16 months in prison and eventually acquitted. The man you sent to prison for sixteen months after being a terrorist has been martyred for the sake of the flag. We've brought this up before. After he has been dismissed on charges of being a member of the terrorist organization, the extradition of the Turkish Cypriots who have been declared innocent by the court must be carried out immediately by the State of Emergency Commission. Both our citizens and their families are really victims. Every day we come across another tragic story from these families. It's the government's primary duty to address this sacrifice. ▪ Keep a man alive so that those who have ruled the Turkish state for 3,000 years with the understanding of the state should no longer victimize more citizens.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0037par0161	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0038par0162	You stated that you hid it and then threw it away when President Trump of the United States insulted the Republic of Turkey. We don't know if it's been twisted or thrown out, whether it's hidden or hidden, but there's still no clear explanation. The president of no imperialist country cannot use those statements against the Republic of Turkey, and if he is using them, the most severe response must be made. We condemn foreign states as a political figure to what we see today as terrorists, but I have a few words to say to you about it. Don't try to fool anyone, from the moment you met them in Oslo, you pulled them out of the terrorist organization category. Today you are angry with Trump, but the day you sat and negotiated with the same men in Oslo, you were the first to remove these terrorists from the terrorist category.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0037par0165	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0038par0166	In the process of resolving, you accompanied the armed forces of the PYD and helped them enter Syria from our lands, only to seek conservative Kurdish votes. Before the ink of the letter containing bold expressions dried up, Trump addressed a terrorist of his own as general, and then expressed his desire to meet as soon as possible. Now, from here we ask: How do you digest the behavior of a man who insults the Republic of Turkey? We couldn't digest it. We expect you to give this man the proper answer, and we will continue to wait; and if you do not, we will continue to tell our entire nation. I salute the great Parliament.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0039par0172	And an insult to the generals is an insult to him, General. They're referring to it as general, so I'm following it through the press. And this is an insult to generality, a loser who runs away like a cat, under the protection of America. Even the expression "General" hurts. Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0040par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the 23rd anniversary of the province of Osmaniye (October 24th). Here, we want to say that we also celebrate the anniversary of the foundation as our other Ottoman MPs from other parties celebrate the founding anniversary, while we also say hello to all of our Ottoman citizens, who have been acting as President of the National Movement Party's Osmaniye MP. Osmaniye is a major Turkmen city in Çukurova. May God make them come to an end. Mr. President, today is the founding anniversary of the United Nations, officially operational on October 24, 1945. The United Nations is an important organization that serves international peacekeeping purposes, with major wars and security threats never occur again under the leadership of World War II victor states. Given the world's events since its operation in 1945, there have also been some disappointing developments in the event of the United Nations and its capacity to serve international peace. In the processes of war, conflict and human dramas, structural errors have a profound effect on the failure of the United Nations to function. By structural error, we mean that the United Nations Security Council is responsible for five regular members who have not changed as the institution's backbone. Since these five members are often in conflict of interest in major events around the world, the chances of the United Nations taking initiative remain very limited.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0041par0181	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0040par0182	In this framework, we would like to point out that we sincerely support the statement of our President, who once again spoke to the world in the last General Assembly of the United Nations. The structure of the United Nations, which has the ability to put norms in the preservation of peace and security around the world, represents international legitimacy, has become inevitable, especially the Security Council. It is vital that justice is judged in the world order of the fittest, which is increasingly insurmountable, that it becomes a rule of unconstitution, and that peace is granted permanently. The state of the Republic of Turkey, as in its history, has become a role model in the world by contributing to peace and justice with no secret agenda, no secret agenda, without a secret agenda. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing. Turkey's stance and stance undoubtedly disturbs the dominant forces of the world. It is also necessary to assess the developments in our geography today, the operations and attacks on our country. The Turkish state will be able and will be able to overturn these historically endless accounts. The most vivid and close example of this is Operation Fountain of Peace and the process of understanding that develops behind it. Turkey's success at both the field and the table is admirable. At this point, we have here a debt of gratitude to our President and to the esteemed members of the government, especially our glorious army, whose efforts in signing this achievement have taken place. Despite all black propaganda, Turkey's moves will soon be understood that peace and its neighbours serve the territorial integrity of the region and strike a tremendous blow to any kind of terror.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0042par0189	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0040par0190	May God grant the Turkish nation and the Turkish state forever. My respects.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0042par0192	Now I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who want a word. Here you go, Mr. Beko.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0043par0195	Solid waste collectors carry out a major task with the waste they collect on the fight against climate change, which is our country's and our world's common problem. It's an industry that contributes 20 billion a year to the economy. Because of the collected waste, both natural and country resources are being maintained, as well as external dependence on oil and foreign exchanges is diminishing. Unfortunately, 20 percent of the 500,000 paper collectors in our country are children. These should be blocked. The shelters are usually where they collect paper. All the employees are off the books, no social security. 15% are foreign nationals; from countries such as Turkmenistan, Syria, Afghanistan. Their demands are: they want to be defined in the law, they want to have status, and they want to be covered in social security. I'd like you to bring it up on the agenda.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0042par0196	Here you go, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0044par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. October 24th was accepted as World Information Development Day. Knowledge is the only key to coming out of darkness. Is the one who knows equal to the one who does not know? Humanity has come to its present state with an endless transfer of energy and information. The source that feeds knowledge is life itself. A man who reads life well, follows it, and develops it has also enriched his knowledge. One discovery was a harbinger of another discovery, while one information was a paragon of other information. The enrichment of knowledge has also expanded the knowledge library of mankind. True and well-fed people from this library capture the age. As our president-in-chief, Mr. Coral Akşener, says that the difference between being left behind and being strong is knowledge, and I salute the General Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0045par0201	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0046par0203	Mr. President, the city of Mersin, which has laid off many workers before, and banished hundreds of them, has terminated nearly 400 of our fellow workers. Those of us who have been laid off by offering funny reasons, such as the so-called lack of performance, have done the best of what they were given, but unfortunately, they have been thrown out in front of the door. At a time when schools are opening, when winter preparations begin, the persecution of workers will not be explained for any reasonable reason. The Mersin Metropolitan Municipality must act fairer and more humanly towards its own workers, avoid the feelings of partisanism, and act on the idea of neutrality and public service, which is essential to municipalism. I'd like to stress that we are always there for our unemployed brothers and sisters, and that we will keep a close eye on this process. No fellow worker is alone...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0045par0206	Dear Private...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0047par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. On October 24, 1975, our ambassador to Paris, Ismail Erez, was killed by the terrorist organization ASALA. Once again, we remember 31 diplomats and 58 family members, including Ismail Erez, the first anniversary of his death. The date of October 24th is the day Constitutional Professor Mümtaz Soysal was sentenced to six months in prison by Ankara's Criminal Court on charges of propaganda for Marxism in the book "Institution of Constitution." We have often witnessed pressures on scientists, academics, in regimes that do not absorb democracy. The Justice and Development Party repeats the attitudes of inter-governmental regimes, post-depth periods, as a black mark on our political history, in its post-plot stance after the State of Emergency, which it declared in its ruling of free elections. Years after the conviction of Mümtaz Hodja, the Justice and Development Party's ruling was discharged due to its attitude towards the constitutional amendment, which was intended for the regime. It is not acceptable for many academics, academics, academys, and universities to be removed from the platforms of this organization, who, by means of the State of Emergency, are not even remotely related to the terrorist organization. Despite the Constitutional Court's decision on this issue, the failure to return to their duties still demonstrates how the Justice and Development Party approaches the division of forces and the rule of law.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0048par0214	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0047par0215	Mr. President, today is the anniversary of the province of Osmaniye, October 24th. For the past eight years -- officially, officially, eight years -- since we had no Ottoman MP -- we were there to do the honorary legislature work -- here, we were always celebrating the province of Osmaniye, where I now have to go to Osmaniye just to visit Osmaniye, where I don't spend two days of the month in the past 12 months because the high success of politics and the party that we have achieved in Turkey, has given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the last elections, I see how Osmaniye's position as a representative of the Republican People's Party is very important for the people of Osmaniye and the people of Turkey to come close to the politics set forth by CHP, and I salute the people of Osmaniye once again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Tomorrow the House is closed, it won't work, and it's the founding anniversary of our last alliance in the last election. Good people's party, good party. It comes from a culture of objections, a party of people who continue their politics without changing their reaction and posture. We are very pleased that our alliance with them continues with good relations today under the roof of the House, and we wish well in the political life for many years. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Mr. President, I'd like to present a matter that we consider very important to both you and the Presidential Court and other political parties. There's a study we've done. You know, parliamentary research commissions are being set up, all parties in parliament are based on representation rates. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Serious expenses are being made; domestic visits are required abroad. Serious efforts from stenographers to experts assigned to all Turkey are being made, as well as significant expenses are being made to the fees, up to the accommodation costs. Then, a report appears. This report must be reviewed in the General Assembly, but according to our Civil Code, if the report cannot be discussed during that period, the next term cannot be discussed. What was the result? For example, they all investigated the fire at the sorority in Aladağ district of Adana, but we can't discuss that report here. During the 24th Legislature, the report of the commission investigating the Soma mining disaster, the report of the commission investigating the deaths of seasonal agricultural workers, the report of the doping research commission, the report of the commission for researching social peace and coups, failed to discuss six reports. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In all the Justice and Development Party's rule, 63 commissions have been established from 2002 to today, 20 of which have not been considered, Mr. President. It has money spent on people's taxes, the work of the nation's representatives. For three months, sometimes five days a week, 12 hours a day, 14 hours a day, the work becomes a report, but it can't be seen. The Justice and Development Party had to do an accounting, where the coalitions were most critical, during the 20th Legislature -- I looked -- has established 4 separate coalitions 29 research commissions, and has discussed the report of 26 dignitaries. The Justice and Development Party is 20 in 63. One of them did 90 percent, and one of them stayed in the 59-60 percent. This is a sign of respect for the House. It's too bad we don't bring it up for all this work. We're recommending a amendment to the Civil Code. It would be so much better if we all did this together. The following reports can be handled by the Council of Counsellor's decision. Why don't we discuss that husband report of the Aladağ fire here, why not doping, why don't we discuss the report on the Soma disaster? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President. These will be discussed with a small amendment to the Civil Code. Sir, there's also been a report of the coup, but we accept that it didn't occur, and it comes to the agenda. If you say, let's put the coup report in a different place, let's talk about it separately, but while there are 20 reports ready, I don't want this House to be denied. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0049par0233	Members of parliament, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, head of the Serbian Parliament's Foreign Affairs Commission on an official visit to our country, and the delegation with him, welcome to our General Assembly, on behalf of our Parliament. [[Applause]] Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0050par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, you know, today is the anniversary of the province of Osmaniye. I want to make sure that all of our parties are blessed by our MPs, and, of course, by the fact that MHP President, Mr. State Bahli, is also an Ottoman MP, the province of Mr. General President, the province of Republican People's Party (PKK) and the MPs elected by the EC PARTİ, the MP's Party, that all Ottomans have the best luck. May the Lord grant us the good things of all our provinces, that we may live together. Dear friends, you know, it is Turkey's great military, diplomatic and political victory that Turkey has launched under international law that the United States, Russia, and the PKK/YPG terror organization in Syria, have agreed to move down 30km from our borders and establish a safe zone. Turkey has achieved many results in this historic victory as a result of its leadership with the determination of our President, either to the will or to the death. The complete destruction of the 40-year-old PKK/YPG terror and securing security across our entire border to prevent infiltration of our country have also opened the way for the Syrians we have hosted to be placed in a secure zone on their territory. Both the United States and Russia have been accepted and signed as a terrorist organization for which PKK/YPG has been pulled down 20 miles [30 km] from all our borders.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0051par0242	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0050par0243	The terrorist state, which was planned to be established in the terrorist corridor, also collapsed from Nile to Fırat. At the same time, this process before the eyes of all mankind is seen as a complete collapse of Western values and the end of the masked bubble is seen by everyone on the brink of a new era. This new era, on the subject of persecution and exploitation, is not a double and false order; it is a primitive, genuine and sincere order on justice. Under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey is greater than the world of five. With its motto, it shouts the truth to the world. Our motto: We want what we want for ourselves, for all mankind, and we don't want what we don't want for ourselves. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm putting it together for the last time. The formula and key to peace, peace, security is this understanding and this primitive posture. Turkey, led by Erdogan, has proved it to the world. Thus, the people of the world shout out aloud that Turkey is the hope and the conscience of mankind and their loud voice. A new world, once spent years ago by Ismet Inönu, is established, and Turkey takes its place in this world. The process of the creation of a new world under Turkey's leadership has begun today. Under the leadership of our beloved nation, mankind will have a new world order of justice and mercy, and hopefully a whole new era will begin. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our work to be good, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0052par0249	Mr. Bahshi, please.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0053par0251	Mr. President, thank you. Students who graduated from upper secondary schools teaching in health care in vocational and technical Anadolu upper secondary schools have been awarded title and job descriptions as part of the official paper published on 18/1/2014, and titled as assistant nurse, assistant midwife and healthcare technicians. However, the Ministry of Health Law has not opened a staff of such titles. Do they have any work to establish titles given by law and state staffs in accordance with the descriptions of the duties given to our children, many of whom are children of low-income families of Anatolia? Is it possible that due to the intensity of vocational studies, new arrangements are being made for these students, who have very low rates of admission to universities, to be placed in pre-license programmes for at least their departments? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0054par0254	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Research Commission has a thesis on the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our commission has been elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk for the election 23/10/2019 on Wednesday at 4 p.m., and has been elected Speaker, Speaker and Clerk, according to Article 24 of the Interior Charter, taking the following vote, with their names and last names written down. For your information. Yours truly. President: Genghis Aydoğdu (Aksaray) (7) vote Vice President: Osman Meten (Bursa) (6) votes Speaker: Zeynep Gül Yilmaz (Mersin) (6) vote Clerk: Ahmet Özdemir (Heramanmarash (6) votes
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0055par0272	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0054par0273	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0055par0276	Mr. President, the Rabia Naz Commission... The heart of all Turkey aches, isn't it, we're all upset, we're all devastated. All parties have shown common sensitivity, we've met in Parliament, we've decided to set up a commission. I looked at the commission, all political parties have appointed women MPs, lawmakers, lawmakers of Giresun, MPs of Giresun, non-deputies of the nearby provinces. It's an important Commission. He went to the meeting yesterday at 4:00 p.m. on your call, where he will be elected president, second president, spokesman. The Republican People's Party has made a suggestion: let's give one of the political parties who attend the entire meeting this task to one of the oldest members. He said "Let him be the youngest member." He said "Let him be the youngest member." You know what the result is, guys? The Rabia Naz Commission was created by four members of the Presidential Court of AK PARTY. Now, it's a matter of compromise, politics. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Today, Mr. Ömer Çelik says on TV: "Sir, we would expect a speech from Kilicdaroglu: I will not criticize power in my group speech this week in the cross-border operation. We would expect that responsibility." Brother, this responsibility from us... that the main opposition party doesn't see so many wrongs... that we stand together, that we stand together, that the opposition abandons its duty... that you try to clear your own mistakes through the army. The Rabia Naz Commission! A little boy, what he went through, how he died? We're setting up the commission, the president of the EC PARTY, the 2nd President of the EC PARTY, his spokesman from the AK PARTY, the writer from the AK PARTY. We say: "Bring in the member of the MPHP" and let's share 1, 2, 3, 4. They even vote against him. It's not acceptable. What kind of approach? And then what kind of compromise culture? HOW can an AK PARTY defend this? How do you digest the entire administration of the Rabia Naz Commission, taking 100 per cent of it with your 46 per cent representation in parliament? There are examples, they're shared in the Human Rights Review Commission, they're forced to, the law came up, you didn't. There's an example in the Women's Male Equivalency Commission. There's nothing natural about this sharing. How can you not take that step? And if you, in national matters, cannot embrace the House in the commission established on the death of a girl like Rabia Naz, how will you embrace Turkey? I really don't know what to say. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0056par0286	THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Here, read this: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 24/10/2019 (today), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Anthalia MP Feridun Bahshi and lawmakers have suggested that talks should be held in front of other motions on Thursday 24/10/2019, in order to investigate the reasons why the Valley of Sight has been removed from being a national park and the measures to protect our cultural and natural assets, which are considered to be the common heritage of all mankind. To explain the reason for the proposal, Mr. Feridun Bahshi is an Antalya MP on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0057par0302	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the group's proposal to investigate the reasons why the Valley of Sight has been removed from being a national park. I salute you all. The Cappadocian basin, which is a region spread throughout the provinces of Nevşehir, Kırşehir, Niğde, Aksaray and Kayseri, is a place where nature and history meet. Since then, natural events have formed fairy chimneys, and in their time, people have carved themselves into living spaces to be used by building houses, churches, mosques or hotels. Cappadocia means the land of beautiful horses in Persian. In the middle of the Cappadocia region, which leads Turkish tourism, there is the Eyes Valley, the Eyes National Park. The Observation National Park was declared a national park in the UNESCO World Heritage List as both cultural and natural heritage, and in 1986 by the Council of Ministers' decision. The Valley of Sight is one of Turkey's most important tourist destinations. The Cappadocia region has been able to come to this day along with its unique geological beauty and cultural richness in these geological structures, consisting of the Volcanoes of the Saapdocia National Park, Ercijas and Hasan Mountain. The most important thing to preserve this cultural and natural wealth so far is that it is a national park. Now, I ask: What is the purpose of removing the national parking property of the Valley of Sight? Will the region be opened to construction, Ranta, construction? Don't you realize that if the region opens up, regional tourism will be completely destroyed? Don't you know that natural and cultural beings will be completely plundered, looted? In short, who are you going to turn this place around to? Which of your allies are you going to make rich? How far will you go by changing the country's natural and cultural presence, by changing its status, by sacrificing it to Ranta? Just a few days ago, didn't you go after the owner of the company, Haydarpaşa Garı, who had a photo with Mr. Minister, who you had set up with a man who worked for Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality on a salary of 3,000 lira two years ago, who you didn't even ask where he got this capital from? What's this new step when it's still fresh in our memories? Aren't you enough? Aren't you going to get enough? You have come as Aaron, and have become like Korah. Enough is enough. Dear lawmakers, during the last legislature, as you know, have adopted a law proposal for the establishment of the Cappadocia Field Commission. With this offer, you said the Cappadocia region has more than one protection status, which creates planning and protection issues. We, the GOOD PARTI, supported this proposal by finding your motives positive, because we thought that the arrangement would prevent illegal construction and contribute positively to the development of this region. But with this final decision, the removal of national park status, let alone prevent illegal construction, the path of looting, looting. We saw the results of the illegal construction in Tripoli Longgöl. Guys, take a look at this picture. Before Longgöl, the Longgöl after the construction. Again, the mindset that builds high TOKI houses beside Halima Hatun in Van Gevash will do more to the Valley of Sight. Guys, it's the club again and the next photo with the TOKI houses. The Kaz Mountains are on the agenda, as it is known. The recent form of the Kaz Mountains is seen in this photograph by friends. I don't even go into Okluk Bay. Dear friends, with thousands of examples like this and so forth, I ask you again: Why is the status of the National Park of Sight needed to be lifted? Which son, which nephew, or side will be followed? What is the purpose of removing the protection status of our cultural and natural beings, the common heritage of all mankind? The following excuses, such as the previous examples, are not convincing when it comes to reason, were removed from the national park status to prevent a disturbance in order to maintain the area of power.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0058par0313	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0057par0314	Thank you. The decision to remove the national park status of the Valley of Sight must be withdrawn immediately. I hereby welcome your support for our group proposal, our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0059par0318	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I promise Mr. Faruk Sarıaslan. Here you go, Mr. Yellowaslan.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0060par0321	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Valley of Sight is a valley unlike any other in the world. On October 30, 1986, the Council of Ministers ruled that the area around the Hall of Sight and the surrounding area was declared a national park. The Valley of Sight was also considered the UNESCO World Heritage site in 1985, and there is no other equivalent in the world. With the presidential decree, this area has been removed from national park status. You know, it's not a wedding, it's not a holiday. Why? The Minister of Tourism made a statement to the press about this decree and said, "The goal of this decision is to prevent the confusion of authority." I ask the Minister: We have recently taken out the Law on the Kapadocia Field in order to prevent chaos in this Parliament and prevent many heads. So that reason doesn't reflect the truth. Two of my friends from Capadocia are here from Nevşehir. When we talked to them about the adoption of this field law, I said that certain substances would be changed and would be useful to our region. We supported it in this House. When you look at the purpose of the substance, the reason for the cause is also to avoid confusion. So there's a law against chaos. So the reason for this is that the minister's alibi does not reflect the truth. I'll tell you the truth: there's a tourist movement in Cappadocia, room prices are up, profit margins are up, and the secondary capital is naturally -- it's a habit -- and the archers and grooms have come in. This place was supposed to be removed from national park status for development, because you can't even nail a national park status. So you've completed phase one. Now it's stage two. In a little while, you'll give your fellow investors a hotel building license, enough to moisturize, and then you'll be gone. The capadocia region will be destroyed, the number of tourists will be reduced, and the worst damage will be done to the locals. When the tourists don't show up, you'll start calling them external forces. You have a knack for throwing all blame on the outside. You will destroy this land and geography, which our economist has made for us, and then you will rise up and seek refuge in the word of geography. Now I want to answer you with a word from the Lord. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm going to say a word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0061par0326	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0060par0327	He says: "Fear not the wicked, but the people who conceal their intentions. " My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0061par0330	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the statement belongs to Mr. Mustafa Aggressor of Nevşehir MP Mustafa. Here you go, Mr. Smarty-pants.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0062par0332	Mustafa, tell us about this Vision. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0063par0333	Mr. President, my dear Court, my dear fellow congressmen, my dear nation, I salute you with love and love. Of course, in fact, while listening to our Nevşehir MP, I especially congratulate him on his reading intentions, which, indeed, must be such a gift to read hearts and minds. I mean, we've listened to this in a state of awe.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0064par0335	I'll give you an example, for example...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0063par0336	Of course, in fact, today's fashion has also developed - unreal perceptions, beginning to stand in the way of truth and truth, as in this world, in the home, in Sight. Unfortunately, the perception management is trying to dilute heads, brains. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've told each other on the Commission and on the House. We've acknowledged here that jurisdictional turmoil, ministers, boards, institutions, many factors have caused a disturbance of authority and confusion in the region, and therefore an effective protection, effective promotion, and effective development have not been achieved. Our deputy and our Nevşehir MP said that he supported it, but they rushed to the Constitutional Court, as per a CHP mentality. He says he supports Alan in the area, but unfortunately he knows what he's doing from behind.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0064par0338	I wonder what we went with. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0063par0339	Didn't you appeal to the Constitutional Court about the cancellation of the field administration, Congressman? He's been applied. Anyway, let's skip that. What we want to say, friends, is that the goal of national parks is to protect and protect, and we're already doing it with the Alan administration. With the law we passed, with the law you all support, our goal is to protect and first our goal is to protect. We'll make sure of that. Therefore, we will gather in one place the authority of many boards, the institution, the institution, and provide an effective protection. We know that the purpose of all of our fellow Regents here and our people in the region is to transfer this beautiful world to future generations. But our guardians, our Nevcity countrymen, their mission, their vision, their balloons, their boutique hotels, their tourism, our Nevşehir people's livelihoods, their livelihoods, and their labors are always in this area. So don't worry, we'll keep an eye on the area. And I'm asking you, how are you going to get a runt from a place with 96 percent private property? My deputy Feridun, have you seen him? Has he visited the Deepkuyu, and the Sublime?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0065par0344	Of course we did...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0066par0345	You invited us and we didn't go?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0063par0346	I'll invite him... invite him... How'd we make a ranta, guys? Yeah, I'm really curious.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0066par0348	Call it in, let's go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0063par0349	I mean, we're very upset that there's an unreal perception of politics, and it's just this unreal perception that rules like this. So, we have only one goal: to protect this area, to improve this region, and to transfer the world's common heritage into the future, friends. And don't worry, that's what the local people do, because they have a very high sense of tourism, of vision. My tourist earns his living, earns his living, earns his livelihood. So it's worth more to him than his eye and his life, and for us, don't worry. We never, ever accept accusations like this on the floor. Our only goal is to protect, improve, and divide. I'm waiting for you all.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0067par0352	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0068par0353	What do you want us to do, trust the local people, not you? Should we trust you with the locals?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0063par0354	Friends, you can count on anything. Really, again, we only have one goal, to protect it. If we protect it, if we protect the livelihoods of man, our people will make a living from it. I'm inviting all our deputies, I'm waiting, but never forget this.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0069par0356	Have you come to the Kaz Mountains?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0070par0357	Mustafa, have you seen the Seljuk cube?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0063par0358	They're just trying to do politics on a perception operation. Of course, our agreement with UNESCO is already under way. The agreement on UNESCO has not been terminated, my friends, we have not, we are moving on. We only have one goal: to protect and develop, to grow. Do not worry, they will take better care of the life and the sight of the people of Cappadocia, a country that aims at 70 million tourists. I'm waiting for all of our deputies in Cappadocia, and please, it's said in the field that politics and politics at Nevşehir headquarters are different here is hypocrisy, my friends, and we're very sad about it. And I send my regards to our world leader Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan and to our glorious, heroic Turkish army, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0071par0361	Mr. President, in the speech of the speaker, it is hypocritical to say that politics and politics in parliament are different. According to the Civil Charter 69, the right to answer is required.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0072par0362	Mr. President, I have something to say, if you'll just excuse me.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0073par0363	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0072par0364	Now, my friend showed me this photo, and I'm just showing it so you can see it better. Look, this is the side of Seljuk's graves, Seljuk's cube. Next to it is an empty plot of land. I mean, if that's your idea of protection, then what's gonna happen to Vision? The task of seeing is very difficult if that is how you will protect it.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0074par0365	Let us meet in twenty years if Allah giveth life, and let us meet in ten years, if Allah giveth life.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0072par0366	So we trust the locals, but we can't trust you, that's the problem.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0074par0367	Don't worry, you can count on anything.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0075par0368	But I'll tell you one thing, with experience -- I'll give you my word -- it's more points for the county lawmakers to get along with each other. I mean, you're not...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0076par0369	Yeah, there's no such thing. I have no intention of picking on you like this. I'm just going to explain, I don't intend to.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0075par0370	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0076par0374	Now, dear friends, when Alan's law came in -- we sat down together -- we talked -- I said I'd support it, support it, vote like this, loud and clear. The fact that we're taking it to the Constitutional Court as the Republican People's Party is not about the cancellation, it's about making it better, it's not about what's out there. Two: Now, hypocrite... I'm told I say different here in Nevşehir. Everyone who knows my identity and my personality knows my identity. I will say the same thing here in Nevşehir, and I will keep saying it. Look, I'll tell you something: he says: "We stand by whatever we say, we don't take sides." On 13/12/2018, a company is applying for permission to do commercial aeronautics with a balloon -- not to mention your name, but to the head of the man -- to the head of the general manager. The General Manager rejects the date 24/5/2019 and article 291/56034. I don't want to tell you the reason for the rejection is long. ▪ The area is limited to business and flight issues. It is called. There are 20 applications involved, all rejected for the same reason.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0077par0377	There's more.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0076par0378	Now, then an aide is applying. Now, while you've been given the same reasons for that advocacy... look, I'll tell you the reasons here... because it's dangerous: from the year 2013, various measures have been taken by the General Manager in the Cappadocia region. The area is restricted to business and flight issues. You gave your own followers two permits six months later. So when it comes to allies, you protect the interests of the country, not the interests of nature, but the interests of the allies first. Do a survey in Nevşehir, see which MP... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're men, and you're personalities, and I would never say anything like that, so be sure of it. I don't say anything about anyone's identity or personality, but I keep saying it for the interests of the country, for the interests of Nevşehir, all over the world, without hesitation.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0078par0384	I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Go ahead and read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 24/10/2019 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. It has been suggested that the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly's main parliamentary survey proposal (10/583) of the Parliamentary Assembly, which was given to assess the situation of forest roads and fire safety routes in the part of the Turkey's General Assembly's agenda for General Discussion and Assembly Research, shall be held on Thursday 24/10/2019 (today). On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I pledge to Mr. Suzan Şahin.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0079par0398	Mr. President, the esteemed members of the Grand Assembly, news of the forest fire, which has been feared in Turkey, especially in the summer months. According to a statement from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, a total of 1,965 forest fires from the beginning of 2019 have been interrupted, and a total of 5,469 hectares of land have been burned in these fires, where forest plants and animals have been destroyed. The government's policy, unfortunately, is to intervene after the fires have started. In order to prevent human-based forest fires, 96% of them should be monitored between human and forest protection policies, but other provisions are being carried out that encourage them to walk away and burn the forest. You are aware, lawmakers, that in violation of the Constitution with the latest judicial package, the crime of deliberately setting a forest fire in accordance with the crime of the serial reasoning process has been committed on TCK 170. TCK 170 catalogs of crime have been excluded from TCK 171. Why, for whom? So, deliberately, less punishment for the forest burner, more punishment for the fire maker. You're setting fire to a forest instead of opening a forest road? This is literally a healthy environment, allowing healthy life to be looted, almost encouraging. A hotel is one of Turkey's bleeding wounds in the area of burning areas by the construction of construction contractors and businessmen as a result of the Rant forest fires and these fires. Don't raise awareness of forest fires, then resist not building a forest fire road despite the law. Not enough, give the aircraft to intervene in the fire, the helicopter contract to the Turkish Air Agency, which is worth $34m more than that for political ambition. Do not urge the Turkish Air Service to take office in the emergency framework while the fires are going on. Then, especially after the fires in the tourist zones, open up construction, like encouraging areas that have been damaged. Let the forests of our future generations become a concrete dump. With every news of a fire, our lungs burn, our breath stops, and your conscience aches, doesn't it? We don't want to think that the fires were set on purpose. Come on, it's a fire, let's say it's a fire, but the main reason why there's so much damage is the lack of forest fire roads that are responsible for the Forestry and Forestry Department. Why isn't it done? Because there's no road, the teams are either in the fire late or they can't get to the fire site. Which increases the area of ash. Forest Law 3116 of 1937 stated the functions of forest roads, fire safety roads and lanes in preventing forest fires, and although it is a legal obligation, construction of these facilities has not yet been completed in 80 years. According to the Ministry of Agriculture's current production programme and 2018 data, if a thousand kilometers of fire roads are built a year, it can only be finished in 2065, 47 years later. In the same way, construction of fire safety roads can be completed in 2045, 27 years after the construction of 200km a year. According to the Constitution, the protection of forests is guaranteed by the state, but the state will be helpless in the fires by 2065. This country doesn't have that much time, precious MPs. In general planning and implementation of forest roads, fire safety roads and lanes, forest fires need to be completed as soon as possible to concentrate in the most sensitive areas.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0080par0403	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0079par0404	The fact that a total of 35,111 hectares have been damaged in the forest fire, which has occurred within Turkey's borders in the past five years, and the concern for building in areas that have been exposed to the fire is a major concern in our nation, while a parliamentary search for forest fires and early intervention is essential. Dear lawmakers, social and environmental health, the preservation of wildlife and plant life, the balance of life's life's water and plant population are political issues, above-party issues. In the forests of our country's lungs, the future generations are entrusted to us, and the 600 deputies under the roof of this great House must be held in full arms. Your acceptance vote for this motion today will be your greatest legacy to your children and grandchildren. As we explained, preventing natural destruction, preventing certain natural disasters... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm putting it together in one sentence, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0081par0408	Can we have another minute?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0082par0409	Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0079par0410	...to investigate the construction of forest roads and fire safety routes and determine the solution proposals for the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the High Assembly and our people to be informed. I salute the High Council and the consciences of you esteemed lawmakers. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0083par0413	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0084par0414	Dear Private...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0083par0417	Mr. President, he just told me that the Republican People's Party has applied to the Constitutional Court regarding Cappadocia. Mr. Orator, we've had some applications for the better, not the appeal." he said. Mr. Group Vice President also said: "It's not like that, it's a cancellation, you can't do any better." We have an application in front of me. Now, the application objects once: on June 1, 2019, we make the law, and at the same time they issue a presidential decree. The issue under the law is not regulated by the presidential decree. Due to the principle of the presidential decree... our reason is that if the issues are to be held there, it will be arranged by law. We call it one. Secondly, the point we object to in the law is the commission's agenda, and we would like to have the statement taken out at the invitation of the office to attend the meeting as an observer at the invitation of the administration.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0084par0420	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0083par0421	I mean, if the governor wanted to call you there, why did we say it for days here? Why did the government invite you? Let the NGOs come and attend the meetings of the President of Cappadocia as a direct observer. You didn't accept the invitation of the decision to continue the violation of the Constitution. Let me continue with the statement of the Constitution. We have a motion here, Mr. President, and we say, "Why are you giving the governor this authority? Let the architects' room come directly, it's about Cappadocia." We stand by that motion and object to that statement. Mr. Orator says: "I will support you there." You said, here you say the Constitutional Court. Look, look, look, look. We congratulate Faruk Sarıaslan in front of the reports, and we complain to all those who love Cappadocia, who love Turkey, who love Nevşehir, who love Nevşehir, who strive to humiliate him in front of the voters. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0085par0425	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0086par0427	Thank you, Mr. President. A moment ago, the CHP Group Vice President's statement should be as follows. When we said, "The name of the case is a mistrial case," we said. One, the case is called a mistrial. Two, conflicting explanations about this matter are evident. At the same time, Your Honor, Omar Çelik Beyin has just expressed certain issues in the statements of our party spokesman, and I read the exact words in front of the text that he said in front of the text: "They are trying to carry out political sabotage by addressing the message in the group speech of his ruling from our side. If he is sincere, the CHP's president should bring a criticism of the party that is with the terrorist organization. Turkey's righteous argument was accepted by the world, but the CHP failed to display that maturity. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ▪ He asked seven questions. We know he hasn't been respectful to this office so far. The leak of the letter was intended to be used to sabotage all these diplomatic success processes. In the same group speech, Kilicdaroglu voiced propaganda, which was expressed as a lie by the People's Republic of Turkey and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). He's doing it while Mehmetchik is stationed across the border. Timing also makes sense. What Turkey has done is to free the peoples of the Middle East from terror. Those who speak the words that legitimize terrorist organisations should first give self-criticism about their own words if they speak of political integrity. In his speeches, he keeps talking about honor, and he says, "No workers will be removed during the election, and I promise honor." Did he forget his words? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, the assessment is about this minimum, and it is not right to draw it to another point.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0087par0435	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0088par0436	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0087par0438	We're looking at a weakness in confusion. They said: "You've filed a cancellation of the President of Cappadocia." We said: "No, we have a few objections, we've applied to improve it." The issue arises, and then says: "I said the name of the language is a cancellation petition. Then he reads to me the explanations of Omar Çelik. I'm telling you, Omar Çelik said: "Sir, I wish you hadn't criticised us when there was a cross-border operation." We say: You're saying that unity, unity, unity, unity. Today, the Rabia Naz Commission was established -- I said yesterday -- the Vice President, Vice President, Writer, Clerk, Clerk, you've taken all of this into the EC PARTİ. Even in this job, you can't associate with this Parliament, then there's a cross-border operation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you're trying to clear your own shortcomings out of our love, respect, respect. Your president is holding a meeting of mayors -- ten hours after the operation starts -- you have to cancel it, internal political activity is at its highest level -- and then he says, "I'm calling on my entire nation to unite at the AK PARTI." What if that's a job? Is that what this is? Is that a tie? The party state, the state party... you, but in this case, answer my question about Rabia Naz. In this way, when a child dies, we become partners in a pain, we say, "Let's all be together, let's be CHP, let's be together, let's be in charge of the Commission."
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0089par0444	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0090par0446	Thank you. If only the matter had been framed about Rabia Naz, we would have answered him, but Rabia Naz is actually being criticised by Omar Çelik Bey's rightful explanations. We all set up the commission together, by the common will of all parties, and by the free will of the Commission, everyone was assigned. This is a separate matter, which I remind you of, because there may be separate debates, demands, evaluations, but you've been able to pull out of there on the basis of action and for the AK PARTY. At the same time, regarding the mistrial case, see, we've established a law, the application of the law, the decree, the application, the law, the framework, the details of what it would be like to be carried out. With no discrepancies, and with the subject in the past, going back to the past, re-opening the issues that were obtained in the previous session, the things that ended...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0091par0450	We're in the same session, we're in the same session.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0090par0451	In the same session, no... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're in the same session, same session, same bet, no point in going back when we're moving on to something else.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0091par0454	You can't do that!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0090par0455	And therefore, I am obliged to present your contradictions. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0091par0457	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0092par0458	Mr. Free, let's pack it up.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0091par0460	Mr. President, that's not gonna happen. We're in the First Session, and everyone at the head of their televisions sees it, First Session, one. Two, we're not the ones who came back. Your secretary says: "You went for the letter. " What will I do? Send me an example of the cancellation file, which I'm going to call my group counselor. He didn't make it in three minutes. So, when it comes, do I have a natural right to explain it? We look, and it confirms us, and it confirms Faruk Sarıaslan. When I said that, sir, you applied for an oath. We said it, but we said its name... and then he said something different and tried to justify it. Look, if you've got a job, you've got a whole lot to do, you've got a lot to do, you've got a lot to defend, but if you can't do it, don't try to cover it up with anything else. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0093par0464	Dear President, last but not least...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0094par0465	Before you give me an answer, please.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0093par0466	Finally, I'll tell you in terms of information.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0094par0467	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0093par0469	I didn't give a speech either, just that I said something to him that no one would ever hear, that his name was being called off during the speech, and maybe he didn't even file a report. I mean, I don't want to have this conversation...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0095par0470	You didn't call it a mistrial.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0093par0471	Yes, I said his name was...ital case.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0095par0472	You said the case would be called off.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0093par0473	The mistrial, the name of the case, is the eptal case. Our friend, the speaker MP, says: "You have filed a mistrial. That's it. So you're saying so many, so many, so many words that you don't want to talk to him about something that no one's ever heard, and you're describing this point as a twist when we're talking about our rights and what we're saying. This approach is self-inflicted distortion. Dear friends, that's what I'm making. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0095par0475	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0096par0476	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0095par0478	Everyone who has a conscience should think for themselves, when an MP comes out of the same constituency, against Faruk Sarıaslan, says: "First, we will support Kapadocia." You say, "You will go to the Constitutional Court for the annulment of the law." This is political hypocrisy. When you say that, should we say, "We didn't cancel the law, we went to improve it?" And you say, "There's no case, there's no healing trial, there's no case." When you say, "When this evidence comes out like a door, shall we sit down and shut up?" You're either going to prove your claim, or when you're embarrassed like this, you're going to shut up like all the embarrassments. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0097par0480	There's no shame in it.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0095par0481	What's more, what's more!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0097par0482	There's no shame in it.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0095par0483	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0097par0484	There's no shame in it.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0098par0485	Dear MPs, I'm with Nevşehir. I think good things will happen with Nevşehir. Nevville is a valuable, meaningful place for us. I pay my respects to Nevşehir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, I promise Mr Muhammad Naci Cinisli. Here you go, Mr. Cinisli.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0099par0493	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to try to make a statement to our High Council on a matter of great importance that won't fit in three minutes. First of all, I have to say that the management of the forest is in the wrong ministry organization. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which are trying to be managed by desk decisions, needs to look at its approach to our forests from the beginning. Mr. President, we went and looked at the situation of the Kaz Mountains with the members of our Lady Coral Akşener and the GOOD PARTY, and we saw the disaster in its place. The question is, do we want to protect our forests? Recently, hundreds of hectares of forest land have been destroyed, our living beings have been damaged. Only this year during January-August, there were 1,345 forest fires, in which 2,987 hectares of forest were burned to ashes. The first way to put out fires is to show the will to blow up Turkish Air Force planes. The largest private aircraft of Europe, which the Turkish Air Agency declared to be in inventory, was not used in forest fires that were growing to threaten the settlements of Dalaman, Dalak and İzmir. One of the most important natural resources, and its values in the national economy have become an inevitable obligation to develop and protect the growing forests. Dear lawmakers, we must realize that the owners of our forests are forest villagers. We shouldn't think of our jungle villagers as thieves, who are practically parenting our forests. The forest can't be protected with forest guards alone. We've got jungle villagers calling in any forest fire. Let's not forget they're the ones who called in the first call in the forest fires and worked hard to put out the forest fires. On this occasion, I would like to point out that while arrangements are being made for the protection of the forests, natural life and living things must also be considered. In this context, banning a goat is a very wrong desk for the health of the forest. Of course, it is necessary for goats not to enter the new forest grounds until they are unable to reach the upper exiles, but it is not useful for goats to be banned in the ancient forests; rather, it is harmful. The goat is useful to the forest, scrapes the ground with its fingernails, works, fertilizers and seeds. It also eats the lower shoots, dilutes the saplings, making the trees grow. I salute the General Assembly with your attention that the growth of a forest is nearly the size of a human life.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0100par0503	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0101par0507	Mr. President, the construction of the subgated intersection in downtown Kahramanmarash is not over. This affects the flow of traffic inside the city, causing congestion and distress. We're waiting for the intersections to be finished as soon as possible. Other than the intersections, there is also a general shortage of domestic transportation in Kahramanmarash. These troubles can't be taken care of. The center of the city, Tripoli Street, was not relieved despite millions of money spent; rather, it became a search for its former self. The new project is now being mentioned. I'm afraid the planned project won't be a solution again, the expenses will be wasted. It is not possible to regulate the flow of traffic before the parking problem is resolved downtown. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0102par0513	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, MP Ibrahim Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0103par0516	Mr. President, dear MPs, dear nation, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. Our president is a forest engineer, and we have three forest engineers in our Parliament. I'm starting by saying that I'm honored to be speaking about forest fires and forest roads in his presidency. In the fight against forest fires and fires, fire safety roads and lanes have been important ever since. On the proposal of the CHP Group's research commission to be established, my group, the forest engineer who served in forest fires such as Antalya, Mughla, Izmir, for 30 years, gave me this speech. Yes, as our country has improved in everything, especially the forest service, the forest headquarters have made great improvements in recent years, improved itself greatly. Especially about forest fires... when the taxpayers went to the fire with the rake, with the tundra... and now a powerful forest service was established... about forest fires, and in the past 45 minutes, this has now fallen down to twelve minutes in recent years. Yes, the forest roads were planned in the 1960s. At that time, the road is needed. It has been called 300,000 km. Most of it has been completed by 275,000 kilometers. But during forestry activities, 25,000 kilometers of fire safety lanes were made based on this in areas that were first-degree sensitive in the fire. We're trying to build a forest in areas that are sensitive to all these forest fires, especially forest fires, all of our work depends on it. Again, our strategy is to prevent and train fires; second, early and effective intervention; third, rehabilitation of burning areas. Now, we can really do early and effective intervention because our first response team number is 281 water tankers at 1,173 points, 1.076 first responders, 586 first responders, 182 dozers, 25 of our aircraft, and we can immediately see from the tower and act in 30 seconds and act early and efficient in 12 minutes. The most talked about is the rehabilitation of areas that have been burned in recent years. That's all I've ever talked about in my district office. There's no trees, there's no trees, there's no building, there's no hotel... there's no such thing. I've worked in three district departments, areas that are sensitive to fire.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0104par0525	Round it up, Congressman. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0103par0526	So far, there's no burned-out 1 square meter so that there'll be a hotel and a construction site. You're welcome to that. In recent years, our country has been very successful with forest fires... When we looked at the last ten years of average, Turkey had 6,665 hectares, and Greece found 25,000 hectares, 30,000 hectares in Portugal, 11,000 hectares in Spain. I congratulate the staff of the Forest General Directorate, especially the forest peasant and the forest fire staff, from their tower workers to their dozers, from their engineers to their employees. So far we've given 117 martyrs, and I say God bless our martyrs, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit01spe0104par0529	I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0104par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the Law and other tasks from the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Konya MP Ziya Altunyaldız and 85 MPs in the Customs Act, the Law Proposal and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Yesterday's merger remained in the motion of Article 7 of the first chapter of Law Proposal 104, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. There are three motions on the 7th article, and I will process the motions according to the degree of disparity. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the 7th amendment of Law Proposal 104 be changed in the following manner. 1. Under customs regulations, a guarantee must be given to ensure payment of customs taxes or other amma-recessors, such guarantees are given by those who may or may not be responsible for the amount of taxes and other amma they will receive. Umit Yilmaz Esin Kara Olcay Manual Mustafa Kalaycı Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Düzce MP Umit Yilmaz wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0105par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise to change the 7th Amendment to Law Proposal 104. I salute the General Assembly. Before we begin my words, I wish God's mercy to our brothers and brothers of the Syrian national army who were martyrs in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace, and to our veterans, and to those on duty. Dear lawmakers, Düzce Province is a city in which the production of industry is quite large, as well as four active organised industrial areas in its region, one established but not operational organised industrial zone and forest products integrated co-operative website. In all, there are over 10,000 workers operating in these organised industrial areas. As of September 2019, Düzce (Düzce) is an export figure of 165 million dollars, and that's actually one-quarter of the real number because the accounting of companies is kept in other tax offices. Düzle is capable of a major industrial area and industrial city, which is likely to be several times the value we've explained in the number of companies and export numbers, with organised industrial areas fully filled and half-organized industrial areas operating 100 per cent in the coming years. In addition to organised industrial areas, the Düzce stands out as an important agricultural exporting fruit production and processing centre. The amount of nuts exported from Düzce (Düzce) in 2018 is 13.7 tonnes. In addition to the nuts, 5,580 tonnes of other agricultural products were exported from Düzce. In the first eight months of 2019, 5,273 tonnes of nuts were exported to European Union countries. In 2019, export revenues from nuts and products were around $2,100,000. In fact, these numbers are well below the actual numbers. Because Düzce is a center that produces about 60,000 tons of nuts, which is used as interior nuts for about 30,000 tons. According to all these productions and exports, there is no customs directorship in Düzce. The lack of customs management prevents actual export figures from being reflected on paper, which makes the numbers of cities like Düzce and Düzce appear to be low. Even in a neighbouring province with half the number of exports, there is no explanation for the lack of office in Düzce province. Therefore, the establishment of the customs office to Düzceyah is the right demand of the Düzceli industrialists and nut exporters. In addition, the lack of customs offices in our provinces such as Düzce and Düzce also causes the city to lose its share of the customs duties it must obtain. The loss of customs tax, an important income pen, is lowering the city's revenue and blocking investments in the city. Another important problem of the cities on the Düzce and Düzce scale is the holding of accounting records for companies whose headquarters are in other cities and the transfer of taxes to the central cities of the company. The decree that Article 14 of the Law on Taxes 5520 shall not be issued a separate declaration in the 4th article of Article No. 5520 deprives such provinces of tax revenue. Imagine that in Düzce, the company, which has nearly 200,000 square metres in its factory, has 5-6 employees in its central Istanbul office, but all its taxes are written in Istanbul's household. In this case, the city where the factory is is unable to benefit from the incomes, such as added value tax, institutional tax, as well as the workers' lay-offs. A amendment or regulation of Law 5520 should be arranged by companies to pay taxes to the tax office in the province where they are located, considering their original production.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0106par0031	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0105par0032	With such an arrangement, the transfer of the firms' taxes to the tax office of the city where they produce it will create a huge value tax for our region and for our city. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0107par0036	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0108par0039	Mr. President, we've heard from the Honorable Congressman of Düzce. There's an important point to be made here. We're here to discuss an offer of law, which we normally need to discuss according to Article 81 of the Civil Code. But if you're discussing the First Amendment law, which is defined as an exception, consider it 30-30 divided by 30 articles, it gives you an opportunity to view it as an exception. This is an exception: a way to apply twice, three times in five years. The Justice and Development Party used it 10 times in the 22nd term, used it 100 times in 23, now it has made the exception basic, and what is the result? The esteemed MP would like to speak in the Customs Law and demand the establishment of the customs directorate for Düzce. Where's he gonna talk about it? He'll talk about it in this article.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0107par0041	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0108par0042	Can he talk? He can't talk because it's the basic law. What's the Group Vice President supposed to do? We're doing the same thing. They changed the word "also" to "also" or "also." They're gonna have to, and we're doing it, and there's nothing abnormal about what the National Party of Action did. He invents speech for five minutes, and he does it for five minutes, or he goes out, trying to explain himself as a congressman. How, though, should we do so according to the Civil Charter 81? Every party has a say when this stuff comes in, not in the basic law. If each party were to speak in this article, we wouldn't try to invent words with the motion, not us, not MHP or HDP. There's a situation here that defines living as a quality-deprived situation and defines it as an istina. To write this down and show that it's an unhealthy law... because 20 years later, when someone looks at the report, they say, "Yeah, look at the Düzle MP, and he gives a speech to us to do it or to do it." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But it's the beginning of all of us. We're doing something that's gonna embarrass us in front of the reports in 30 years. That's half of our motions. He is responsible for the Justice and Development Party's adoption of a law that instead of the Civil Code 81, is the main law that cuts off negotiations in parliament. I wanted to make a statement to make a note of history. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0109par0048	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0110par0049	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0109par0050	Let me make it clear to the records that whatever procedures are set in accordance with the regulations of the Civil Code shall be followed. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0111par0052	Let's get him on the record. That statement is a lie. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0112par0055	That statement is a lie, yes.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0113par0059	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0114par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0113par0061	Mr. Halil, you have an alibi. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0114par0065	Mr. President, the French Le Point magazine has placed a picture of Mr. President on the cover of this week's issue, accusing itself of ethnic cleansing, and has written that Europe will not allow it. The French policy, which supports terrorism at every turn, claims in its mind that it defends the rights of our Kurdish brothers. Isn't France the one who organized them against us by taking the terrorists from Turkey to Syria when they invaded Syria? Isn't France the one who founded the Hoybun terror organization against our country, 1927, the Kurds and Armenian terrorists? Its former partners in Syria are aggressive and debauched when they are defeated by the Operation Peace Fountain of France, which is historically known for its ethnic cleansing in Central Africa. As long as Europe can't get away from this monestress mind and understanding, it's doomed to eat itself from the inside. Trust the friend of Turkey, and he will continue to give fear to the enemy.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0113par0070	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and propose that the 7th amendment of the 7th Amendment to the current Customs Act be changed in the following way. The first joke of Article 202 of Law 7-4458 has been redacted as follows. ▪ 1. Under customs regulations, a guarantee must be given to ensure payment of customs taxes and other amma-recessors, such guarantees are given by those who may or may not be responsible for the amount of taxes and other amma they will receive. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Feridun Bahshi Bedri Yaşar Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Yasin Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate because we don't have enough majority, Mr. President. It's Denizli MP Yasin Ozturk who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0115par0084	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Good PARTI Group on the Law Proposal to Change the Customs Law. I salute your high council. As I mentioned in my previous speech, customs is equal to foreign trade. If we want to exist in the world trade, we must first reduce bureaucracy and regulate legislation in this way. The trend of liberalisation observed in the world trade gradually leads countries to give up their former protection model. Today, the most prominent feature of the world trade is that countries give up their foreign policy of tariff and non-recipe, or tend to become softer. Therefore, foreign traders prefer reasonable taxes and minimum bureaucracy. However, the height of our country's bureaucracy and tax rates displays an image that could immediately deter a foreign investor from the world's trade index. See, our country is ranked 71st in the cross-border world trade. When they're ranking, they set some criteria. What's in these calculations? Let's look at the export data first. Customs period is 12.7 hours in OECD countries, 16 hours in our country; customs costs an average of 150 dollars in OECD countries, $376 in our country; documentation costs $35 in OECD countries, 87 in our country. I don't want to get into numbers. In short, there's a painting in our country that scares imports, too. Turkey is a costly country for a foreign investor, both time and money. Every country has to protect its merchant, but that's a choice. If you want, you can sit your economy on an import-based system, or you can put your product and your producer in the first place, or you can import and make your export high, but whatever the foreign trade goal, you have to reduce the bureaucracy and minimize the costs. What's the first step in this? There is no need to reinvent Rome; the world's advanced systems can be modeled. Switching to exports and imports, providing automation and simplifying legislation. Why should this be done? The re-entry of data in the export statement by the mover in the manual environment causes multiple inputs of data, repeated control, time loss and additional cost. On the other hand, transport companies face customs penalties in faulty data inputs. Creating automatic code for the use of export declaration in the approval phase and allowing export declaration data to be transferred automatically through this code will also prevent these errors and facilitate the system's functioning. Moreover, the length of the waiting period at the border crossings and the problems created by them must be arranged immediately. Simplification of the customs process, reducing bureaucracy, implementing inter-agency overtime and resolving differences are also measures that can be taken to ensure efficient use of time on its own. Expansion of customs fields for truck operations, increasing the number of platforms, shifting fuel stations to trucking areas outside the field, pre-designation of commercial vehicles to enter and exit should also be possible to complete customs operations on separate corridors. Dear lawmakers, the Trade Ministry announced exports and imports in June. The numbers are great. Our exports increased by 11.46 per month of the previous year in May to 16 billion, 813 million dollars; in the fifth month of 2019, our exports increased by 5.7 per cent to 76.6 billion dollars. The most remarkable aspect of the statement was that it was also the first five months of exports in our republic's history. Again, at the same time, our imports were reduced by 19.85 per cent to $18 billion, $588 million. If that's the case, it's a happy situation for our country. But as you all know, the common costs of all sectors are exposed to electricity, natural gas and needle fibers, while firms lock on the doors of tradesmen, while inflation is revealed to be 9%, every official number the government reveals is suspicious. It's the art of playing with statistics, that's true, but how right it is to mislead the public with statistics. If you import and export products into export numbers, you can't explain that we set a record in exports.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0116par0091	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0115par0092	The real record in exports is that only if you can sell out a product produced by the Turkish manufacturer with its own hard work. Dear lawmakers, there is no foreign trade without control. But you don't have to tolerate smugglers while you're concentrating on the trade of companies that are doing their job properly. The increase in monopoly products is the largest source of terrorist organizations' funding to promote cigarette smuggling. The border doors in the southeast aren't safe, they're like linoleum cotton. The ships don't have Turkish flags, and as soon as they're in international waters, other countries are out of line, and so is the procedure on the Tourism Minister's tour company's ships. That's why what we have to do is to nationalize our trade, make our flag waveable all over the world, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0117par0096	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement referred to in Article 7 of the Law Proposal shall be changed either in the form of, or in the form of the Customs Law. Süleyman Gülül Müzeyyen Şevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Bayır Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Turan Aydoğan Hüseyin Yıldız Aydın Özer Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate because we don't have sufficient majority. This is Aydın MP Süleyman Bulbül who wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0118par0111	Dear President, the esteemed MPs were declared State of Emergency on July 20, 2016 following the coup attempt on July 15, 2016. 37 laws were issued along with the State of Emergency. The number of these decrees began from 668 (701) and most importantly, the decisions of institutions on July 27, 2016, were exported by public officials, and were exported from many institutions outside of institutions by their superiors, such as civil service and activities against the national security of the state, such as general statements and actions against the national security of the state, such as statements and actions against the national security of the state. The biggest feature of these SECs, in order to be implemented during the state of emergency, was to be made arrangements for what was necessary, but, as you know, many substances from the TOKI to the winter tires have entered these KHKs. Of course, however, the provisions and practices of the KHK, which violated the rights and freedoms of the Constitution, violated the European Convention on Human Rights, the United Nations contracts, have been made, and many families have been victimised. In this framework, the essence of constitutional rights and freedoms has been touched, the principle of character of crime has been violated, the principle of innocence has been violated, without adequate investigations, heavy rights violations have been created, people's right to not be tainted by the Constitution, the right to access to the judiciary has been denied. So there was a civilian coup, thousands of people who were opposed to the power by the KHKs were fired, pushed out of economic life, locked away, banned abroad, their passports were cancelled, their emergency practices affected 2 million people, widespread rights violations and victims began to take place. With the State of Emergency, 125,678 people have been removed from public office, 131,922 measures have been carried out. 33,695 teachers published under the state of emergency were expelled, 5,740 academics and 405 peace academics were expelled, at least 46 Turkish Cypriots committed suicide due to pressure, despair, and difficult living conditions. The State of Emergency Review Commission, also presented as a cure for victims, has not been an effective application, but has become an obstruction of judicial applications for victims of rights. As of 29/8/2019, 126.200 applications have been submitted to the State of Emergency Commission, 6,700 admissions, 77.600 rejections have been made, while the number of applications in attendance remained at 40.900. Families were victims, justice was not served, justice was not heard. I'd like to give you guys some life examples. Burak Zechariah Altınok was killed the day before yesterday in the attack of terrorists. He was discharged as a police officer on the additional list of KHK No. 701 with the State of Emergency. He served 16 months in prison, was acquitted, got out, but was not returned to his profession, went to the army because he had no money, and became a martyr, and was sent on his last journey yesterday at Kayseri. His wife, Vildan Altinok, says: "My wife was pure. How can we describe the pain of her husband and her two children? What would your conscience say? What can you tell his 5-year-old son, Ahmet Eren, and his three-year-old son, Gökdeiz? How will you explain that your father was a member of the KHK, who had been acquitted and was unable to return to his post? What kind of conscience is that? What will you say if they say, "May your justice be ruined"? What are you gonna tell this kid? There's nothing to tell, guys. I'd like to give another example: Again, with KHK 675 of October 29, 2016, the representative of the Health and Social Services Union (SES) Malatya, former President Bkent Uçar, was discharged; he started working at the tea stove to take care of his family; he was laid off; he entered a private hospital; he was laid off as an excuse to be pressured; and on that day he went to İSKUR, and died of a heart attack, after a negative response. He died exactly two years ago, but on September 26, 2019, a month ago, the State of Emergency Commission decided to extradite him. His family was devastated.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0119par0118	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0118par0119	His family was devastated, but who cares? The Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Bakili Yıldırım, said that age burns alongside the rule. In the legal state, the right to a fair trial does not burn near the dry. In the state of law, he says, "Do not burn, but judge." What happened? The families were devastated. You didn't extradite them, the families were devastated, hungry and exposed. Guys, what's the solution? The solution is clear. The changes made in the State of Emergency and TCK, TMK and TMK (TMK) must be dealt with, ending the rights and violations of the State of Emergency for constitutional rights and freedoms. In this framework, the first law of the 27th Legislature must be revised as part of the continuation of the State of Emergency regime 7145. All HHR victims must be removed, or judicial reform will not be carried out without expediency due to the State of Emergency, justice will go on screaming, consciences will be silent, but justice will one day be questioned. Thank you all.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0120par0123	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0121par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Free trade zones are very important for exporting our country. Since 1985, 21 free trade zones have been established in Turkey since the release of the law that allowed the free trade zone in Turkey. The Antalya Free Trade Zone, which was number two, began its operation on 14 November 1987. Anthalya Free Trade District, currently operating in a 607.130 square metre area, is located within the District of Konyatın, Antalya. According to the Council of Ministers' decision to operate the Antalya Free Trade Region, 36 per cent of the remaining 64 per cent have been given to the public, and 64 per cent to the Antalya Free Trade District. On March 9th this year, our Minister of Commerce, Mr. Ruzar Pekcan, visited the Port of Antalya and the Free Trade Zone, studying the work and attended the meeting to enlarge the Port of Antalya and the Free Trade Region. We expect your support in this regard for our Antalya.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0120par0133	There are two motions on the 8th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law Proposal be reorganised in the following manner. Article 216 of the Law No. 8 - 4458 is redesigned as follows. 216-1. In the return of the collectable delay interest or delay hike due to the payment of the customs taxes and their payment, the interest is paid in the same period, which is calculated by Law 6183, from the date of the application to return the issue if the extra collection is due from the obligation, and from the date of the decision to return it from the collection date until further notice. 2. If the decision to return the decision is not carried out within three months of the notice, the interest is paid according to Article 6183 for the deadline of the notice date until the deadline of the notice date. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Yasin Özturk Ayhan Altıntaş İbrahim Halil Oral Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate because we don't have a majority, Mr. President. Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0122par0149	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment of the Customs Law on Article 8 of the Law Proposal. I salute you all. Article 8 of the law proposal organises the return of tax collectors, or companies, who are over-collected by customs administrations. In the current case, the administration was only paying taxes on the return process, but it wasn't paying interest for the duration. When the firms sued the issue, the Constitutional Court ruled that the firms were right, and decided that the tax amount should also be given interest. The error of the restitution is the error of the obligation, and the error of the customs administration from the date of its application for refunds is interest due to Law 6183 from the time the extra tax is collected. The interest is being paid in return to companies on notice. In short, the government will pay the company interest as they pay back the extra tax. Since this clause is in favor of the firms according to the Constitutional Court's decision, we have no objection to this clause, but the offer is not an offer that we fully support. Penalties issued in Articles 11 and 12 should be reassessed in the context of good faith, wronged, but not punished by well-intentioned taxpayers, although punished, should be kept as low as possible. The good intentions of the taxpayers who soon realized the error without any warning should be seen. This fine against good will lead the taxpayers to try to hide the error they are in, which should be avoided. The government's duty should be to support integrity and honesty. Likewise, uncertainty is involved in Article 17 (17). In many laws made by the government, the use of vague statements then presents difficulties. In current legislation, documents of customs advisers and customs assistants can be detained by customs officials. Today, there is no limit to this suspension, but there is a six-month limitation. We're taking this limitation very well. The point we will object to in this article is that it is necessary to be seen. In the event of the need to be seen as a vague expression, the meaning of what is meant should be specified as to which boundaries it is within. What grounds will cause the document to be suspended? If these are not specified, this concept is highly open to interpretation, occasionally causing malicious use. Our goal here is to prevent our citizens and our firms from becoming victims, but in this way people can live in peace in their work and in their daily lives. I invite our government to the public's economic agenda as soon as possible. As our people struggle with economic woes, shouldn't we give priority to unemployment, poverty, hunger? You remember, recently, TÜİK announced unemployment figures. According to official figures, unemployment increased by 3.1 points in July compared to the same month last year, and nearly 14 per cent. The number of unemployed increased by 1,65,000 people during this period and reached 4,600,000. According to official figures, the youth unemployment rate has increased by over 27 per cent, so according to official figures, about one out of three young people is unemployed. How can we hope for this youth? We're sad to see that recently unemployment has been increasing, and the authorized customs consultants in economic conditions have joined the unemployed army. In 2008, authorized customs consultants have established companies, employing hundreds of people, taking the authority to prepare foreign trade reports and oversee customs facilities, but the changes made by our ministry in Customs Administration of 3 January 2019 are being taken from both authorized customs consultants over 65 years of age and the companies they have established. I would like to invite the government to address the victimhood caused by this regulation immediately. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0123par0158	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement referred to in Article 8 of the Law Proposal shall be changed either in the form of, or in the form of the Customs Law. Tahsin Tarhan Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Özkan Yım Tacettin Bayır Hüseyin Star Turan Aydoğan Aydın Özer Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. It's Butler MP Ozkan Yimım who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0124par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. To my dear friends and all our fellow citizens who follow us, I offer my sincerest feelings of respect and love. I made a promise in Article 8 of the Law Proposal to Change Customs Law 104. Article 8 of the 8th article, as my predecessor friend stated -- customs officers -- is somehow related to the extra collection of numbers that have been miscalculated to both companies and individuals. We are absolutely supportive of this clause because we are always on the side of any law in the interests of our citizens. Now, of course, these extra collections need to be quick. These were the months, the years, and they need to come back as soon as possible. Of course, we stress in particular that this unfair tax is absolutely right to be given to our citizens along with the interest of this collection, and that it should be done immediately. Of course, that's what this stuff stands for. However, we do have a large number of customs officers living in the main country of Turkey. Now, there are 26 border crossings in Turkey. At these border crossings, we have a total of 16,175 customs officers, including 4,659, women, 11,516, men. So, what kind of problems do they have? Many have reached out to me over and over again, and when I meet with them, they have problems with the main three or four main lines. I'd like to underline them as we discuss them with this substance. For one thing, you know, the government will do it on the first hundred days before the June 2018 elections." he made a promise. Of course, what is this? In a hundred days, we'll remove 3600." They said. I call again from here to the government, to the court government, to the president of the EC PARTI and to Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan: stand by your promise. In a hundred days, we'll remove 3600." You said. And besides, you had a lot more words, but I especially want to stress that, get the 3600 into practice as soon as possible. We ask that 3600 be applied to our customs officers, one. Two: About 17,000 of our customs officers have no right to use any social facilities. They used to take advantage of the Department of Justice's social facilities, and unfortunately, they've been deprived of those rights for the past few years. For that reason, I specifically state that our citizens who work in customs need a social facility that they can use at least on their annual leave. And, you know, our friends in customs, our officers, they don't have a possible density, they work eight hours, nine hours, ten hours, 15 hours, 20 hours, even a full day. The slightest difference in these matters is not being paid, and I'd like to emphasize that. On the other hand, our customs officers -- like our other citizens -- are living in RITs, so they are living in retirement. These need to be fixed as soon as possible, like any other employee in retirement. And our customs officers are seriously at risk, just like our security guards. What is this? Customs, you know, they're dealing with all kinds of smugglers -- heroin, marijuana, tax evasion -- they're trying to smuggle their products in, and they're even trying to smuggle people in. For him, it's the safety of our employees. They can protect themselves during the time they're on duty, but even after they retire, I stress that the requirements are necessary to protect them and to protect them. Now, dear friends, of course we have other problems in our customs. Especially our movers friends, our fellow employers in the logistics industry in the transport... you know we export to Russia, especially in the fruit and vegetables. However, in the branch of vegetables and fruit, you know, there are what we call frigoriphic refrigerators, trailers and shipments. However, what we call "dozvola," which was given to Russia, the transports were 9 thousand. That wasn't enough last year, and this year, after my meetings with Mr. Transport Minister, the quota went up to 11,000. But still to Russia... if our economy is bad, I demand that this quota be raised to at least 20,000 -- not 11,000 -- in order to improve our economy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's the only way we can create a breeding Turkey. Thank you all.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0125par0188	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 9th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Here, read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law Proposal be reorganised in the following manner. The first joke (d) of Article 227 of Law 9-4458 was redesigned as follows. Other than incursive crimes, including aggravated imprisonment or more than five years in prison or trafficking, embezzlement, conflict, bribery, bribery, theft, fraud, abuse of trust, false bankruptcy, perjury, criminal conviction, defamation of official tenders and purchases, crime-related property, laundering, financing of terrorism, exposé of state secrets, public trafficking, tax trafficking, or attempting to smuggle tax evasion, and the violation of criminal acts, including crimes of 12/4/13/91, and crimes against terror and crimes against terror and crimes against terror. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel İştin Nuhoğlu Feridun Bahshi Yasin Özturk İbrahim Halil Oral Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Iştin Nuhoğlu wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0126par0205	Mr. President, I'm going to discuss the 9th Amendment to the Customs Law. I'll start by offering my regards. The conditions required to be an assistant customs consultant are included in the condition that he has not been convicted for crimes under the Anti-Terror Act and organised crime. Even though it's late, we think it's a proper change. Dear MPs, I'd like to dedicate this part of my speech to Operation Peace Fountain. As far as we can tell, Operation Fountain of Peace has been moved to deep freeze. The location of the Turkish Armed Forces has been circled, the YPG has been stopped from being a terrorist and has been transformed into a separatist political movement. We have fully supported this movement of the Turkish Armed Forces, and as a nation, we have shown unity and unity at the highest level. However, despite the considerable support given by those who run our country, we have not seen the particularly arrogant President of the United States of America and their stand upright against the delegation that has come to our country. The President of the United States had to fight like children in the schoolyard; I stopped, they fought, and then I separated the words from them. The Turkish nation does not like this attitude, although it shows its own personality and arrogance and bravado, which lacks state-of-the-art. We tore up the letter and threw it away. Everyone knows that such a reaction is meaningless, except for the few Justice and Development Party and supporting media. The letter must be answered by letter, and what is written in this letter must be revealed to the public. The President of the United States, who is famous for his tweets, should be responded in similar manner to those who concern us. Another stance is the way to negotiate with the Vice President of the United States, who heads the delegation to Ankara. In the thousands of years of Turkish state tradition, no Turkish president -- whether he was a kagan or Hakan, or a ruler, the king, the sultan or the President -- has not considered the vice president of other states equal to him, nor has he sat at the negotiating table at the same level. Wouldn't it be appropriate for the vice president to chair our delegation? You see, in these situations, dignity is not to be compromised. Dear lawmakers, we need to see and understand the friendship of the countries on the basis of Operation Fountain of Peace. With the decision to act, there were a number of governments we expected to send a message of friendship, and that was not the case when we were waiting for support. You can't go through these governments without talking about the two of them in particular. The first is the young country of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which is occupied by the presidency of the Republic of Northern Cyprus, the Annan Plan remnants, bloodless, soulless, ungrateful personality. Since I have not heard of your regret and apology, this person must leave his post and leave Cyprus. The other is Palestine, one of the top priorities of the Turkish state for many years. Those who ruled this state did not hesitate to stab the Turkish nation from behind, as it did a hundred years ago. I curse them, too. The rulers of the Arab countries, despite their Muslim people, have returned to the First World War by keeping their aghas in line. I also consider it a duty to thank all the countries of the Turkish world, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzistan, to express their friendship this time despite the European Union member Hungary, and the Arab Union. Dear lawmakers, we must consider this situation in every way that we have come to this agreement with Russia after and after the break of the Peace Fountain. Such issues as controlling the safe zone and gathering the weapons in the hands of terrorists should be carried out by the Turkish Armed Forces, while it is not possible to find the decision to be carried out along with Russia. The originally predicted safe zone would not be seen enough for Turkey's security. The entire region of Syria is safe.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0127par0215	Pick it up, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0126par0216	The basic requirement for regional stability is the territorial and political integrity of Syria, as stated in the text of understanding between the United States and the Russian Federation. The policy change needed to ensure this integrity must be done with courage. Plans to allocate to the PKK and its terrorist groups must definitely be broken. Our expectation as a sign of success for the Turkish nation is that Suleiman Shah Temple will return to its historic site, where its wounded spirit will be taken over. Dear lawmakers, I would like to remind you of a statement by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Great, which can rise with the advice of strangers, with the plans of strangers? History has not recorded such a situation. Until this action is concluded and returned, I pray to God to help all members of the Turkish Armed Forces, all of them, their homes, their homes, their loved ones, and their loved ones, safe and sound. May God bless and praise the Turk.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0128par0220	Amen.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0129par0221	Mr. President, for the record, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0128par0222	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0129par0223	Mr. Speaker, of course, they've come to their senses. I, for the record, have the understanding of the Syrian situation with both the United States and Russia. I would like to read this clear statement: "Russia and Turkey emphasize their commitment to fight all forms and manifestations of terrorism and to undermine separatist agendas in Syrian territory." It also says all YPG elements from Menbic and Tel Rifat will be removed with their weapons. The 7th article states that both sides will take the necessary measures to ensure the prevention of the infiltration of terrorist elements. So, along our entire borderline, I hope that this matter will be resolved together. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0128par0225	God help us. Let's hope our people succeed in this. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 9th article of the Customs Law Proposal shall be changed in the form of a prison or prison. Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Akin Müzeyyen Sevkin Tacettin Bayır Özcan Purçu Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Aydın Özer Hussein Yıldız Turan Aydoğan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Izmir MP Özcan Purçu wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0130par0241	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I give you all my regards. The heart would desire that one man should be the ministers of his regime, the bureaucrats, come, and stay away from the citizen. We, lawmakers, are the chosen ones of the citizens. We'll come back with the trouble we got from the citizen and we'll share it in the House. So, who am I supposed to share it with here? Who do I share it with? Is there a minister of one man's regime here? Tell who what? Citizen, the farmer says: I can't get gas, deputy! Can you call the Farm Bank for me to take a loan? The student who finished college says: "O deputy! I want a job. Someone says: "O deputy! I'm screwed, what am I going to do? Who am I going to tell? Thanks to you, it's like a wedding without a son-in-law. Now, do you know what damage we've seen in the last four years as a result of your single man -- this project of yours -- started in 2012? I'll tell you if you want me to. Look, in 2014 you launched this project, the one-man regime project. We can't see anyone, either. Between 2014 and 2019, Turkey fell from a $950 billion income to what? - It's down to $722 billion. Thanks to your regime, the Republic of Turkey has lost $228 billion. I'm telling you the same thing about the damage, the damage to this one man's regime; that's what caused the crisis. We're in crisis because of this system. Just so you know, we're the 16th country in the world that has given its citizens the highest inflation in 188 countries. Do you know how many files we have in the executive offices right now? The shopkeeper, the farmer, the officer, the worker, they're all in the gutter. We've got 22 million files, friends, in the executive offices, you know? Citizen, officer, worker, pensioner, thinks about what to eat today. He can't boil his pot, you know that? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Farmers go to jail, guys. He can't produce farmers. Under the success of a power, it comes to raising and producing qualified people. If you can create a country produced by your farmer, your industrialist, you're successful. You've sunk the farmer, you've sunk the industrialist, you've failed to raise qualified people. You've destroyed the training, too. You've changed the education system 15 times. We're a country of agriculture. In this Anatolian land, we live in an agricultural revolution; we live in a region. From 2003 to 2019, you imported $97.5 billion in agricultural products and animals. Shame on you! In a four-season country, you take corn, beans, buluru from the outside, take it from the outside and feed it to the citizens. What does the Minister of Agriculture do? Why doesn't he do the annual planning? Why doesn't it determine when to plant what product? Why doesn't he get all these bureaucrats, all these employees, the officer to plan and direct? Why won't he give me a job? Friends, let me tell you the shortcomings of this one-man regime: there are now 8.5 million unemployed in Turkey. Who's taking precautions, who's looking for a cure? Nobody. We are now, unfortunately, the world's 8th most expensive country. Look, I'll give you guys a statistic. Shame on you, you're putting a burden on a citizen, whatever you do! I'm waiting for the money, I'm waiting for the money in Ankara. What do you call me? Because you know why? You don't even have a minister here. Why doesn't the government's authority come, looking at an environment where the public defenders are talking about the problems of the citizens? (CHP cheers) It's a kind of government away from citizens. It's a one-man regime, I'm afraid. Look, you know what you did this year? The citizen thinks how to feed himself, look what you've done. In one year, you've raised the yield by 30 percent, the lemon by 29 percent, the garlic by 176 percent. This is the result of inflation. And I'll tell you what else you did.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0131par0254	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0130par0255	He's driving the national highway, and you've given him a 120 percent increase in transportation this year. Oh, my God! Did you raise the officer's salary by 120 percent, raise the pension by 120 percent, increase the employee's salary by 120 percent? I thought you said you were going to increase inflation rate to officer, worker, pensioner? You didn't keep his promise either. We're headed for disaster, and we're headed for disaster because of you. Take immediate precautions, try to get close to the citizen as soon as possible, create mechanisms to listen to the problems of the citizen in your last term. You've brought a minister on duty, and we can't see his face, and we can't see the duty minister. What's the sentry minister doing here when I can't talk about my problems, the citizen's problems? Was he sent to pursue your private business, Minister? Let him come over here and listen to the citizen's problem. And if he has to, if he's getting paid on people's taxes, he's going to listen to our problems here, the citizens' problems. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0131par0258	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 10th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the 10th article of the Law Proposal be rearranged in the following manner. The following jokes have been added to Article 231 of Law 10-4458. Three. These Sections and 12th Section provisions are carried out regarding administrative sanctions on customs taxes and objections to these decisions. 4. If the property is not found, the permanent value of the property will be passed on to the public. 5. In the event the customs administration gives the duty a written and false explanation, there will be no administrative fines or interest under these Sectional provisions. Feridun Bahshi Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Anthalya MP Feridun Bahshi wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0132par0276	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 10th Amendment to Customs Law 104. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, poverty is one of our country's most important agendas, described as being starved to provide for the basic needs of people to continue their lives. Unfair income distribution has become our country's biggest problem because of unfair income distribution, non-investigative economic policies, lack of employment, imbalance in income distribution, failure in general policies. One of the main reasons for poverty, perhaps most important, is unemployment, especially young unemployment, due to the failure to develop employment-enhancing policies. Even TİK figures show the highest unemployment rate in the history of the Republic. HOW reliable is the TIC, and we need to discuss it as well. TECHNIC data shows that in July unemployment data, the rate of young unemployed has increased by 7.2 points and has exceeded 27 per cent. The official number of unemployed has grown to 1,65 thousand people in just one year and reached 4 million 569. In July alone, unemployment increased by close to 1% in a month, compared to the previous month. Statistical data and research show that poverty and unemployment for a significant part of our population have become chronic and continues to increase. It is not possible for our citizens to experience this suffering if they are trying to live on welfare. It is imperative that the reality of poverty, which has its economic aspects as well as its sociological and psychological dimensions, be examined as a whole. According to the study results, it is imperative that the work of reducing poverty or destroying it should be taken so that the negatives caused by poverty can be eliminated. Dear lawmakers, customs and trade operations must be conducted without interruption and effectively in order for foreign trade actors to compete at both national and international levels. This is possible primarily with the thorough monitoring of customs practices, the establishment of the internal and external control systems and applications necessary for possible risks. Today, firms face serious risks because of the increasing complexity of customs and foreign trade transactions, constant changes in customs and foreign trade legislation, and mistakes in customs transactions. Expiration problems, for example: administrative fines received by customs authorities are time-outd with the passing of a period of time, but, however, one of the basic principles of the law, the statute of limitations is a riddle that even people who are busy with customs procedures cannot reach an agreement. Therefore, the statute of limitations is changing, depending on whether a penalty will be taxed or not, depending on which punishment will be taxed, which punishment is relative to which. Dear lawmakers, the jokes added to Article 231 of Law 4458 are intended to clarify the issues that have caused hesitation in the collection of customs taxes and fines. As the Constitutional Court has stressed in its decisions, the rule of law requires that law, legal norms be predictable, that individuals be able to trust the state in all actions and transactions, and that the state avoids such reassuring methods in law norms. The rule of legal security of the legal state must also maintain specificity in taxation. The principle of specificity requires that both the person and the administration be precise, and that the legal norms be arranged and implemented in a way that allows those concerned to predict the consequences of certain procedures under the current conditions. Instead of making a comprehensive, comprehensive, today-tested Customs Law amendment in line with the EU, this bill has long been severe and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a positive arrangement, which is not fully satisfied with the expectations, which are intended to address complaints that have been stressed to be devastating. I hereby salute the great Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0133par0287	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the proposed Customs Law shall be changed in the following way. Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Turan Aydoğan Tacettin Bayır Faruk Sarıaslan Hussein Yıldız Aydın Özer 4. If the property is not found, it is decided that the amount of customs taxes will be passed on to the public. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0134par0300	Mr. President, let's get the motive read.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0133par0301	I'm reading the reason: "CIF value of property for imports and customs taxes combined with FOB value for exports and customs taxes to be determined according to the international value agreement. It is intended to reduce the payment burden by using the amount of customs duties (e.g., the amount of payment) in the article instead of the amount of value that has been imposed on it. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Mr. Süleyman, please.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0135par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. Since five jerçer factories in Aydın Province, Söke district have been founded on first-class agricultural land, the operating licenses of factories have been revoked by the Ministry's order by order of the Council of Aydın Province on 16/10/2019 dates (2019/3). We'll be following the support premiums for about 25,000 tons of cotton from about 500 manufacturers who give cotton to five factories. I'd also like to ask the Minister of Environment and Urbanism: Are you going to show the sensitivity to first-class agricultural plants at geothermal power plants built on first-class farmland in Aydın? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0136par0317	The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers the 11th and 21st articles. Mr. Enez Kaplan, the Tekirdağ MP, will speak on behalf of the Good PARTY Group on the second part of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0137par0322	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our good PARTI Group on the second part of the Law Proposal to Change Customs Law. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as we have noted in our Commission, we have reservations about some of the articles of opposition, as well as generally seeing this proposal for amendments to the Customs Law in order to address the shortcomings of customs procedures and failures. Customs should be assessed in all economic and commercial activities, which organise international trade. However, for trade, it should have a more facilitating process than being a blocker for various reasons. In many countries outside of developed countries, the required legal surveillance can be made into foreign trade without the presence of customs, without making it difficult for the taxpayer. Customs are no longer particularly a blocker in developing world trade in developed countries, and Turkey must also leave. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are also obliged to take steps to improve the image of customs in the process of restructuring, facilitating trade in customs. We also expect various opportunities to correct mistakes made during customs. Again, it has been stated that the 12th article of the proposal will be fined four times its customs value in the event that administrative fines have been prescribed and the property has been banned, such as the 11th article. In this article, as in Article 11, the statement must be given to the person who has the right to make corrections before the decision of the administration must be given a 15-day period of notice and no criminal action shall be carried out during that period. So there will be an opportunity to correct the mistakes made by the manifesto. At the same time, we think efforts to reduce bureaucracy, regulate administrative fines in favor of both our country and our citizens would be useful for changing the bad image of our customs. Members of parliament, according to the 17th article of the proposal, it has been stated that customs advisors and customs assistants who have been acting contrary to the laws imposed on Customs Law and customs laws will not be allowed to pursue work in customs for the maximum amount of six months if permission documents are required by the Ministry of Commerce inspectors and the heads of customs and foreign trade districts. Misdemeanor is also a violation of the law, and it is a violation of the law to reduce value notification. The fact that such a large statement is included in the matter of the law suggests the possibility that all of the relevant officers may be granted authorization. Therefore, the framework for whether or not permission documents can be taken temporarily should be clearly drawn. Otherwise, this profession will become impossible. The victims of personal agreements should not be left at the mercy of those who control people's careers. A more specific understanding, such as acting contrary to the provisions of the law, is required to be replaced, rather than the terms of the terms of the agreement. When it comes to customs procedures and customs, we think it's a great flaw to pass through without mentioning the problems of the customs practice. It is inevitable that the customs advisory profession, which serves as a bridge between the state and the private sector, will seriously address the problems and restructure the sector. We think that the dissolution of the sector's information and image is important for the honor and future of the profession. Housekeeping activities requested by customs consultants are among the many issues you have promised to this nation and have not done. And it's very clear that this matter needs to be accelerated. Dear lawmakers, the biggest problems with customs are the problems with a second official institution. Example checks, for example, need to be done by the agricultural directorate or the environmental directorate, take an average of 15 or 20 days in a vehicle, truck, train, and ship's property control, approval, digitalized customs systems. This causes the malfunction, causing financial damage to customs firms. At the same time, some statements are requested digitally for the approval of the trade room. From time to time, this approval is observed as a matter of one second, while it lasts for hours or days. Once again, it is necessary for officers to approve or reject the declaration in any electronic setting as a result of electronic screening of other documents related to the declaration. But the fact that he wants the papers he sees on the screen printed also shows that some of our officers are not ready for electronic media. Members of parliament, the Customs Charter has stated that in Article 196, which items are required to be tested in entry into Turkey, in which case they will only be referred as samples, in which cases the precedent analysis reports will be accepted, while in some customs there are procedures against regulations, and that the charge is being provided to benefit from the taxpayers on the grounds that they will be tested. Customs has also been informed that there have been problems with analysis and analysis. I stress once again that Turkey needs to work on the modernisation of our customs in terms of the development of its foreign trade, to bring together all the relevant sections to discuss problems on the common platform. Once again, I would like to remind you that our customs writer, Mr. Ihab Subaş, said: "The customs are the honour gate of a country." Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address another matter briefly. If the presidency comes, the economy will be blown away. People are drowning in the cost of life, the lack of livelihood. People want food, people want jobs, people want bread. We're Europe's 1st in power. The word is stuck in the air. Let it be that in this fertile land, in my beautiful land, the people could not feed themselves. We import wheat, red meat, and live animals, cotton, corn, almost all food products, and we even import hay. To feed the citizen, he became miserable in the queues to get a little cheaper food. You have called it, unfortunately, the tail of existence. Your Minister for Economics has announced the New Economy Programme. Again, nothing has changed; the burden is on the officer, the worker, the farmer, the shopkeeper, the employee, the nation. The same Mr. Minister said in one of his recent talks on economics, it would be better than April March. April has passed, May has passed, leave it, summer has passed, but nothing has been better, or worse. TÜİK recently announced that the inflation rate for September fell into one household. The relevant minister said the target was both in TÜFE, and in TFE. He stated that there was progress in the fight against inflation, but unfortunately, the same evening the electricity had a 14.9% increase, and today we wake up with news of a raise. Congressmans, I wish you the best for our country and our nation to change the Customs Law, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0138par0334	İstanbul MP Özgür Karabat on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Karabat.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0139par0337	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the second part of the Customs Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the law proposal that we are discussing does not appear to be an offer to solve problems in customs, not to contribute to international trade, not to effectively block the fight against trafficking, not to increase exports, not to increase exports, not to improve industry, not to increase production. None of this is gonna happen. So, what happens with this bill? Some articles will increase sentences, some will be reduced, everything will be taken care of, as well as the pension of customs officers will be removed after retirement. Dear lawmakers, as you know, in the new system, law proposals are now being prepared by lawmakers, not by ministers. In this case, more specific solutions will be produced to the needs of the citizens. At this point, we have 86 members of lawmakers who have prepared the proposal and signed it, but we are sad to observe that many have contributed only by signing the proposal. When the proposal for the Customs Law came to the Industrial Commission, we also understood what is really called the new system. We understand that no one has been asked, no one has been interviewed, and the MPs have been given a notary duty. Today, when you ask anyone, people think of taxes or punishment in our country. If hundreds of trucks are kept in customs in Saudi Arabia, where you knock on their door at every opportunity, because they're from Turkey, there's a problem here, dear friends, if millions of euros worth of cars in Turkey's carrier industry can't enter the market as a result of wrong practices. That's not the only problem, I'd like to address a current problem, dear friends, we don't want to bring it to the mouthwash. We'd like to present the Hajdarpaşa Station and Sirkeci Station to Turkey's public attention. We would like to share with the public the regret of witnessing a questionable tender in front of Turkey about Haydarpaşa and Sirkeci Gari. İstanbul Metropolitan Mayor Ekrem Imamoglu used his statement in response to the relevant minister. In fact, I'd like to make a call to the entire Parliament from here, dear friends: In view of this tender, we must share with you the need to know a little bit about Istanbul. Of course, to get to know Istanbul, not only should you read the presidential decrees; you need to know some history, you need to have a conscience. If that happens, we need to know that a city is not just buildings, but a city has a soul, and it has nothing to do with the salt spirit. If a city is a small city, what gives its soul is its history, its squares. Every city has its square, its doves representing freedom in that square, and we all know its famous crazies. So dear friends become cities with a city's history, not just their buildings. We can't understand Istanbul if we only approach it with a sense of interest, as the minister did. Dear friends, Haydarpaşa and Sirkeci Station are a memory, but it's also a memory of millions of people; it's not just a station, it's not just a building; it's witnessed countless historical events. After the Battle of Salvation, the Vinegar witnessed the immigrants from the Balkans, a memory of all of us. An old uncle tells me, I got off a train coming from the station of the Vinegar, and I remember it every time I came here. No one has the right to destroy this memory, this memory. No doubt public enterprises are best suited to this memory. If it's in Istanbul, it's best to have the mayorate of Istanbul, dear friends. I invite you all to give it some thought. In the poem of Nazim Hikmet, it says: At Haydarpaşa station, in the spring of 1941, it is fifteen o'clock. On the stairs, the sun, the fatigue and the excitement. A man is standing on the stairs thinking of something. Now, you all think, dear friends, that the man who thinks may be your mother, perhaps your father, perhaps your childhood; look back down the stairs at Haydarpaşa Station and look back at the clock there; make a conscience. That clock keeps spinning, but if you want that clock to also turn for you, dear friends, give up that decision quickly, with a conscience. Otherwise, for time, otherwise, time and time will stop for you, dear friends. I'd like to share this with you. He thinks there will be a child coming from Anatolia who is unemployed at the Haydarpaşa station. He is Haydarpaşa Station, Sirkeci Garı is in many Turkish films. The whole story begins there in Turkish films, in Haydarpaşa Station. We know where this guy is looking, where we know where he is, where we know the CIA, where we all have childhood and youth, Haydarpaşa Station. Kids are a bit naive, young people are idealists. I now call on the ruling lawmakers to think of the idealist of their youth, dear friends. Surely our ruling party MPs have a conscience -- of course -- but it's not enough just to have a conscience; you have to have some courage, you have to have words, you have to be brave. If we sum up the situation clearly, dear friends of Attila Ilhan. As he said in his poem, Sirkeci Garı was stabbed with the screams of a train, and Haydarpaşa Station was in the smoke of suicide. I'm saying this on purpose. Why is it in smoke? Do you remember the fires at Haydarpaşa Station? We all remember these fires. Well, then what did we say to the public? We all asked, "What do they want to do here? Is there going to be a hotel instead of a Haydarpaşa station?" Now, I'm expanding the question a little bit: our friend who bought this place, the firm who took this tender, the Land Equipment Office next to Gar Nah, and the re-tased building, and when we think about the overpasses over there right now, I wonder if he'll take the Earth Mahullar Office and land and do something else here, and I ask all the people of Turkey and your conscience. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And I'm asking you another question: is it a coincidence that there are two other firms at the address of the firm that received this tender, and it's a coincidence that both firms are employed by the Transport Ministry, and they're employed by the Metropolitan and they're involved with the Energy Ministry and the Archers Foundation? Now, the tender has been canceled because of the fact that there was another word being used in place of the word "multiple" and I'll tell you who's in particular and who are responsible, my dear friends. Of course, the Ministry of Transport is responsible, dear friends, and, of course, the AKP Group is responsible and co-involved because your friend, who has received the tender, is also a member of the Governing Body of the Permanent Education Centre of the AKP. Therefore, you can't afford it, dear friends. Stop shooting arrows at people's history, keep people's history, keep our history. Look, I'll give you an example of our apocalypse, Sultan II. There is a inscription in the temple of Abdulhamit, and in its name, that says at Garıci the Vinegar, that he commanded the nation, that he might build this hearty station for the railroad. ▪ Heart - drawing station, dear friends. And as you call it, don't be brokenhearted, and be merciful, and look, our king says, "Do not betray your history." Sultan Abdulaziz says: "Let there be a railway for my country, or let it pass me by my back, I will accept it." [[Applause from CHP rows]] And now, when does he say that? The Rumeli railway line says it when it is extended from Topkapi to vinegar, and gives the palace's gardens to the railway. Now, what are you doing, dear friends? You're delivering people's memories to the palace. Is that right, dear friends? [[Applause from CHP rows]] You want to deliver the people's gardens to the palace, and it's not right, we're turning them over to your consciences, dear friends. One more thing, dear friends, I appeal to your conscience. No doubt you'll say, "Long live the king!" But I'm still calling. As the poet says, I know you won't come, but I expect you every year as if you're coming back today. If there is, I speak to your consciences, dear friends. I'd like to tell you another memory: the Station of Haydarpaşa; Mustafa Kemal Ataturk Haydarpaşa Garı, who sees invading fleets and goes as they came from Haydarpaşa Station. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I have another moment, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0140par0368	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0139par0369	Now, we know this nation has told you to go. So once again, we appeal to your conscience. No doubt, dear friends, in all Turkish films, the Haydarpaşa Station is the moment of our meeting, the moment of our farewell. Istanbul has met with Ekrem Imamoglu and his new generation of municipalism, and do not choose this: rather than meet with this nation, do not choose to say goodbye to this nation. Sit down and think about the Hajdarpaşa Station, and my advice to you, dear friends, is to read and decide more about history than the presidential decrees. Thank you all, thank you, exist.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0141par0372	Bravo Free President, you taught the AKP.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0373	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0143par0374	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0377	Thank you, Mr. President. A few moments ago on the stand, there was an attempt on the Haydarpaşa Station to taunt our group, and a statement was made that they were most likely responsible. Yes, I'd like to point out that for three days, it's been being brought up, like a piece of rice. It's about other things -- trying to get messages out of other things and create a perception -- perception is another, the truth is another, it's a different phenomenon. So, in this regard, our Minister of Transport has made the necessary statement. He's got his contacts, and he's been court-martialed. The verdict will be made. In the old days, during the AK PARTY, the Metropolitan Municipality made demands for these locations, and then the Ministry of Transport didn't give them these locations. Now he's wanted, he hasn't given; this time the Imamoglu says: I'll take it; Zoraki, I'll take it.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0381	You have given them to relatives, you have given them to relatives, you have given them to relatives of the AK PARTY; explain them to them.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0382	But there's still a Metropolitan administration that can't get the case filed.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0383	You gave it to the man who was paid 3,000 lira. It's a mugging, it's a mugging!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0384	There's a government that doesn't know the law. There's a government that can't prepare the case. In the same way, even though he bids less than 100,000 liras, you're not going to give any more to the bidder; I'm the city, I've given less, you're going to give it to me.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0385	You will give a child, a 30-year-old boy, the tender, the most precious place in Istanbul...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0386	Now, as a result, dear friends, look, you know what the real truth is?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0387	See who's a spoilsport, see who's a spoilsport.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0388	Look, we're opening the Kemerburgaz City Forest, which was once finished in the AK PARTI era, and that's where I've been traveling myself, not to immigration, but to the public.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0390	We're the Republic of Tossun, we're the Republic of Toss! You run like Mehmet Aydın.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0391	...trying to manage a perception, but it was finished in the time of Mevlüt Uysal Bey.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0392	What do you have to do with Mehmet Aydın? What is the difference between you and Farm Bank?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0393	On the other hand, there's a Metropolitan Municipality administration in Beşiktaş Obelikatat, which tenders these trees instead of these trees, but that's what stopped the Metropolitan Assembly and turned that green into a parking lot.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0394	Tough job, tough job. It's hard for you to defend a scumbag like that, it's hard for you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0395	Yes, in fact, it is the CHP Metropolitan Municipality who wants to build the greenery and build the park.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0396	It's not easy to defend such insolence!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0397	At the same time, you know, the Mayor's office, Mr. Imamoglu, had the trucks lined up for Yenikapı.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0398	Cars, cars.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0399	It's a waste. He said it was a waste. And then he went out with the old money to a tender over a trillion dollars.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0401	Well, it's not easy defending this corruption, this injustice.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0402	And by continuing the means he called them.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0403	Come to Haydarpaşa, Haydarpaşaya! The train is leaving, come to Haydarpaşa!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0404	Therefore, in this regard, to your own conscience, both the perception management, the lies of Imamoglu, and these days...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0405	Come to the farm! Tell me, did you or did you not give the three thousand-dollar payday boy a whole ranch?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0406	Ask your consciences about the approach regarding Cyprus, which the CHP's İzmir Municipality has done, which is insulting to our Mehmetçik, Turkey.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0144par0408	Tosuna, did you or did you not give it to the young man? Tell me if you gave it to the boy or not.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0145par0409	You're talking nonsense!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0142par0410	Yes, as a result, this Bronze Soyer says, "Tunç Soyer, the elephants kick." I'm asking you how you're going to respond to the Tunc Soyer, who was a martyr of the time that Erbakan the late Ecevit and Ecevit were together when they made the Cypriot Peace Movement. Yeah...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0146par0413	Does anyone understand you?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0145par0414	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0147par0415	Answer the bully, the young man.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0145par0416	Why don't you shut up and we'll hear him out?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0147par0417	Answer the bully. Farm republic! You've passed the toast, young man! You've passed Mehmet Aydın.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0148par0418	Ali, don't be a hard-working congressman like you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0149par0419	What can I do, Mr. President? He's always talking.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0148par0420	Oh, come on! Veli Baba, don't make such a big deal out of it, Veli Baba.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0150par0422	Mr. President, Mehmet Aydın..
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0148par0423	Papa Veli, don't talk, don't talk.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0150par0424	They gave a 30-year-old boy the most valuable properties of Turkey's land, and they went after him. How can we not say it?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0148par0425	The Deputy Director of the Group wants a word. Dear Private...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0151par0427	You're just saying slogans, it's nothing. Talk, talk, talk. You don't know how to listen, you talk.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0148par0428	The Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group wants a word. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0152par0430	Mr. President, when I'm given the votes, the national will says, when I'm not given the will...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0153par0431	Not at all.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0152par0432	Listen! I've listened to you, you'll listen!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0153par0433	It's not like that.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0154par0434	Where did you listen, you didn't listen! The guy kept screaming from there. Didn't the Agha scream in there? Why is he yelling?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0155par0435	And you're yelling.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0156par0436	13.600 votes...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0157par0437	Wait a minute, Mr. Free, wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0158par0438	You made me scream, but there's our Deputy Group President talking. Why didn't you shut him up?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0157par0439	What are you talking about, Congressman? Congressman... what about this?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0158par0440	When the President was speaking earlier, he shouted from there.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0157par0441	Yeah, well, you've got the Deputy Director of the Group, he'll answer, wait, be patient. With that yelling...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0159par0442	Guys, I'll give you the answer.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0158par0443	When the deputy president of the group was talking, there was Veli Ağbaba yelling.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0157par0444	I told him, I told Veli Bey.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0160par0445	Mr. Veli is telling the truth.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0161par0446	Dear friends, I'll answer, so let's relax. Come in, we're listening, come in...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0162par0448	You'll know how to listen!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0161par0449	Let's hear it with courtesy.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0162par0450	No manners.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0163par0451	Friends, I have also told Veli Bey, and I have told Ali Bey, and I say to you, it is not possible to get results by shouting and shouting. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0164par0454	Mr. President, this is understanding that opposes the will of Istanbul. This is the understanding of the decision of the elected mayor, which opposes the decision made by the province of Istanbul; the understanding of the Istanbul voter; the understanding of the election that has been cancelled by pressure on the judiciary when there is a 13.600 difference; the understanding that eats the 806 grand difference from the Istanbul people three months later and eats the democratic slap, but is not wise. Do you know what that understanding does, Mr. President? This understanding prepares a change in the City's Law, pays taxes on property taxes on the way to the municipality and puts it in the general budget, so that the opportunities to serve in the hands of the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality CHP will be eliminated. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is the understanding that when municipalities are trying to increase the city's income while they are at its disposal, when municipalities are out of their hands, as if that municipality does not serve 16 million Istanbulers, they try to narrow down its resources and punish Istanbul's people through Imamoglu. This is the understanding that has not been able to respond to Trump's letter for three days, that makes him tremble, that makes him jealous; now, take in his hand what Soyer said two and a half years ago, and answer him. The understanding that is overwhelmed by the historical and current tests of Free Karabat. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, this understanding cannot answer: Do they give the Haydarpaşa Garı, or the buildings in France, Italy, the cities in England, and the squares in front of them to those municipalities, or do they give them to the foundations of the current Prime Minister's son, who rules Macron, or England? When such a square is run in Turkey, a municipality comes up to claim such a place, and says, "I want it." Those who rule the country and the city will leave it to the municipality if they love it. But what are you doing? He couldn't defeat the Imamoglu; the minister, the mighty Prime Minister, you put in the Speaker of Parliament, he couldn't. Now, through a family rule order, you're giving a trillion-dollar tender to the man you consider worthy of a 3,000-dollar salary when the Istanbul municipality is your property, who has been the general manager of the foundation that the boy runs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President. So, how do we give this contract? Istanbul Metropolitan Cultural Asş wants to invest in culture and history to bring that square to that city, give it to the General Manager of the Archers Foundation, how do you handle Imamoglu? He wrote the Turkish language of the words "investigative" and you ignore it, and you say in the parliament, where you see it, in the people's place, where you see it, is it the lower one... when the next tender phase of the bidding is being called by the parties and auctioned off, while you call on him and hand him over to the highest bidder, and you say, "You're the only one left." If Culture was there for Istanbul's sake, that side of the square, that pawn...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0165par0463	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0164par0464	I'm ending it, Mr. President, the end. You're arguing to give those squares to the dynasty, to the boy, to the groom, to the man who was paid $3,000 as your subcontractor, to the man who was your pawn. I know how many trillions of inventory there are. In the first election, you're going to get a slap in the face of a democratic slap from Istanbul, and you're going to get a conviction.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0166par0467	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0167par0468	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0168par0469	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0167par0470	Congressman, what are you going to add to what Free Bey has told you? I'm asking you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0169par0471	They already know how to rest, so listen.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0168par0472	Now, here's the thing.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0167par0473	Mr. Ozgur told me everything.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0168par0474	He didn't answer what I said, so he told me that I was lying. I'd like to make a brief statement. He didn't explain why he was being bullied in any way.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0167par0475	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0168par0477	Now, Mr. Group Deputy President has held us responsible and jointly responsible for our group. He has made a promise but never mentioned it here. The reason, I suppose, was that I mentioned that the owners of the firm that received the tender and the firm that bought the temple were also members of the AKP, so I talked about a joint and mutual responsibility here. There's no mention of this at all, I'd like to point out. Beyond that, he spoke of trucks as he promised, but today, for example, at an auction -- I don't know if he followed it -- only one vehicle was sold for $500,000, at the auction at today's KIPTAS. Therefore, it is important to look after public resources. Second: He showed a picture of the green field, and Beşiktaş showed a photograph. Now the question I want to ask is, there's an zoning field there, and they want to be turned into a green area. So, who organized this zoning site before? That's the first one. That's what we need to ask. Second, he spoke of the concerned mayor, Mr. Mevlüt Uysal. Mr. Mevlüt...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0170par0482	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0171par0484	Thank you, Mr. President. We've just heard stories from La Fontaine. He tried to cover it up with the porter, yes...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0172par0486	I'm afraid the truth is painful.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0171par0487	Now, look, a fact that is reflected in all the press: the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor is making a tender of $1,152,810 for three months from his own company, which he has appointed from a company as Secretary-General.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0173par0488	Department of Transport.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0171par0489	I thought it was a waste of tools. His tender is here, yes. As a result, dear friends, I've made it perfectly clear what I just said, it's all in the record.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0174par0491	Answer Haydarpaşa.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0171par0492	They're the main issue in the story, about this young country, Cyprus, one of Turkey's most sensitive issues, one of its red lines.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0174par0494	Come to Haydarpaşa!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0175par0495	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0171par0496	I said that two years ago, when the CHP Mayor of Metropolitan City, who made the tornado, who really hurt and insulted our martyrs, Mehmetçik, and Turkey, made it clear that on October 14th, his lie was revealed. Are you, now, going to attempt or not to launch an apology and disciplinary investigation into your own member and mayor, who has made such serious accusations against our martyrs, about Cyprus, as well as describing Turkey as "sympathetic elephants"?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0174par0498	Come to Haydarpaşa!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0176par0499	What's that got to do with it? Haydarpaşa tells us something else so he won't come to the station.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0177par0500	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0178par0501	Yes, Mr. Free, let's move on to our main agenda with your speech. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0177par0504	Mr. President, I'm not asking you to extend a minute, but I'm telling you, our inability has turned into a conviction. They're caught red-handed on the Haydarpaşa case, running through the crappy bottoms. They've already been sneaking around. From God, Imamoglu came and put the stick in the wheel, and after this time he did not give you the rights of the Istanbulite, nor in the groom, nor in the boy. You can't answer that, and you can come up with the expression of Tunç Soyer, and you can bet on the Bronze Soyer.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0179par0506	I got it.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0177par0507	You'll get all the answers, but I won't let you cover up for what you failed to answer about Haydarpaşa and you've been humiliated, brother, see this.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0179par0509	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0180par0510	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0177par0511	Come on, I'll challenge you to a duel in a minute.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0179par0513	Thank you very much, my dear President. In order to escape the mat, you're taking Haydarpaşa because you can't answer the words of Bronze Soyer, but...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0181par0515	Haydar, Haydar!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0182par0516	It's all about Haydarpaşa. It's about Haydarpaşa.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0179par0517	We have spoken of Haydarpaşa. And even though the city's mayor's inept with the fact that he's incapable of making files, and he's certainly offered less in his bids...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0183par0518	There are no less offers.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0179par0519	...it's obviously left to a firm that offers higher bids. It's also a matter that has been brought to court, and everyone will respect the judgment.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0184par0521	Mr. President, why don't you step in?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0179par0522	Haydarpaşa Station is a matter of law and trial. It's going to come out, everybody's going to say good-bye. However... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0185par0525	He doesn't know how to negotiate. Mr. President, it's a negotiation.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0186par0526	Shame!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0179par0527	Yes, however, dear friends, look, there's been talk about the activities that the municipalities have done and so on. Earlier speakers of Cyprus referenced it. I'm asking you how you feel about this news in today and yesterday's newspapers, about the fact that you're trying to attract the city's resources at another point and that it's actually about our red lines, politically, about Ecevit and Erbakan, and about Mehmetçik.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0187par0528	Haydar, Haydar!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0188par0529	Dear lawmakers, the group's vice presidents have expressed their own opinion, but there's nothing more to be said about the same matter than over and over again.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0189par0530	I'm on the same page.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0190par0531	Waiting for an answer, waiting for an apology from Bronze Soyer.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0189par0532	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0191par0533	So in my opinion, Mr. Free, let's wrap this up in a minute before we get an answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0189par0536	Mr. President, the Republican People's Party is an opposition party, and they have orators who use the bench effectively. Free Karabat, like friends before and others after, spoke to the bench -- the recognised rights -- and sat Haydarpaşa on the agenda of the House like a bomb yesterday and the day before, like lions. There's not a single answer. You have the right to speak in front of you. You put one Izmir MP on the stand, and he'll bring it up, and I'll give you the answer on the Bronze Soyer issue, but I'm not the rookie who's going to take the bait, you can't cover up Haydarpaşa's mess by changing the agenda.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0192par0538	You'd have given it to me by now, but you couldn't answer.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0189par0539	Go talk to him.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0193par0543	Yes, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak. You also have a request for a statement on behalf of the individuals. Your Grace, I'm combining your speech time. Your time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0194par0547	Dear President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Party for Action Group and myself over the second chapter of the Law Proposal to Change the Customs Law. I salute our Veteran Assembly. Precious lawmakers have been more effective and inclusive to implement the implementation of exports and imports, customs services and trade policies, as the Ministry of Trade and Customs and Trade is merged into the government's system. Thus, in the framework of effective and dynamic policies followed by the Ministry of Commerce, operations have been accelerated and costs have been reduced by the combined technical, implementation and legislation of operations carried out by the Ministry. The Ministry of Trade continues effectively in its efforts to promote and develop the principles, aims and policies of exports and imports, development plans and annual programmes, and especially to organise exports for the benefit of the country's economy within these policies. In addition, studies aimed at the speed, security and quality of customs services, digitizing and simplifying customs are being carried out quickly in customs. In this scope, for example, state aid for exports has been increased, effective audits have been conducted as part of the fight against trafficking, electronic processing of foreign trade documents has been launched, security letters in the paper environment have been moved to electronic media. The 459 reliable institutions have been certified authorized to provide some ease and privileges in customs transactions. All processes related to export operations have been conducted electronically, the Container and Harbor Tracking System has been implemented in some ports, and the Free Zone Information System, the SEBIS, has been implemented in all free zones. The pre-existing customs project has been implemented. There have been studies to meet demands that the penalties in Customs Law on many platforms should be proportional to the actual verb, to remove the hesitations faced in the implementation of the law and to remove the obstacles in front of our exporters, as well as the sensitivity of the Nationalist Movement Party on this issue. In this regard, the Law on Customs Law and Firearms and Other Tools to ensure that customs procedures are conducted more effectively has been prepared. Dear lawmakers, in this proposal, it aims to ensure fairness by considering the weight of the verb in accordance with today's economic conditions, by reevaluating procedures for administrative fines in the Customs Law. Customs has gone to organise liquidation provisions in order to make the goods more effective than the liquidation process. As collateral implementation is an essential component of many customs procedures, the implementation of more than 20 per cent of guarantees should be taken under customs administration has been lifted from force and is intended to reduce the cost of transactions in today's economic conditions. The transit regime has made clear the financial responsibility for the rights holder's right to the customs administration, as we call it, and the measure of whether or not there is a verb in the determination of his criminal responsibility has been made. Since the Undersecretary of Mülga Defence Industry has been tied to the office of the President, the Defence Industrial Presidency is among the institutions that will apply customs exemption to the imported property that ensures the removal of hesitations in the implementation. The obligations of the rule on the return of over-responsible tax fees are not paid by the Constitutional Court for a period of depriving interest benefits and the extra collection will be repaid by the Customs Act on the grounds that it causes the balance between individual benefits and its customs duties and on the basis of their payment of their payment. The interest will be paid by the authorities to extra-responsible on the payment of the charge due to the payment of tariffs or delay hikes. The burden of reconciliation is a process between the obligation and the administration aimed at resolving the conflict faster, or it is intended to give up the right to be on trial or to be granted the right to demand a compromise, as long as the appeal is inconclusive. In addition, the deadline for the implementation of delay interest is more specific than the amount of time that will be calculated as a result of the settlement. With the provision of Law 6136, our personnel with the authority to carry arms were allowed to acquire their weapons as weapons in other law enforcement agencies and to obtain a weapons license without paying tuition in retirement. For this reason and so many other reasons, I hope that our proposal for the law will be good for our country, for our nation. Dear lawmakers, the Operation Peace Fountain, which our Turkish Armed Forces launched on October 9, 2019, at sixteen hours, have been cleared of terror in northern Syria. The operation was carried out in accordance with the rights of our country due to international law, particularly the decisions to fight terrorism, and the right to self-defense under Article 51 of the United Nations contract. As with Operation Firat Shield and Operation Olive Branch, the planning and execution of the operation was aimed at only and only treacherous terrorists and shelters, shelters, weapons, tools, and equipment. All attention, care and precision have been shown in the area of civil and innocent people, in terms of historical, cultural, religious structures, infrastructure facilities, and possible non-violence elements in the region. To ensure the safety of our borders, to prevent a corridor of terror in the south of our borders, to bring our thanks to our heroes, Mehmetchiks, who have fought against our martyrs in order to neutralize all terrorist organizations and terrorists who pose a threat to our safety, to ensure the proper conditions for their return to the homes and lands of the displaced Syrians, to our veterans in this sense, to give our thanks, to God's mercy, to our martyrs, to their families, to their long, healthy lives. Operation Peace Fountain and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), YPG and all terrorist elements were involved, destroyed, disbanded, weapons taken, abused people were rescued from the organisation -- initially, Kerkuk, Iraq -- were prevented from producing new influences by infiltrating controversial areas. Operation Fountain of Peace has also caused massive echoes and fluctuations in the global conjunctural. In the face of all the dirty work that global gangs have done on our country -- our leader, Mr. State Gardener, has also read the square of the entire global gangs -- along with the warning of a secure zone in the east of Fırat for many years -- that should have been established in the form of a crescent. Global forces who feared and hesitated the possible consequences of the operation had to sit at the table with Turkey. Even in such a delicate environment with both global powers, it is meaningful, valuable, and important. In this respect, the different interpretations of this action are an insult to our Mehmetdjik, to all our security forces, not just to our Mehmetchik, but to all our security forces, who have sacrificed their lives for the sake of a gravel on this land, who have shielded his body against the weapons, who have defended his body against the terrorist organizations. (MHP and AK PARTY) As our leader, Mr. State Gardener put it, the crescent must rise to the east of Fırat, and it will not be used to living with terrorism. Praise be to Allah, the crescent is raised, and praise be to Him, the star of the moon, and the flag of the stars is blown away. (MHP and AK PARTY) On this occasion, may God give strength and strength to all our security forces, our soldiers, our security officers, our guards. In the fight against terrorism, as volunteers for years without a salary from the state, I would like to welcome our heroes, who have determined their ranks from the state even though the PKK is under a very intense threat, especially in Southeast Anatolian geography, who have been allowed to leave their countless children at home, and who have carried out their duties as security guards. The struggle that has been waged here, of course, with our Turkish Armed Forces, as well as our Turkish Armed Forces, our Special Forces of the Police, our Special Forces of the Police, our Special Forces of the Police, and our rangers along with them, and our guards across the border have also been sent to defend themselves. Twenty-six years apart -- I'd like to give you some detailed information about our protectors -- we have rangers who are father-to-son martyrs at the same age, who are also martyrs, and we all actually have to sample them and see: Look, it's very difficult to fight terrorism, but it's also very easy on the one hand. You do it as a state policy, but there's only one word that comes out of everyone who goes to that fight: we're going to the wedding. We're going to Kızillma. It's also a heart's job to go on that journey knowing that you won't be able to go to her mother, knowing that you won't be reunited with her sister, knowing that you won't be able to go to her father, knowing that you have no return in that sense. The value of the struggle that has been fought in this respect is very important to our security guards, for all of our Mehmets who are fighting there and for all of our law enforcement agencies. Our Rangers, as the National Party of Action, have no separate laws, and we think that even though the number is not a very high number, it should be regulated by absolute and absolute law. In this matter, the proposed law requires the regulation of a ranger's law and pay arrangements, especially in this sense, for their rights. And I believe that our proposal for the law on this matter will be carried out with the Cumhur Alliance and with the same sensitivity as all our fellow MPs.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0195par0559	Ms. Arzu, we'll be there for you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0194par0560	And in that respect, we think the law proposal we brought in specifically regarding our security guards is valuable. Look, there's one thing that's very important: I want to divide our country over ethnic elements, and I want to address those who want to try to divide the Turkish nation. At the moment, along with the Turkish military, mostly Kurdish-rooted rangers, he was there to help Kurds who had actually been persecuted by the PKK, where he rescued them. When your mother looks into our soldier's eyes and sees you facing a savior angel, there's no way she's not really impressed. This process is very important in this regard. May my Lord keep the union of the Turkish nation forever, so that my Lord doesn't disturb the uniter structure of our state. We will not deliver a pebble to a traitor, nor will we deliver a pebble to the PKK. And whosoever is behind them, and whosoever speaketh in their tongues, then they are not. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0196par0564	No further requests on behalf of individuals There is no request for a QA. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, if there are any substances in the second section, I'll submit them to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0197par0571	I thank you very much, my dear President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is my fault for first sending Trump to Turkey. He insulted the President of the Republic of Turkey, the organs of the Republic of Turkey, the government, the state. As the Republican People's Party, we have complained about this, why are the AK PARTY officials not pressing charges, and why isn't this inviting the Republican prosecutors to the post? When a college student criticizes the President, when he throws a heavy tweet, you're all on the way to the court, to the police station, but when it comes to Trump, you're standing still. I'm asking you: You must complain to the police departments as well as to the prosecutor's office because of the students, because of the immoral letter Trump had made, otherwise you will continue to be a loser against Trump. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0198par0574	Mr. Serker, please.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0199par0576	Thank you, Mr. President. İzmir MP, the last Prime Minister, former President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Banilli Yıldırım is here, we can't see in the General Assembly, but he does the politics he doesn't do here by going to university in İzmir. He not only does politics, but the Justice and Development Party he belongs to can act as if he had not been in power for 17 years and has never heard of brain migration in the process. For Turkish scientists who talked about their visit to the Silicon Valley in İzmir today and signed serious investments and inventions there, they wish they were here, not there. They ask you, "Why didn't you adopt these young people in all your years of power?" I ask, who will the young ones who you say will come back from the United States of America trust? Not every university graduate has to get a job. Is it the president who says "The public can't provide jobs for all college graduates?" Therefore, it is no longer the last Prime Minister to have the envy and idle talk.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0198par0581	There are three motions on the 11th article, and I will process them according to the order of opposition. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 11 of the Law Proposal be reorganised in the following manner. The second joke of Article 234 of Law 11 - 4458 has been changed in the form of "the ten. " "2. The internal processing regime, under customs-controlled processing regime and the full exemption of the temporary import regime, as a result of examination and inspection or inspection of the property in accordance with the provisions of the temporary import regime, is fined for half the tax difference if the first joke determines the differences mentioned. No criminal action will be carried out if the violation of the statement is reported to the administration within 15 days of the appointment of the administration and within 15 days of the date of the declaration. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Yasin Ozturk Zeki Hakan Sıdalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mersin MP Zeki Hakan Sıdlı who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0200par0595	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our economy is in a huge decline; all the HEPs, the structures that are being done are failing. We're growing way below population growth. Every month, unemployment is increasing, and with unemployment, our ability to buy inside is erosion, and our people can't even meet their basic needs. We're getting away from the scale economy with the smaller economy, and we're losing our competitiveness. So, what's the solution? Use any means available for exports, transfer from the construction economy to the production economy. So, what's your solution? Let's not make import difficult, but let's do it not by increasing exports, but by fines for imports. Always stick. But the industrialist wants carrots from you. Yesterday Mr. Durmiş Yilmaz told us that we export orange at 44 percent, tangerine at 37 percent, lemon at 28 percent, grapefruit at 32 percent less than ten years ago. See, import goods don't just include consumer goods entering the country, but intermediaries, raw materials, inventory products for industry to produce. The 11th article we're talking about is related to the interim goods and raw materials imported to export in large quantities. So with these imported goods, the industrialist will produce and eventually contribute to export revenues. So the laws we're going to make here should make it easier, encourage, and open the way for the industrialist, the manufacturer. It is of no use to this country to have the goods that the manufacturer is waiting for, to be caught in customs, to receive higher punishments than his manifest mistakes. The industrialist made a mistake, he noticed it himself. What are we doing? Hey, come here, pay the fine. Our mission is to increase the competitive power of Turkish goods in exports. Not pumping life water into our budget, which you've destroyed by making big fines for small mistakes. Our motion on the matter has corrections that can prevent a more inclusive, encouraging, and expressive failure of the relevant law clause. We don't think it's right for him to be punished if the error of the process is reported by the statement holder before the administration determines the difference. A 15-day renovation period will be granted to the person who reported the error and will encourage correcting the errors if no criminal action is carried out for this mistrial statement. Let the industrialist do his job, and he'll be the lifeblood of the economy you've destroyed. Come on, let's all lift this fine together. Members of parliament, the processing regime, including the country, aims to reduce entry costs and increase the competitiveness of export goods by allowing unsupply materials from abroad. The regime, however, has a number of challenges, as well as a negative influence on export imports, as well as local producers. There's no pressure in trade, there's incentive. We should encourage the exporter to use domestic alternatives, reward him. Threats of sanctions against our country from all over the world also target our export pens directly. How will you protect our exporters and industrialists from these threats, especially with stuffed hair? Will you create alternative markets that will sell products and buy raw materials? Or are you going to save some firms from going under and leave others to their fate? I wish our asset fund would support the exporter COBI instead of saving the builder. But where! According to Trade Ministry data, the use of the processing regime within European Union countries is around 5 per cent, while Turkey meets 43 per cent of exports. When we look at the relevant legislation, it seems that the process regime can be implemented in any sector. The application will be changed and limited to the sector where the use of raw materials and interstitial goods which are not possible to produce in Turkey will provide an acceleration in the context of domestic production. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0201par0602	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0200par0603	Given the fact that Turkey's most imported pens are in between goods and raw materials, you will see that if necessary measures are taken, economic growth based on exports will improve, if you want to look at them that way. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0201par0606	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Customs Law Proposal be changed to five hundred and five, which is part of the 11th article of the current Customs Law Proposal. Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Turan Aydoğan Tacettin Bayır Hüseyin Yıldız Aydın Özer Deniz Yavuzyılmaz Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. The Zonguldak MP who wants to talk about the motion is not the Deniz Yavuzy. Here you go, Mr. Yavuzyil.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0202par0621	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, this amendment to the Customs Law is a very dangerous proposal for Turkey's economy, in essence and summary. This offer encourages smuggling. This offer encourages smugglers. It destroys the shields of customs guards that local manufacturers need to protect. It's an offer that eliminates equal competitive opportunities and bankrupts domestic manufacturers. In short, this offer is an informal offer, with its consequences. Let us consider the 11th article together in light of these findings. Article 11 is the article that will turn Turkey into a foreign-plated vehicle hell. In accordance with the full exemption stated in Article 11 in the second article of Article 11, it is intended to be an object subject to temporary import regime provisions, but also foreign licensed vehicles in Turkey. The penalty for irregularities is at least 400 per cent reduced according to Article 234 of the current law. According to Article 11, when it is discovered that the person who owns a double passport and is in fact a resident of Turkey and has made a statement as if it had resided abroad is not entitled to the rights of the vehicle, its customs duties will be fined by up to 1/2. If this clause is legalized as such, the market for zero kilometers and second-hand vehicles in our country will have a major crisis. Our tax-paying citizen in order to own a vehicle will be victimized in the most polite manner. It is also the regime of products imported for exporting from the processing regime, including the 11th article (2). For example, the import taxes of 300 meters, which are different according to the current law, when it is found that a manufacturer who claims to import 1,000 metres of fabric from China in order to produce and export shirts and export them, is actually bringing more and more 1,300 meters of fabric, not 1,000 feet of fabric, are also fined 1.5 times more than that. But if the 11th article becomes law, the penalty will be only half the tax difference of 300 metres of cloth. In this case, the profit rate of most imported products in the market will be much higher than the price of punishment, and if you add that customs has identified only one of the 100-200 fugitives with the most optimistic approach, the 11th article and the following material would have prepared the infrastructure for high-profit profit by very low risk. In this case, it would be possible to free a manufacturer from an unfortunate punishment, allowing dozens of manufacturers to go bankrupt because of this kind of product entering the market. What is even more incomprehensible is that Article 4458, Article 244, has been arranged, and there is a better opportunity to approach well-intentioned industrialists in negotiations on reconciliation. The agreement between the customs administration and the companies includes tax differences, not only the fines imposed on companies. At this point, the AK PARTY also abuses the institution of reconciliation. Look, how did the Court determine this abuse? The Court Report, which you see in my hand, is the Ministry of Commerce Review Report for 2018. The lack of accounting of Customs Taxes Ekakkuk and Penal Codes says: "There has been no accounting of those who have been followed by additional charges and penalties, which have been cut by the customs departments.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0203par0628	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0202par0629	The Court Report of 2010 has the same findings here. What does that mean? According to figures from the Court reports, the additional charge and fine total of 2018 are $3.2 billion, the collection is only $710m, the difference is $2.49 billion; they are unaccounted for and included in the settlement. The Court is shouting in its own words: I can't control the punishments that have been erased at the establishment of reconciliation. I can't control which companies' fines have been reset, he says. Thus, irregularities are understood and alleged to have been systematically committed by the AK PARTY bureaucrats. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0203par0632	You've got a good voice, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0202par0633	Thank you. Another point is that this law proposal, which has been prepared without account for the meanings of the concepts used by the proposed amendment, does not mean that customs guards should not be engaged in the same way that we can't allow narcotics officers to serve with the chartered staff. I pay my respects. [[Applause from CHP rows]] SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGI COMMINATION PRESIDENT MUSTAFA LITAS (SECERI) Mr. President, do you promise?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0204par0638	Yes, Mr. President. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMINATION PRESIDENT MUSTAFA EITAS (Kaseri) Mr. President, while accusing the AK PARTY Group in his valuable parliamentary speech, is actually leaving our Commission under a major accusation. It's as if this text would give a great deal of opportunity to those who want to commit corruption and corruption. See, the proportion of 15 per cent would have been changed to 10 per cent in our text if earlier differences were expressed in relation to regret in Article 234 (3). In your proposal, the 10 per cent rate is reduced to 5 per cent. Our valued parliamentary friends in the commission have expressed their opinion on whether it should be 10 per cent or 5 per cent, in the form of the latest 10 per cent, with a large majority of members of our Commission. Look, Mr. Congressman, Article 234 has been declared what these issues are. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVILS, INTERVIEWS, INTERVIEWS (2), (3), HOW TO APPRECIATE IT IF IT COMES UP AT THE TIME OF DISCOVERY. If these transactions are different, if there are differences in quantity, they must be punished in accordance with Article 238. You're actually condemning our entire Commission by judging the law from 234, and speaking to the history of your motion. When you look at Article 238, it is explained how these will be punished if there is a misdeed, a misdemeanor error. Please, if you look at Article 238 of the Law, you will consider it. Thank you. Thank you very much. I now submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0205par0652	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit02spe0204par0653	All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0204par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 104. The commission is in place. I'm reading the final motion on Article 11: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of Law Proposal 104 shall be changed in accordance with Article 11 of the Law Proposal in accordance with Article 4458 in Article 234. Lütfi Spooner Metin Nurullah Sazak Muharrem Varlı Yasar Montenegro Hasan Kalyoncu Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan Mr. Yavuzylmaz...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0206par0014	Mr. President, I've made a special emphasis on the discrepancy between the sentence reduction expressed in the first article of the 11th article we've just discussed and the sentence reductions mentioned in the second joke. In itself, matter must be punished as well as a balance of deterrentism. Well, if every joke of the substance is going to say the same thing, there wouldn't be more than one joke in a clause. At the same time, you said that a sentence related to Article 238 would be given on the basis of this clause again, but you had already reduced the fine to a quarter of the customs tax, with the change made on 11/4/2013, which was twice the custom price before 2013, and you had already turned it into a bird. So I didn't express it. Thank you for reminding me of that. I also want to express that I find your approach very populist.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0207par0020	Does the commission agree with the motion, Mr. President? We can't participate, Mr. President. Gaziantep MP Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Stoneborn.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0208par0024	Mr. President, lawmakers, according to data released by the Turkish Exporters' Assembly, the election district of Gaziantep was exported $554m,148000 in August 2019, up 7.7 per cent compared to last year's August. As we evaluate the numbers, Turkey's exports in August increased by 1.7 per cent, while Gaziantep exports increased by 7.7 per cent, 4.5 times the country's average. When we compare export numbers we did in the first eight months of this year with exports in the first eight months of last year, I would like to say that Turkish exports increase by 2.9 per cent, while our exports exceed nine per cent and the country average of our exports triples. We can't thank our entrepreneurs, the owners and exporters of these distinguished businesses of the Gaziantep industry, who exported exports to our country and the Gaziantep economy. As we look at the data from August 2019, we find that Gaziantep was ranked sixth among the top 10 cities in our country that exported most. The height of Gaziantep's industrial and production export potential is satisfactory. The products exported by Gaziantep are carpet, agricultural industrial and grain products, textiles and raw materials, chemical materials and products; furniture, paper and forest products, skin and skin products; steel, ready clothing and compaction, age fruit and vegetable products, machine and machine additions. The countries where we export the most from Gaziantep are the neighbouring countries and nearby countries, particularly Iraq, Syria, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, Iran, Libya. Thus, the peace, security, and stability that we will create in our region will also contribute greatly to our trade with neighbouring countries. Thus, Gaziantep most desires the fight against terrorism and the stability of the region. For all these reasons, customs and procedures are an important issue for Gaziantep industries and exporters. Members of parliament, the European Union's new customs law, the Union Customs Code, was adopted on 1 May 2016 in the EU. The Union's Customs Code aims to make standardisation, simplification and simplification of customs transactions with Customs operations, ensure full electronic processing of all customs processing and processes, harmonisation of all member countries' electronic systems, reliant firms -- the firms in the mandated status -- is to be given significant conveniences -- and expand customs procedures on collateral. What the industrialists and exporters want is legal provisions that will further increase our current exports to countries. We believe that the changes that will allow the customs process to be simpler and faster will eliminate many of the problems that our industrialists face in customs and transactions. We believe that the new simplification with the new customs law will reduce costs, especially for the trade court, and will make customs operations more predictable. It should also be noted that customs procedures and controls based on information technologies will be accelerated and will globally develop integration with neighbouring and other countries by increasing international trade activities. Precious lawmakers are clear that customs administrations have an understanding that highlights the monitoring function rather than the control function, and that the law change that we evaluate has an approach that can be reduced to a minimum of unpredictable risks and inventory costs, in the flow of international trade, due to the customs administrations' custom procedures, without stopping the current of the property. It is understood that new practices and simplifications will be brought in line with the Union Customs Code, in line with the new customs code. I wish our country and exporters the best of the proposed amendments, and salute our Veteran Covenant, a veteran like Gaziantep.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0209par0031	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Mr. Nightingale, you have a request.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0210par0036	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made a decision today that the European Parliament strongly condemns Turkey for its operation in the northeast of Syria because of Operation Peace Fountain. I have made a commitment to this decision. The European Parliament demanded that Turkey be stopped immediately by Turkey on grounds that it violated international law, damaged stability and trust in the region, caused civilians to fall from their places, and could contribute to the rebirth of ISIS, and that Turkey strongly condemned Turkey. For the first time, the European Parliament has also demanded economic and political sanctions against a candidate country. Here, it is also seen that some of Turkey's executives have made some recommendations to organise sanctions against state officials and even suspend the Customs Union Agreement. We see a new one added to the European Parliament's double standard, double and unfair decisions. At this point, we are condemning the European Parliament's decision, as our State Department correctly states. This view is part of a perspective that has been unchanging in Turkey, especially in terms of European singing policy, and has not changed for centuries. We don't need to paint too many pink paintings on this. Let's face it, let's make our own precautions. I'd like to briefly quote you on this, and I'd like to talk about a memory. Mithat Cemal Kuntay mentions a memory in his work, Mehmet Akif. Kuntay writes that the people of the famous poem "Amentus of Haluk" in the book of "Tevfiq Fikret" are kind of men, and that Akif is very angry in the verse of my country. Do you believe this lie when you remind Akif of this verse one day? After saying it, he says: "Do you believe that the people of Europe, the Turks and the Muslims, are involved in what kind of people, the rules of Europe? Do you know what the German government told us when we went to Berlin? In Reichstag, Catholic mebus shouts: "How do the savages like Muslims and Turks and the civilized German nation join together? Let us prove to these men that the Turks and the Turks are also human beings?" he said. When Mithat Cemal expressed his surprise as strange... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0211par0042	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0210par0043	It's a lot weirder than that." and 1. During World War II, he was in Vienna, and one night the bells started ringing from the window of the hotel, and every hand in the street was a candle, and everyone was shouting, and our allies seemed to have won a new victory on the front." " Is there a news of victory? " Adam answers to Akif: "Do not promise victory, the English have taken Jerusalem from the Muslims. The British army entered Jerusalem under Allenby's command, and the holy city was saved from the moon, and the cross was restored." he says. Along with these instances in the memory of Mehmet Akif. The treatments we face throughout our Republic's history and the hypocrisy of the West have added a new one to this recent incident. At this point, what Turkey is going to do... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's over, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0212par0047	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0210par0048	What we're going to do at this point is not to raise our generations with hostile feelings against someone, but to remember these truths that we live in our history, but in a great understanding, I offer respect, as Ataturk put it, as Ataturk put it, as Ataturk, pride, work, and trust.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0213par0050	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0212par0051	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0213par0053	Thank you very much, my dear President. Under the circumstances of our esteemed Deputy President, I also condemn this decision the European Parliament has made, and I want to say that it will go down in history as a keenlemekün. In this regard, the European Union sees the creation of a new world, and it wants to find a place in this world, but it is acting in a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations and international law. In fact, a century ago, the deceased Akif gave the best answer: To the unsavory face of the people of Israel! Spit out their promise never to be trusted! See the mascara creature called civilization, Spit on his masked conscience, spit on him! Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0214par0064	There are two motions on the 12th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 12 of the Law Proposal to Change the Customs Law in the following way. It's a six. If the violations mentioned in the first and second joke are reported by the customs administration before they are identified by the manifester, the punishment will not be imposed within the first 15 days, and if it is reported after 15 days, the punishment shall be imposed by 10 per cent. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Feridun Bahshi Yasin Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Samsun MP Bedri Yaşar wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Bedri.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0215par0077	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. On behalf of my group, I condemn the decisions that the European Parliament has made with violence, hatred; I hope we will all come together as Parliaments, and we will all be condemned together. That's how I start my words. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 12th Amendment to the Customs Act. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. The 12th article of the law proposal envisions regulations on administrative fines in general. Our proposal envisions a 15-day deadline for a statement made by the statement holder in good faith before the appointment of the administration. Thus, there will be an opportunity for correcting the mistakes that have been made to the person, without criminal action regarding the corrections made during this period. The failures and shortcomings that arise in customs are of great importance to the prevention of trafficking, to the development of our domestic and foreign trade. Besides, the speed of customs is of great importance. Especially in the summertime, the massing in front of customs does not present a very pleasant view at this time of year. Hopefully, there will be necessary measures for these, and these collapses in customs will be avoided. Dear lawmakers, these small changes in this economic crisis that our country has fallen into are certainly not enough. The government must return to the economy and review policies on small and medium enterprises. Otherwise, because of these crises, there will be no more institutions and institutions to trade in our country, and there will be no more taxpayers to pay taxes. Business in our country is getting a little harder every day because of the crises. The recession in the economic field has had a negative effect on all of our producers, especially our managers. Turkey has lost confidence in almost every area. There's been some serious recession in the domestic demand. Production has decreased, unemployment has increased. According to TÜİK data, the unemployment rate in the young population has risen to 7.1 per cent. Because of the crisis in many businesses in our country today, debts have become unpayable. Many companies are going under due to their debts, going to the concordato, a series of bankruptcys. In 2018, 12,564 companies were closed. Because of these closing companies, thousands of people are out of work. Again, according to Turkish Union of Banks data, a total of 938.198 bonds protested in 2018, while 588.297 checks bounced. Again, in 2018 902,918, 902,918 people were unable to pay their loan debt, while 806,709 people were unable to pay their credit card debt. In total, 1,388,673 people were unable to pay their credit and credit card debt. Our government... The laws we've passed in this Parliament are more about solving the problems of large companies, and the law we've passed on banks is about consolidating their debt. If we can't come up with formulas to solve the problems of small and medium businesses, we can't seem to handle these problems. In the same way, the construction of tax, SEC, VAT debts in the past period has been severely unpayable at this time. It's the end of the year. I know the Tax Law is coming, and there is also a need for restructuring. It doesn't make any sense that you're constructing debts with current interest. When the mother of the debt cannot be paid, it is not possible to repay them with interest payments. Once in a while, there is a need for the construction of debts only to pay off the mother's mother, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, at a very serious and immediate rate. And again, e-accessively, a lot of taxpayer's accounts are blocked. If we can't find a solution to these problems, let alone pay taxes, we'd like to remind you once again that our country is facing much more serious problems in the future. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President. The same way, especially in this Parliament, we're always fighting over different issues. Friends, I personally say that I would like to remind you that we did not agree with Rauf Denktas, just as we disagreed with the words of Soyer. We can't do this unless we say wrong. I believe that everyone will show the virtue of saying wrong, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0216par0093	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 12th amendment to the Customs Law (a) of the 12th Amendment (e.g. a) shall be replaced and proposed by twice the value of the customs tax (e.g., C) which has been imposed on me. Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Turan Aydoğan Tacettin Bayır Hussain Yıldız Aydın Özer Necati Miglı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. It's Giresun MP Necati Teğlý who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Mumble.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0217par0108	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 12th Amendment to the Customs Law. I salute you all with respect and love. This article regulates fines that will be imposed if the Customs Law is found entering our home, which is Article 235, which is prohibited from imports. Although this provision for imported goods has been asked to prevent trafficking, it will negatively affect many of our citizens who shop abroad for their small needs. You all remember that some of the regulations that were made last semester were almost unlawful, and the last money in the pocket of a citizen who was shopping abroad was designed to be taken. All arrangements, such as three years of cell-phone delivery, removal of tax exemptions in the foreign cargo, and bringing in SVR, are regulations against the citizen. We now pay taxes on each product from abroad for 1 euro or 22 euros. You remember before, there was no tax on products under 22 euros. Customs tax rates are 18 per cent for products from the European Union and 20 per cent for products from other countries. Under the circumstances, these tax pens will be charged with increasing and being referred to as OTV. In this case, foreign shoppers can demand that the value of the products they buy from companies they buy from so as not to pay high taxes. It is important to remember that instead of being angry at the citizen, the tax system must be renewed. Honourable MPs, I'd like to give you a brief example of the matter. For example, if a 50-euro item is shown on a cargo package for 10 euros, the Treasury and Finance Ministry seems to have lost a tax-related income, but the 12th article, along with the penal system, makes four times the difference between the customs tax and the customs value of the product. So in any case, while the Treasury and Finance Ministry puts its tax share and the amount of punishment in its vault, many people who make small trades from abroad for their daily needs via mail and cargo. The purpose of this government arrangement is to offer the appreciation of my citizens, whether it is the intention of reducing or reducing the interest and demand of our citizens who make small transactions for their daily needs, or how much tax I collect from the citizen. When this 12th article we're talking about is about imported goods, it's almost as if you're thinking about immediately imported agricultural products. Yes, the hay as we know it; you imported hay, but the Minister of Agriculture and Forest came out, and we didn't import it out of necessity. Well, what did you do it for? You imported cattle; they were all sick; you threw them into the sea; and the remnant of them were in the slaughter house. First you imported garbage from Europe, then you went out and said, "The grocery bags are bad." You said, "We're environmentalists." As you imported oil, you raised fuel and mazota over increase. Before the election, we found natural gas deposits. You said, "We found natural gas." But you imported natural gas again, and as you imported natural gas, you increased it, and as you increased it, you brought the citizens to the point of burning turds. I'd like to add two more things. Our self-sufficient country, along with the AKP, imported wheat, corn, rice from Russia; lentils from Canada; dried beans and beans from Mexico; figs from Germany; grapes from Iran; olives from Syria. You import it without production, you import it, you're needy, if you're needy, the man comes in, he tries to sanction you one day, he sends you the meanest letter in the history of the Republic of Turkey, and you don't make a sound. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Those who can't find solutions for strong economy, strong agriculture, strong foreign relations create chaos, create unhappiness, produce conflict. When there is no production in the country, a citizen who sees that all his taxes are spent on imported goods, and the last penny in his pocket, he becomes furious. Come on, you be it, don't piss off our citizen. Don't ignore the raises for the court and say stop! Since we're here to protect the interest of 82 million, I say we never forget it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0218par0117	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0219par0119	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0218par0120	Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0219par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. The European Parliament's decision to condemn Turkey's military operation towards the northeast of Syria is strongly condemning us as well. This decision, particularly the suspension of the customs union, has nothing to do with bringing with it many requests for sanctions. In addition, the European Parliament does not make the first decision on Turkey, and whenever there is an unusual development of geography, they make a habit of doing similar interventions and keeping it pure on the opposite front. To them, human rights are only for themselves, and their understanding of human rights does not include the protection of Turkish rights and law. Under the 51st Article of the United Nations Condition, we are once again condemned as the GOOD PARTI, which has been held against the Republic of Turkey, using a perfectly legitimate and legal right to maintain border security and to ensure its own safety. The National Movement Party condemned it, the Justice and Development Party condemned it. I recommend that all political parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly decide to condemn the European Parliament on a joint text, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0220par0128	Dear Private...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0221par0130	The text of the European Parliament's decision is not acceptable to Turkey's definitions and the language they use on Turkey. It is important to remind those who have signed this decision in the European Parliament that they have used their right to self-defense against the terrorist elements on Turkey's border, and that if there are such terror elements within the borders of which country is a member of parliament or within the borders of a neighbouring country, they may remain indifferent. We want to say that we reject all kinds of sanctioned threats against Turkey, particularly as a threat to the customs union. In this process, we remind the European Parliament of the Republic of Turkey, whether it is threatened by Trump or not, by whomever outside Turkey is threatened by the European Parliament, by the tradition of Ismet Pasha, who stood up to Johnson's letter, and the firm stand that Ecevit put against the most severe embargo threats, and we hope that every politician who has not mentioned the Turkish foreign policy and the reputation of the Republic of Turkey throughout our history, should be an example of how Mustafa Kemal Ataturk put the anti-emperist struggle into the world. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0222par0134	And we, the Court, are celebrating our co-chairs. In this union, Turkey will overcome everything by the will of God. May God not destroy our unity, our unity. There are two motions on the 13th article, which I shall have read and process according to the order of contradiction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 13th Amendment to Customs Law be reorganised in the following manner. The fifth joke of Article 236 of the 13-4458 Law has been redacted as follows. ▪5. As a result of the inspection or examination of the statement that the property was subject to the customs court regime, the analysis, the technical examination, and the discovery that it was a different sex from what was stated in the antrepo declaration; A) Twice the administrative fine of customs duties on a different object, if the sum of customs taxes is higher than the sum of customs taxes. B) Different items are fined twice the customs value of different items if they are subject to licenses, conditions, permits, reductions, or a certificate of competency or competency provided by certain organisations. Fahrettin Yoshüş Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. To talk about the motion, Iconian MP Fahrettin Yoshüstüs. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0223par0154	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by welcoming all of you. As I tried to put it yesterday, I'm going to try to explain in private today the customs bill, the problems of the members of the Ministry of Commerce. Under Article 2258 of Law number 4458, all personnel must be taken into account for the 5,000 application of the ceiling co-ordinator in paying extra labor fees for personnel, customs inspectors must be taken into the career group, staffs such as the institution's required expert and medical officer must be met primarily from the staff of the institution who has a savings, the captain, the shipmaker, the engineer, the staff who has been given weapons to the titles, the new contractors must be given to the customs and trade inspector's customs and protection, the staff must be taken under special written examinations, especially those who need to be subjected to smuggling, especially with the task of smuggling and access to the security of the premises, as well as well as with the security of the security of the staff of the facility, and the staff of the staff of the staff of the facility, the staff of the staff of the facility, the staff, and the staff of the staff who are required to be appointed, and the staff of the professions of the professions of the professions of the facility, and the professions of the profession of the institution shall be required to be given to be given to be appointed, and staff, and the task of the task, and staff of the professions of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the task of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the institution, and staff of the office of the office of the office of the institution shall be required of the office of the office of the institution shall be appointed of the office of the task of the office of the office of the task, and the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office, and staff, and the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the profession, and the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of The pleasure of temporary assignments must be eliminated. Some border crossings do not allow officers to travel due to a low volume of work, which should be compensated for their workers. Investigators should be provided with a non-tested duty card for their supervisors, supervisors, supervisors, and other civil servants with a co-worker's report card. Officials who work for the Ministry of Trade liquidation must receive their wages from the state, not from the materials that are sold, not from the return capital, but from other institutions. A bonus must be distributed from the return capital. Dear lawmakers, as far as I'm concerned, as long as we don't solve the economic and social problems of customs workers, we can't get productive service from customs workers. More importantly, customs says we have no means of preventing smuggling and corruption, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0224par0159	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Change in the Customs Law (a) of the 13th Amendment (a) is twice the amount of customs taxes that are imposed on me, as much as the amount of customs tax (b), and twice the amount of the "groomed value" in my hand, we propose and propose that the statement be changed into "two times the amount of the customs tax." Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Tacettin Bayır Hüseyin Yıldız Turan Aydoğan Aydın Özer Veli Ağbaba Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0176	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, a bomb has been dropped on our agenda. Days before the Republic's 96th anniversary, the Republic of Turkey faced an outrage that we had never experienced before in our history. The President of the United States wrote a letter to the President of Turkey. And when this letter came, he was silenced for nine days, and they hid the letter, and they swallowed the letter, and they were caught red-handed when the letter was leaked to the press by the U.S. government. The fact that this letter is hidden from the public is another disgrace, another disgrace. What does it say in the letter? I don't want to destroy your economy, but I will if I want to. Sit down with the terrorist organization and deal. I've solved some of your problems. We're also wondering what problems you've solved. Don't be a tough guy. If you don't do as I say, history will see you as the devil. Don't be stupid! I'll call you later at the end. Dear friends, you don't say that in a fight. If those words were said in the neighborhood, there'd be a fight, and if I read those words here, I guess there'd be nothing left for you to say to me.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0226par0179	You've read it.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0180	Dear friends, this letter has been a black mark on our history, and history will remember with great shame those who took it, who hid it for nine days, and those who didn't answer.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0227par0181	The ones who wrote the letter...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0182	The harshest response to this letter is our party, especially our president, and it continues to give. If someone says to you on the street, "Don't be stupid. What do you do when you tell Ramadan Can, Ramadan Can, for example, you probably don't stop and think, you probably don't say a word and you don't shut up, but Trump tells you, what do you do? You don't sound like a cat, you can't say anything.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0227par0183	He'll say something to Trump.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0228par0184	You were rubbing hands!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0185	Now, what would you do if I said, "Don't be evil, I won't tell anyone, I won't tell anyone." You attack.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0228par0186	You rub hands, rub hands!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0187	When you see Trump, you're like a cat with milk on it! Don't be stupid! You're quiet! Indeed, man is shy and shy.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0229par0189	Haven't you seen Johnson?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0230par0190	Isn't it obvious in Operation Peace Fountain...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0191	You shut up because it's Trump who wrote this letter. I wish you'd say something to Trump. I wish you'd say something to Trump. Show your courage against Trump. You know what you're saying, Dutch? I wish you'd say Trump.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0231par0192	And you rubbed hands!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0193	Why can't we say it? I'll say it, I'll say it. Now, dear friends, if Kemal Kilicdaroglu had written this letter to you, you would have sued for $2 million, you would have raised the county and the county organizations, but what do you do when you say Trump? I'll tell you again, you're like a cat with milk on it, cat! [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] If a journalist wrote this, you'd be thrown in jail. What would you do if someone shared it on Facebook? You sue, you put him in jail. What does Trump do when he writes? You're like a cat with milk in it!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0232par0197	You're the voice of Trump.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0233par0198	You're shocked by the response, shock.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0199	Look, I'll give you a few examples: Universal author Ender Imrek (i.e., corruption, theft, bribery) can be concealed? The trial is being filed on the basis of the article, Psychiatry Doctor Ahmet Kötcu (facebook) and the average of Turkey. He says, "Recep Tayyip Erdoğan is the average of Turkey." He says, he is being thrown into prison, and Republican reporters are being thrown into prison. Look, dear friends, but what happens when you say Trump? You're like a cat with milk in it! Look, my dear friends, those who have sued Republican artist Musa Kart/a for the December 17th corruption caricature, those who have imprisoned 69-year-old Nuri Kurtcebe/, Penguin painters -- who have punished penguins for 11 months because of their cartoons -- are silent to the parable of Trump (devil), as if they had spilled milk! Look, there's a reason for the silence. Look, there's the People's Bank, the investigation into Erdogan's family's assets, he's blackmailing them, he's even dealing with his enemy when his assets come up.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0234par0203	What blackmail?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0204	Because, look, let me remind you, the Russian crisis broke out, the plane crashed; the Prime Minister said, "I dropped it." He said, "No, I dropped it." He said, "We didn't do it, he did it." You know why? Russia said: "The family of Erdoğan (Erdoğan) is bringing in illegal diesel from Iraq and selling it. I'm going to present them to the United Nations. You immediately wrote an apology at the speed of light, you signed with Russia, Russia!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0235par0205	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0236par0206	It can't be that low.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0207	Dear friends, why? Because when the assets come in, everything goes away.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0235par0208	You're always lying!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0225par0209	Dear friends, look, we're gonna hit you in the face. It's a misdemeanor that'll go down in history. It's a disgrace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0237par0212	There's no need to promise, it's...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0238par0213	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0239par0214	It's such a low level!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0240par0215	And let me rub a few more things in your face. You're doing heroic stories in Syria.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0241par0216	Did you have to or did you have to?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0242par0217	Did you have to, or did you have to?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0240par0218	It is you who have brought Syria into this mess, and it is you who are responsible.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0241par0219	You've had a hard time.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0240par0220	What did Kilicdaroglu say? Talk to Esat, brother, sit down with the Syrian administration. You said there isn't. Putin said last night, you greeted Putin.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0243par0222	He touched you?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0240par0223	You're already here. Shame on you in front of Putin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If there's a Syrian swamp today, if there's ISIS, it's all your fault. You are the ones who brought up ISIS, and you are the ones who brought up the Middle East swamp. You're the one who put Turkey in its position today.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0243par0226	Is it too much for you?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0240par0227	You've sunk Turkey, you've rolled Turkey into a cliff, you're responsible for it, you're responsible for it!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0243par0228	What's wrong with you?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0240par0229	It's you! Tell me, we didn't raise the light. Say, "We didn't bring Turkey into this Middle East swamp."
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0244par0231	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0240par0232	The AKP is responsible for our dead soldiers, who are in charge of these policies.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0245par0233	It's not the dead one, it's the martyr. The soldier was a martyr. He didn't die.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0240par0234	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0246par0236	He just picked on our orator group, and I want to talk about the bench.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0247par0237	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0246par0241	Dear President, dear lawmakers, we've just seen a reflection of a delusion, a reflection of a slander, a failure. Pity! Erdogan and the AK PARTI hostility should not have allowed you to experience the abuse of speaking with the mouth of terrorists in national matters. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yeah, what's going on, we showed it here. There was a letter on October 9th, and there was an addition. Mr. President tore up the letter and its supplements and threw them in the garbage can. You will not enter Syria. We have been called, entered, operated for nine days, and then they have come to Fivepe, and they have sat at our table and signed under our thesis. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Well, this is a success for all of us, friends. Shame and shame, shame! Look, what does Jeffrey say, Mr. Agha? "O America, my dear nation. "The U.S. Special Representative to Syria, Jeffrey, spoke on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, confessed to the Peace Fountain, and said: "Even if the United States had not withdrawn, Turkey would have done this action. Erdogan said, "Get out of the way. We're out of the way." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Veli Agha, I'm afraid Jeffrey is answering you. Too bad, too bad, too bad, too bad! Look, there's a lot of teasing going on, and I'm not standing here asking for a speech.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0248par0249	They've withdrawn all sanctions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0246par0250	And just for the record, tomorrow, a hundred years from now, I'm taking my word for the truth, and I'm answering some of your unrealistic statements. At least stand up for yourself on this national issue. Not from terrorists, but from your own country, from your own nation! Too bad, too bad! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yeah, look, did they get the sanctions back? They took it back. Have we appointed Halkbank's Vice President as director of the Istanbul Stock Exchange? We'll throw it away.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0248par0253	Congratulations!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0246par0254	Why? Because we are representatives of the Turkish nation. We're conscious that we're on the same ship for the safety of all 82 million people. Erdogan and the AK PARTY are hostile, so we don't skimp on national issues like you do, we don't mess around. Thus, as we have claimed Cyprus, as Cyprus is a great victory... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as we have made a great victory on this side of the 1699 Karlofian Treaty, although I would like to point out that if the Bronze Soyer has made statements that have upset all of us, that have upset all of our martyrs, and that you have not responded to any of them, then this is what I'm going to say.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0249par0257	Come on, he made a statement, it's a shame!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0246par0258	Dear friends...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0250par0259	The president is occupying the bench, orator.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0246par0260	Dear friends, for the record, I'm not adding -- your friends are doing it -- and I'm not forcing our president to do it. In the final sentence, my esteemed congressman, dear friends.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0251par0262	What does it have to do with Karlof?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0246par0263	Friends, please don't judge national matters on the party plane. Opposition is never the function of betraying national issues with hatred and anger.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0252par0265	Well, thank you very much. Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0253par0267	Mr. President, in fact, Mr. orator, as it may not have been necessary to explain, Mr. Vice President Veli Ağbaba, has just made an unacceptable insult to our vice president, Veli Ağbaba, to speak with the mouth of a terrorist organization. According to the Civil Charter 69, he will take the right to answer from the bench.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0252par0268	Mr. Veli, express your thoughts without challenging a taunt.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0254par0271	Mr. President, dear friends, God damn those who speak with the terrorist's mouth! Amen! (CHP and AK PARTY) continue to say amen! God damn the rapist, the rapist, the rapist, the rapist that MIT, and the police are looking for with the red newsletter, who brought Osman Ocalan to TRT, and made him talk! Those who interpret the letter of Abdullah Ocalan, who you call a terrorist to win the Istanbul elections, should also be damned!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0255par0273	And those who walk shoulder to shoulder!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0254par0274	Damn those who sit next to you in Dolmabahçe, with the people you claim to be terrorist representatives on their knees! [[Applause from CHP rows]] What else? Today, God damn those of you who met Salih Müslim, the head of the PYD, with a red carpet and put him to bed in a state guesthouse! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Shall I tell you more?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0256par0279	Damn those who walk arm in arm with traitors!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0257par0280	Exactly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0258par0281	Damn those who walk arm in arm with the HDP people!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0259par0282	God damn those who call Barzani to speak in Congress and stop the Turkish soldier in front of the Kurdish flag you call rags! [[Applause from CHP rows]] President, Mr. Akbasoglu, I'll tell you, are you Jeffrey? Jeffrey, answer me if you can. If your heart is strong enough, Jeffrey, O U.S.A., you tell me. He says: "Our president took the letter, threw it away." Who is the witness? Who's the witness? Fahrettin Altun. Look at the witness. If you have the heart, you will receive the letter -- the president has every opportunity -- and you will say: "O Trump, I do not accept this letter. You will not enter it into the public archives." Damn those who put this letter in the public archives!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0260par0286	Why don't you sing the Kandili? Say the Kandili, Kandili.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0261par0287	You should have told him to go to hell.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0262par0288	That's the level. Congratulations on your level!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0263par0289	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0264par0290	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0265par0291	Mr. President, did they take the bullying personally?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0266par0292	Mr. President, don't talk to me.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0267par0294	Yes, my dear President, the esteemed MPs, I really want to say that we gave the best answer to the letter in the field, and in agreement... look, they wrote us letters and said, "Don't go in.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0265par0295	Mr. President, did they take the bullying personally?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0267par0296	We didn't take Johnson's letter and act like the people who made the tornadoes out of action. We got the letter, threw it in the trash, started the operation.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0268par0297	Who's the witness?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0267par0298	Witness? People, people, witness people, witness world.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0268par0299	He put that letter into the public archives, that letter, that letter, into the public archives. Fahrettin threw it away as a witness by Altun.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0267par0300	Turkey has signed its commitment under international law to establish a safe zone 30km deep within the 444km limit of the PKK and YPG, and to place 4 million Syrians in this secure area, both by allowing Russia and the United States to accept their own arguments. That is the supreme triumph. Shame on those who can't swallow this victory!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0269par0302	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0270par0303	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0269par0304	Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0271par0305	The answer to the letter is, "When I put it in, I'll put it in, we'll put it in, we'll put it in, we'll put it in, we'll put it in." That's the answer!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0272par0307	What do you say?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0271par0308	We'll make him sit down!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0273par0309	Congressmans, Mr. Group Vice President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0272par0310	You can go, you can go! Let's go, stone car!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0271par0311	I'm here, I'm here. I don't want to talk too much.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0272par0312	You're out of here! Go, go!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0274par0313	Mr. Dervisoglu, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0275par0314	Thank you, Mr. President. At the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly again...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0276par0316	Don't go, don't go!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0277par0317	Go on, you're out of here!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0278par0318	What am I supposed to do, wait till morning?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0279par0319	Wait a minute, wait a minute... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0280par0321	Go on, go on, go on! Rock cart!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0281par0322	You're the Vice President of the United States. This is the CHP!
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0279par0323	Congressmans, I promised the Deputy Director of the Group. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, stop beating around the bush, it doesn't suit anyone, it doesn't suit a congressman. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0282par0328	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The General Assembly's overheating again. Separated from the group representatives of our political parties, he addressed the main opposition party's Vice President General Kurula. Today, if our Armed Forces are conducting an operation to ensure their own safety across the border, it has been carried out by a joint decision made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So we need to talk about the stability and determination of the ruling group and the opposition group concerning this operation. Mr. orator, of course, has mentioned some mistakes in the past, which are very difficult to accept by the ruling party, perhaps to bring with it a confession and self-criticism. All right, that's true, of course, the Deputy Director of Justice and Development will respond to the words of the Republican People's Party's orator, but we remind him that the way to prevent this from creating a basis for new debates should also be a representative. This party has expressed some of the mistakes of power towards the past. I don't find it very meaningful to say that today you're doing this without a spokesman and a mayor of another political party. There are decisions made by the power of the past. These decisions and practices contain inconsistencies within themselves in terms of foreign policy.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0279par0331	Wait a minute... I'm turning on the mike.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0282par0332	Instead of saying "I wish we hadn't," I'm convinced that there's no way that there could have been a conflict between us. And I salute the High Council, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0283par0334	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0279par0335	Mr. Free, I beg you to express your thoughts without a taunt.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0283par0337	Mr. Akbasoglu already gave Mr. Veli Ağbaba the best answer, there's no shortage there, but Mr. Akbasoğlu spoke something else later. The issue he's talking about is today's politics, the founding staff of this country, which no one of the world's democracies is calling the founding staff of that country -- who is the founding fathers, who are not dealing with them -- in current politics, but between the sentences -- I'm going to find a letter from the United States -- says: "This is a new world, including cutting off all diplomatic relations with the United States of America when the letter comes from Johnson of Ismet Pasha and all the diplomats of Turkey." Let him take the phone, go in the back, and call one of the extremists he trusts. The world history of politics praises that answer, that attitude, that stance. During the period leading to 1974, Turkey pushed diplomacy to the end, as well as international organizations forced it, finally taking Ayþe on vacation without bowing to the embargo threats, and those who cut off our descendants looked up at the sky and looked down at the air-drop brigade, as a tear for the tears of the mothers watching Cyprus in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You will be grateful to those who did this, and to those who brought this foreign policy, after the war that Turkey won, to those who tore up Sevr. To those who broke the marble at the table in Lausanne. Under the roof of this House, this slander language used against them does not deserve the second President of the Republic of Turkey. This slander, this insult to the 2nd President of the Republic of Turkey, I claim, that if there were to be talked to people who support and direct the AKP tomorrow in foreign policy, you would say everything to Ismet Pasha or to Ismet Pasha, but in the letter of Johnson, he was afraid, he did it. They say, "Don't say things like that." I forbid you to say such a thing. And I hope the promise you're about to take is an apology.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0284par0342	Yes, Akbasoglu is about to return to our agenda...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0285par0344	Unless... Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, yes, as a result, there has been an answer here on the matter of the letter regarding the manner and content of the CHP Vice President and the content of his speech. Yes, there's not a single word about the individuals here about Mr. Inönul. The Johnson letter...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0286par0347	Who do you call "troning" in Johnson's letter?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0285par0348	There was no action on that day. We got the letter and did the action.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0286par0349	No, Johnson's letter made a tornado. Who's that?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0285par0350	And when I first made the first promise in the morning -- if you don't mind my first speech -- I said in the first statements of the group's vice presidents, that Mr. Inönu would build a new world, and Turkey would take its place here. At this moment, Turkey, led by Erdogan, was in the state of the creation of a new world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up, sir. And a new world will be established under Turkey's leadership. This world will be a world of duality, of order of persecution, of peace, and justice, of compassion, of peace, and not of the exploitation that Europe has set forth, not of the double structure. This world will be established under Turkey's leadership. We've all expressed our opinion that we should witness the creation of a righteous and merciful new world.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0287par0354	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0285par0355	I'd like to ask that my remarks be considered in their context, which I can also see from the reports. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0288par0358	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0289par0359	Mr. Free, very short, please.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0288par0360	I'll just need a minute.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0289par0361	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0288par0363	Mr. President, we've just received the letter from Johnson and received the word "tronians" and a world is set up there, where Turkey takes its place. We're moving, we're imitating Ismet Pasha, we're taking the lead. We accept his return to the point of foreign policy as an important self-criticism on this assembly platform, and we accept it as an apology from the spiritual personality of Ismet Pasha. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0290par0367	Look, Mr. President, every word has to be taken in its own context. My word is clear and clear. The speech I gave in the morning is in the middle, and now it's clear what I'm saying. I would also like to express that this matter should be considered in its own context. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0291par0369	Dear lawmakers, it is important to note that right now certain groups of the Turkish Armed Forces have taken advantage of the border and are following us as we race for martyrdom. I'd like to congratulate you on the common position that the Deputy Group Presidents have just resisted some developments in Europe. Is the manuscript being prepared?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0292par0372	He's getting ready.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0291par0373	He's getting ready, all right. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 14th article, and I will process the motions according to the degree of disparity. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and propose that the statement be changed in half the amount of customs taxes on the 2th and twice the tariff of the customs tax, twice the customs tax of the article (a) in which the article is laid down. Ali Mahir Aşır Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Turan Aydoğan Tacettin Bayır Hüseyin Yıldız Aydın Özer Tahsin Tarhan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mersin MP Ali Mahir Aşır who wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0293par0393	I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, yesterday and today some of our Mersin MPs have made allegations that there have been massacres of workers in Mersin Metropolitan Municipality. As MP of Mersin, I was obliged to answer that. First of all, if we're making a claim, we need to have concrete data on it, at least numbers. Just before the 31 March elections, 205 workers were taken, three days before the election. First of all, these workers have all been laid off. There were 154 ATM workers who didn't show up for work, who didn't know the way to the municipality, who didn't work, who were fired, and a total of 374 workers. Now, in these six or seven months, 375 workers were replaced, 223 of which were women. Look, we looked at the competency of these women when they got the job, and we looked at their merits, and we looked at whether they needed it or not.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0294par0397	Should we believe it?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0293par0398	Believe me, believe me, you don't have much faith, but believe me. Now, so many people have arrived that we've hired women from AKP, MPP, PARTI, HDP; women who really need them. And he said, "Shall we believe?" And he said, "Look, I can give you his name, his last name, and the mother of two children who voted for the AK PARTY, and a woman who recently lost her wife. Look, he said it himself, he said: I'm from the AK PARTY. I need a job, I'm on the street with my kids. He said, "I got it. I took it to the mayor of the city, Vahab, and when we told him what to do, I took the bus." He had a driver's license, information, competency, passed the exam and got a job. Maybe he was the one I was most happy with than those 374 workers. Certainly no party-party in Mersin, Alevi-Sunni, Kurd-Arab, no discrimination is being made, but the municipality has changed in 2014. Look, before the election, 1,150 workers were thrown out of the door before Eid's Day.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0295par0400	You look at it now, never mind.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0293par0401	Look, the mayor lost the election on Sunday, he was due to be transferred on Tuesday, his things were put in the sack on Monday, plaques were sent to his house. We have no discrimination, no discrimination at Mersin City Hall. The city of Mersin has never victimized a worker because of his party, because of his faith. If there's a party doing this, it's been AKP power for 17 years, absolutely.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0295par0402	I wish I could.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0293par0403	You can either believe it or not, like I said, there's something wrong with faith. We don't believe in the same thing, we don't think in the same way, you do. Now, look, people are looking for us, the most human problem is... students don't go to a lot of students' dorms. A lady called, and she doesn't have a number - I want a one-week dorm. I called the head of the dorm, and I said, "Messin MP Ali Mahir Aşar." What party did he say? I said, God damn you. Because I didn't ask that citizen what party he voted for. That's what your bureaucrats have. There is no such thing in Mersin, Adana, Antalya, Istanbul.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0296par0405	Izmir, Izmir! In Izmir.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0293par0406	Look, when we get the city, unfortunately, the ATM workers, billions of dollars in debt, whose hand is in whose pocket. Right now, Mersin is a profitable municipality in Mersin, where at least women workers are in large numbers, and we are not discriminated against in doing so. Please, I, the deputy who made the claim, the Baki Simsek, is a dear friend of mine, and I think they gave him false information. We're talking about Mersin, Haci Özkan, Mr. Cumhur, Mr. Baki, we'll all sit down and agree on something.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0297par0408	Don't separate Albany.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0298par0409	Don't forget me.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0293par0410	As well as Mr. Alpay.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0299par0411	And don't forget Genghis.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0293par0413	I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0300par0414	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0293par0415	If there really is a mistake, if a worker has been victimized, if there is false information about someone, Baki Bey will come and we'll go to Vahab's, and we'll solve this problem very easily. If it's Mersin, if it's Turkey, if it's the workers, if it's the workers, if it's the people who deliver the bread, there's no problem, we'll figure it out, but in Mersin Metropolitan City, there's no purposefully, there's not, it's not, it's not. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0301par0418	They gave you false information.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0293par0419	Yeah, well, you're talking about it, you know what I'm saying?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0301par0420	They gave us false information.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0293par0421	God help you, I swear. Yeah, what did I say? Yeah, you're going in there, you're just harassing people.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0302par0422	Yeah, what's bothering you? Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0303par0423	Why are you guys turning the coven on, man?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0304par0424	Why are you yelling, is someone bothering you?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0302par0425	E, I'm yelling at him.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0303par0426	Let me tell you something about experience: people who scream too much don't come to the council in the elections, just so you know. (Laughter) In my experience, I mean it. There he is, Mr. Free. All the old friends know, 65 percent of Parliament goes in every election, but the first ones to go in are the ones who scream, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0305par0427	Mr. President, there's a lot of yelling in the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0303par0428	Look, that Nýğde MP is clapping for me. Here you are, Mr. Levent.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0306par0432	Mr. President, we've just heard the speech of the MP of the Republican People's Party Mersin. Well, that came up yesterday, and I think we've already put the matter on a certain level, with a mutual commitment. But, of course, I thank them for sharing information on the layoffs at Mersin with our Assembly, but the numbers here, in terms of numbers, have been stated that some of them are ATM workers, some of them have been fired for other reasons, some 350 workers have been fired. That's how we explained a number of 150-160s, and there's always been a number of reasons when other people's contracts were terminated. Those reasons will occur in the judicial process of whether they really exist legally, and especially after mandatory mediation comes, first in the process of mediation and then in the process of trial. It is our duty, as the National Movement Party, to follow these processes through our MPs in Mersin, through our agencies there. I'm saying we're going to share the developments in the process with our House. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0303par0434	Fair enough, good. Thank you. And I'll tell you something else, dear friends, you have to be interested in their evaluations while those who are interested in the motion follow the speakers. There's nothing to be said about the motion today. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first joke of Article 14 of the Law Proposal for Changes in the Common Customs Law, we propose and reorganise the text of the substance by replacing it with the affidavit. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Feridun Bahshi Yasin Özturk Ayhan Erel Aydın Adnan Sezgin Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Aydın Aydın Adnan Sezgin wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0307par0452	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we can't fully see what the new regulation of the Customs Law will contribute to the development of our foreign trade. But the state of our foreign trade is not pleasant, and we see it clearly. In the past few weeks, Mr. Trade Minister has shared with the public the data prepared by TİK, and these figures have been presented as if they were good news. According to the 2019 foreign trade prospects poll published a few days ago, export prospects have dropped 14 per cent compared to the previous quarter. So the expectations for the coming period have also fallen because the firms who have a say in foreign trade have a negative assessment of the recent past and the current situation. In fact, in August, the foreign trade deficit increased by 1.2 per cent to 2.5 billion dollars, according to TÜİK figures last week. In August 2019, exports were reduced by 1.5 per cent compared to the previous month; in contrast, imports increased by 0.4 per cent. When we look at the nature of exports, the landscape is even more severe, and the share of high-tech products in manufacturing products exports is only 3 per cent, so today we have an understanding of an Ottoman economy similar to the Ottoman era that missed industrialization in the 19th century. With all its elements, the economy continues to roll over the cliff, while the ruling citizen continues to stall in various ways. Meanwhile, the impression of a secret IMF program being implemented is growing. In a question motion I've made in the past few weeks, I've stated that the government has applied a parallel agricultural policy to the 1999 IMF stand-by agreement and an agreement signed with the World Bank in 2002, especially based on cotton policy. The New Economy Programme, which was announced a few days after my proposal, has strengthened its view that a secret IMF programme is being implemented not only in agriculture but across the economy. The IMF Turkey report, released two weeks ago, saw proposals immediately implemented in the programme. According to the programme, inflation will be low in minimum wage and officer's salary increases, depending on inflation expected to increase wages. Congressmans, you are well aware of our army's position on Operation Peace Fountain. Our army has done its part to repair the damage to the wretched and defeated Syrian policy that the government has followed since August 2011. But as some speakers say today, victory with the United States and Russia is simply a mistake. There may be some positive elements in those texts, but these talks and agreements are actually efforts to mitigate the defeat of the wrong Syrian policy, the greatest threats, the losses they've created on our national security in the history of the republic. I'm afraid we're doing this with states that have come from far across our border and are subject to them. That's the thing, the process isn't over. While the process continues, the cry for victory is also harmful. We're looking for 2011 conditions, which, unfortunately, is far away for now. My regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0308par0457	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 15th article, which I shall have read and process according to the order of contradiction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the Law Proposal be rearranged in the following manner. The fourth part of Article 241 of Law 15-4458 (i.e.) has been removed from effect and the sixth joke (d) has been redacted as follows. Article 11 states that information and documents demanded in writing and that documents which should be kept under Article 13 shall not be submitted during customs control for five years. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. It's Isparta MP Aylin Gutsy who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Brave.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0309par0473	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We're meeting with the Customs Act. Since the second half of the 20th century, the developed countries have protected agricultural sectors with customs taxes and quantity restrictions and have also provided domestic support at high rates. These supports have often caused overproduction due to the amount of production, price and input use, and because of the high share of developed countries in the world market, world prices have dropped and exporters' share in the world's trades, which cannot protect their sectors has been reduced. Unfortunately, our farmer's most important problem with plant production is that the basic input costs, such as fertilizer and diesel, are high. 57 percent is one of the most important agricultural revenues of our Isparta, which deals in agriculture and livestock, and in fact, our symbol is laughter. The world produces about 15,000 tons of roseflowers a year. Turkey is the head of the most important countries producing roseflowers. Nearly 80% of the production in our country is being produced in Isparta. Most of this is being exported. A market-ready product is actually roseflowers, and yet, this year, the rose maker has been waiting for a price on the 10 lira band, while the pricemaker has announced the purchase price of rose flowers at $7.80. GULBIRTH is an important manufacturer that operates in this sector. In fact, we are proud of our smile as Ispartans. Union applications are important in the creation of the roseflower market. As the entries increase, the dollar doesn't sit still, the price of the rose flower is about the same as the price of 2016, and the price of the unit is nearly half the price of 2016. $7.65 lira $2.28 in 2016, $8.70 lira $2.41 in 2017, $9.20 in 2018 is $1.5.32 in this year's bid, which is even lower than the unit price in 2004. Isparta Agriculture Room President Mustahattin Can Selçuk is not shouting, yelling, saying: "We agreed for even a price on the 10 lira band, for our producer, to announce a price on the 7.80 tape. This is $1.40 lower than last year, so let's all figure this out. 50,000 people in the Isparta region provide for themselves with roses. However, there is no application for direct support, input support, bonus payment, export support for the rose maker. However, the rose maker is seriously supported in Bulgaria, our biggest competitor in rose production. Support for producers in Bulgaria needs to be supported by the production of roseflowers, a very special place for Turkey, and to boost competitiveness in the world market. It's almost as if the manufacturer, let alone support, is being crushed by the high impact of increased inflation, by not being given the right price per kilo, but by the fact that it is reflected in the inputs. In Turkey, only Isparta (Isparta) and around it should be treated as a cultural product and be subject to state support and protection. The oil rose was included in industrial plants, but it didn't provide enough help for the manufacturer; it wasn't taken into the model to support agricultural basins in 2019, so the producers were deprived of bonuses, incentive payments. My dear friends, there is a significant reduction in agriculture as a result of agricultural policies in the country, and this shrinking Isparta rose is also negatively affected. As input costs went up, revenues went down, and the scissors between income and expense were significantly narrowed. What to do? The farmer should be given input support; cheap fuel, cheap fertilizer, cheap medicine; state support should not only be limited to the manufacturer; troops and companies in the sector should also be supported; incentives should be given to increase market share and increase export; grant support for the establishment of new factories through revision of existing factories. As a result, the rose maker must be provided with direct support, input support, bonus payment and export support. An urgent step must be taken in this matter. I explained my views on this when the price was announced, which should have been 15, but for 10 liras, for the profit, for which our farmer was well-pleased, for which he had agreed, in the press of Isparta, and you buried the rose in the ground. The ruling party and its partner resented it and agreed to make statements one after another. They also said, "Don't use the rose to politics. We'll make you pay for this betrayal." They also threatened. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'd like to ask for an extension.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0310par0480	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0309par0481	Gentlemen, since when does saying the farmer's problems, saying don't crush the peasant, mean getting him involved in politics, that's what I'm asking you now. Besides, it's our job to do politics, to help our citizens choose and bring us here, that's politics. We represent both our Isparta and our Turkey and our farmers here, and we will continue to represent them despite your threats. Now that they've asked, we've just told them to read it again and listen. I'm going to submit a research motion, make a law proposal, why? Because why did the price go down, so that the authorities could get rid of the embarrassment and embarrassment when they explained it? Why? To save our peasant from being crushed and our rose from being buried in the ground. I'm looking for support from them and all of you, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0311par0485	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement taken in Article 15 of the Law Proposal shall be changed in the form of five years. Faruk Sarıaslan Müzeyyen Sevkin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Ahmet Akın Tacettin Bayır Turan Aydoğan Aydın Özer Hüseyin Yıldız Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Nevşehir MP Faruk Sarıaslan wants to talk about the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yellowaslan.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0312par0500	Mr. President, I'm going to make a quick five-minute speech on science and education. Science is to serve the authority of truth, not the reality of authority. The authority that science rejects is not only the authority of individuals, but also the authority of ideology. No socialist science, no capitalist science, no Islam and no Christian science. Science is to avoid prejudice. Especially when the government of the country is out of your mind, that country is going to hell. There are examples of this in history and in modern times. And the British are Aryans, and they will not fight us, as they say, or we will take the support of all the Muslims we have just lived in, as we say in the United Nations. Congressmans, the way to get to science is through education. Turkey is the 2nd country among OECD countries that spends the least money per student. A country with a population growth and a young population rate above the OECD average, such as Turkey, if it wants to give its children the skills to compete with the world, it has to give education a source much higher than the OECD average. So five percent spending may be enough for less than us countries, but it's not enough for us. The origin of Finland's education success is the fact that in the 1990s, it reduced other budget pencils and doubled the education budget. It must not be forgotten that no miracle will emerge on its own. The undisputed fact that education studies reveal that the basic basis for success in education is the quality of teaching; the important thing is to build a staff of teachers who are passionate about their profession. Turkey is the youngest of the teachers' staff, the second youngest country. It's not an advantage on its own, but it's a serious potential. In a world where knowledge and the method of access to information have changed so quickly, the newly raised young teacher staff can have a very serious reform dynamic by directing it correctly. Today, we have a educational system far from providing our 19 million children with the skills to compete with the world. The urgent thing to do in education is to seek a social consensus on a data-based reform programme, not according to the daily flow of politics. ▪ How do we better prepare our children for competition with the world? There are two options for Turkey; we will either call it intelligence and science, or we will struggle where we are. History has shown us that there is no simple or permanent success between climate or geography and economic success. All research in the world has shown that the key to education is pre-school education. The number of pre-school education is few in Turkey today. With the cooperation of the municipality and the community in every neighborhood, this can be resolved. There are examples of this in the world. The priority of today's rule is to increase the number of universities. Sadly, the higher the number, the lower the quality of education. Therefore, the number of university unemployed has increased. Seventy-seven percent of our young people who go abroad to get a doctorate don't want to go back to their country. The future of this country is proportional to the increased human strength. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, thanks to my fellow citizens who heard me speak in the House, they sent us a document. I was actually speaking about Nevşehir in my speech three or five hours ago, and I didn't want to get into Nevşehir, but since I thought it was important, you know, the poet says, "I've got a case, if you don't tie my words to the judge." Now, right now, I have a document. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0313par0509	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0312par0510	Currently, a person whose passport has been seized on suspicion of the CHP/PDY terrorist organization is the dean of the Faculty of Economics at Nevşehir Hacı Bektaş Veli University and Executive Sciences. Now you're always accusing us of not fighting you, of not supporting you, and I'll give you Mehmet Öcal, whose passport you seized. Now, I say, if this is the dean, don't do it there, if this isn't the dean, remove the check on his passport. Instead of blaming others, blame yourself first. I thank you for listening, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0313par0513	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article, which I shall have read and process according to the order of contradiction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the terms of the amendment to the Customs Law shall be changed to the terms of the Article 16 of the Law Proposal and to the penalties of the sentence. Ömer Fethi Gürer Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Turan Aydoğan Tacettin Bayır Aydın Özer Müzeyyen Sevkin Hüseyin Yıldız Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Niğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0314par0529	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are making partial arrangements in the Customs Act. Essentially, it is necessary for the country to adopt a fundamental law on the whole of the Customs Law that changes the standards of the world's countries. Such actions do not fully meet the need. Now, when the customs arrangements are made, everyone thinks of different things, and I naturally think of agricultural products because there's no products in our country that haven't been imported. But there's one thing that's more serious than that -- the arrangements for imported products are usually made when you plant or when you harvest. For example, the farmer who harvests the wheat, one minute the customs resets. So the manufacturer, the farmer, gets away from production. TÜİK data has been released today, and production reaching 9 per cent of wheat is expected to decrease. To do that, we have to give up understanding that the customs entrance has been reset and that the farmer has been shot in Turkey. When we were a self-sufficient country, today we became an importer country. Of course, when I became a congressman, I also started following products that had reset this customs, and as a member of parliament, I learned about the existence of an animal called fucking bardo, when its imports from abroad were zeroed out. Yeah, I looked up what this animal is, it's the mule's cousin. The customs of his giblet entering this country have been reset. But there's a more dire situation: we ask the ministers who import Turkish imports, who delivers goods from customs, and they call it the Tickari secret. What is the trade secret of the one who brings meat to Turkey, the one who brings wheat? That's what we want to know now. I wonder who's hitting here. Because when there are products produced in our country, it's possible to support our own farmer and overcome problems in this context, but to reset the customs and bring other countries' products into Turkey while planting the produce in this context, it's the worst thing to do to this country. (CHEERING) Someone's got to be involved. Dear friends, I asked the Minister: how many chickpeas did you import in 2018? The minister's response: the chickpeas were not imported in 2018. I then opened the TÜİK data, and it was imported at 160,000 tons of chickpeas. So, who do we trust now? The minister says that nohut wasn't imported in 2018. The TÜİK says that the chickpeas were imported in 2018. It doesn't match the data of the ministries. So we've been giving the ministers a question proposal lately, and the answer is this: we're asking from the Ministry. If we were to ask, we also know the value of TÜİK. Because even the numbers don't match anymore. Besides, diseased animals pass through customs and enter Turkey. Of course, in addition, animal diseases enter our country through imports, such as Mediterranean flies or tomato moths, but they don't pass through customs of other countries while importing them abroad. How is it that tomato moths and Mediterranean fly products in our country have been able to pass through customs and cause diseases that have hit our local manufacturer? This is a case that confuses me about customs. We asked about it, and we said, "There is sickness in the meat from abroad." No, that's what they said. Next thing we know, six months later, he's declared that those meats are diseased and that he's decided to destroy the Ministry. So we're putting someone else's diseased seed into this country, while the product that goes in and out of customs is thoroughly examined and no other country about that product is returning it. The potato product has narrowed down production in 27 counties due to the disease, or potato cancer, which is called the "potato." We carried the potato seed disease from our customs to the land of the soil. Why haven't these been vetted enough? We're having a big problem with potatoes right now. He needs incentive to sell abroad, and so far he hasn't been. Can't we just give him the incentive while the manufacturer has him and open his way to selling abroad?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0315par0533	Just a minute, please.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0314par0534	Right now, potatoes are 50 cents, cost 90 cents.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0316par0535	Potato makers make money, don't they?
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0314par0536	I'll explain this in detail next week with data. Our farmer's a victim of that, but since I have something to say about customs today, I've given up potatoes next week. But again, if there's going to be a customs arrangement, let's have proper control of the products entering this country. Why and why they're imported, citizens, who hit the trade secret with the reset customs, and who wants to see them, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0317par0538	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first joke of the 16th article of the current Customs Law Proposal for Change, we propose and re-organise the text of the substance by replacing it with a new statement. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Eskişehir MP Arlekcuoğlu wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Shellguy.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0318par0551	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on the 16th Amendment to the Customs Law. With this amendment, a word referred to in the 317-word article of the Customs Law is highly classified: privacy. According to the Turkish Language Foundation dictionary, the secret means the unknown, the unknown, hidden from others, unprovoked, hidden. What's the point of hiding with this amendment? The procedure, as in 2011, is a reduction in customs taxes through compromise. As a result of this change, it is intended to conceal how much benefits are being made to others. The framework of this secrecy has been obscured. This clause is the legal basis of the compromise institution in customs duties and penalties. That's why there are more important principles in the book that need to be kept secret. These principles are the principle of justice in taxation, the principle of law safety and the principle of equality. The negotiating agency and the customs administration seem to be giving up part of customs duties and penalties. This gives the impression that the authority to tax in customs is used by the executive body instead of the legislative body. Now, those three principles that I've just mentioned are important to eliminate this authority. The lack of the lower and upper limit of the amount of tax and fines to be agreed on by what criteria will be agreed on by the customs taxes and penalties provides flexibility and extenuation. The administration must adhere to the limits of the legislator when negotiating compromises so that the principle of stability in the rules does not break. The negotiating institution can be abused by people who have no good intentions; when the property is imported into the house, it should be subject to 30 per cent customs duties, but after its implementation as 20 per cent, the actual tax must be collected naturally short when the difference is reached on compromise. It is not safe for this to be a continuum. In order to address this challenge, we believe that the regulation for the record of the taxpayers who had previously had disagreements with the customs administration should be part of the law. A total of 13,000 applications to the negotiating institution from 2011 to 2015. 1,800 of these applications have been discussed, with an agreement reached at 11.100, and 700 applications have not been reached. It is true that the institution has eased the burden of justice, but since there are no frameworks for how the government who makes the compromise will act and what amount of compromises it will make, there may also be cases in violation of the principle of equality mentioned in the 10th article of our Constitution, and may be possible in the future. The fact that this framework was not drawn by the legislator may lead to different consequences for the two negotiations in the same legal position. For one, the amount of compromise may be too high and the amount of disparity may be too small for the other. Dear lawmakers, we think it would be appropriate for this matter to withdraw and prepare a revised substance, which is in accordance with the principle of equality and whose framework is defined by the participation of all parties, to remove the concerns of our nation. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0319par0560	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 17th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We demand and demand that the application of the Law shall be added after the declaration of legislation imposed on these laws and customs, which is in the draft of Article 9 of Article No. 4458, which is scheduled to be changed under Article 17 of the Law Against the Amendment of Customs Law. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. He wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0320par0575	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the GOOD PARTY Group to discuss the 17th amendment of the law proposal. I salute you all with the utmost respect. Before I begin my speech, I'd like to make a point. Mr. Kahramanmarash, who was quoted earlier today in the session, spoke of a very valuable traffic problem at Trabzon Street in Bahramarash. Hodja, there's a Kahramanmarash Street in Tripoli, and I'm afraid we have the same traffic problem. I hereby convey my regards to our dear citizens of Kahramanmarash, our dear citizens. Hopefully, the traffic problem of Kahramanmarash Street in Tripoli will also be solved, and the problem of Trabzon Street in Kahramanmarash will be solved, and I salute you all again. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Honourable lawmakers have stated that customs advisors and customs assistants who have been acting in violation of customs laws and customs regulations under Article 17 of the proposal will not be allowed to monitor work in customs for more than six months if necessary by the Trade Ministry inspectors and the director of customs and foreign trade districts. However, the terms of the provisions here include a very large area. Which is why I'm saying the frame of permission papers should be clearly drawn in which cases they can be taken temporarily. Because this could be a victim of personal disagreements. People's careers should not be left at the mercy of those who control them. Dear lawmakers, I would like to take this opportunity to present some of the difficulties that have been delivered to my side during talks with our exporters regarding the changes in the legislation. Our exporters said that the amount that was paid to the office staff, which had been collected from them in customs and had been working overtime, caused a huge increase in costs for exporters. Again, our exporters have expressed that it is a great contradiction to collect a large amount of hard work from the customs administration when the overtime fees paid to officers or officials in all public institutions outside of office hours are paid from their own budget -- in other words, when they are covered by funds from the general budget. Our exporters demand that this double standard be removed, that the excessive labour fee be paid from the institution's budget resources to personnel, or that the work system be brought to a 24-hour shift based basis, as in the developed country's samples in customs. Another request from our exporters is about paperless export operations. Unpapered export operations have been initiated so customs can operate in a paper-free environment, and the taxpayers can now perform their statement through digital processing without issuing a statement to customs in the paper environment. It's a good practice, and it's a good practice, but let me also explain here: there's no logical explanation for this fee being raised to $5.00 in a paper environment when you charge $3 for the statements given earlier in the paper environment and the printing of customs. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address here a problem of international transport in my district. Our movers complain deeply about the lack of transit quotas in transports to Russia and other countries via Russia. Due to the inadequacy of these documents, the transports are failing and therefore our exports are failing. I call upon the authorities to address this problem, and salute you with all due respect.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0321par0584	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement taken in Article 17 of the Common Customs Law shall be changed officially on the date when the investigation begins. Saliha Sera Kadıgil Müzeyyen Sevkin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Aydın Özer Ahmet Akin Tacettin Bayır Turan Aydoğan Hussein Yıldız Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Saliha Sera Qadıgil wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0322par0599	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have taken a pledge on the 17th amendment to Customs Law 104, which I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly. The amendment gives ministry inspectors and directors the authority to suspend the permissions of those who violated customs regulations or were prosecuted because of the second joke of the 7th Article of the Anti-Terror Law. The first is a term called customs legislation, which includes laws, regulations, regulations, and even generalities, with no end. Even with the slightest financial error, it is unacceptable to insist that the counselors' permission slips be suspended. If the matter is to be revised, a clearer framework should be drawn in terms of time, as well as in conditions, not so easy to play with people's bread. Secondly, and more importantly, TMK is a legal and fundamentally illegal proposal about Article 7/2. This article of the Anti-Terror Law is a law which some judges under guardianship love, which has recently added to their usual use, and is hanging over all opponents like the sword of Damocles. Because where we come from, you don't even have to be a member of a terrorist organization or call for violence to be declared a criminal, traitor, terrorist. In modern-day Turkey, sanctions under this clause have been deeply branched and twisted in the shadow of the only person in control and in control due to the fear of losing self-control. The entire state of the Republic of Turkey has been transformed into a semi-open prison in an endless form of paranoia. Apart from being a member of a terrorist organization, new crimes have been invented, such as helping the organization, not helping it, not helping it, not propaganda, not being involved in terrorism, not even in contact with terrorist organisations, but even in elbow contact with supporters of the terrorist organization. Today Turkey is so miserable about freedom of expression that 40 of its 77 violations of the right to freedom of expression issued by the European Court of Human Rights in 2018 are the decisions that condemn Turkey. It's a pity our country doesn't lose its first place in violating the right to freedom of expression. The smallest opposition voice, without any calls for violence, is being punished under the name of the so-called prosecutor and judges, who have taken the honor of their robe, even sharing any thought explanation and even any news from social media accounts. The substance we discussed in the proposal has opened such a ridiculous, illegal use space that even the government has felt the need to make an absurd change, such as explaining and reporting to the relevant material in its package of judicial makeup from parliament. The academics who express their opinion alone, the journalists who do their job, the lawyers who want justice, the representatives of the political party, the students who seek their rights, the teachers who say, "Don't let the children die." It's a sledgehammer that lands on the head of anyone who makes a little infraction. We all know what an understanding that doesn't require arresting elected mayors in the face of millions can do on the basis of this clause to a customs consultant who doesn't act on his own terms. It's not the bureaucrats who decide whether a person is guilty or not. It's the courts. One of the most known, universal, important principles of the law is that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. However, with this change, those who are in the process of resuscitation, or those who have been alleged to have violated any corner of customs legislation, will be left with their bread and will be without employment for months. It is not surprising, though, that such an offer was brought to parliament in a country where tens of thousands of people were sentenced to almost civilian death by lawless KHKs. But as we've done so many times, once again, it's important to remind those who think they're capable of bending the law the way it suits them, that the same law will always be needed for them one day. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Whatever happened yesterday, the fate of those who convicted the honorable officers of the Turkish army in Silivri dungeons with the plots of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer will be the same for those who disregard the nation's economics for their own sake. But let them not wonder, that when that day comes, those who will do their utmost to make sure that they are judged justly, again, are the foundation of justice. Those who guide their understanding will be the true patriots of this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0323par0608	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 18th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 18th article of the current Customs Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Akin Müzeyyen Sevkin Tacettin Bayır Jale Nur Sullı Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Aydın Özer Hussein Yıldız Turan Aydoğan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Eskişehir MP Jale Nur Sullü wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0324par0624	Mr. President, I'd like to invite you to consider the recent events of the 18th Amendment we're discussing. Caner was six years old who shot himself with his uncle's gun in Esenyurt, and North was only 10 years old who shot himself at his grandfather's workplace in Elazığ. When two cousins aged 15 and 16 were playing a gun in Antioch, C. S lost his life, S. A's been seriously injured. In 2019, Ayşe Acar, who was killed by her divorced wife, was only one of the 49 women who were killed by firearms, the ex-wife, and the lover. And let us not forget Helin, who was shot with a shotgun that he bought online after school. Hayati Özkaya, who was shot on a motorcycle with a 5-year-old child in his lap, was the victim of those seeking justice, and his only crime was to pass through it at that moment. Having watched television with his grandfather on the terrace at Gaziantep, 11 - year - old Emin added Jonah Star to the number of stray bullets at the wedding. Didn't Nadira Kadirova, 23 years old, just last month, die with a licensed gun from the MP's gun? On average, 4,500 people die each year in Turkey with firearms. They're left with bleeding hearts in their TV broadcast archives or in the newspaper lines that fade away. But they all had days to live, and suddenly they were torn from life by exploding weapons. As Anton Chekhov said, if there is a gun on the stage, it will explode. [[Applause from CHP rows]] According to the research of Hope Foundation, which dedicated its entire life to disarming Hope in memory of Hope, 57 percent of the weapons acquired for protection are pointed at the nearest gun owner. According to the Foundation's January 2019 report, armed violence has increased 69% in the last four years. In 2018 3,679 people died with firearms and 3,762 were injured. However, individual weapons pose a serious threat to the right to live, social peace and peace environment. According to the report of the Special Security Agency 2017, the number of licensed weapons has declined in recent years, while the number of unlicensed weapons has increased. Crimes committed with unlicensed weapons are six times the number of crimes committed with licensed weapons. This indicates that control mechanisms are weakening, that unregisteredness is increasing, and that they can have easy weapons. With the ease of gun purchase, the individual becomes a potential source of violence. The increase in violence under AKP administration over the past 17 years has been linked to increased weapons. A reduction in gun prices at Machine Chemical Industries, a change in the regulation in 2018, an increase in the right to bullets from 200 to 1,000, and the recognition of the ability to carry arms to certain groups, has played a role in boosting individual arms. Individual arms must be prevented from increasing by the state's hands. Cigarettes are banned in private vehicles for public health, and liquor sales are limited to hours and age, while even under 18 years of age can easily buy firearms from hunting dealerships, while cargo and pay weapons are sold at the door with advertising on social media. Smoking images are punishable on television, while TV scenes that encourage gun use and violence are broadcast without obstruction. Even in a single episode, countless murders, massacres are being committed, show heroes in their homes, as good father, good wife, good son, so that they are presented to the audience in the image that crime will go unpunished. Hence, it is encouraged to own and use weapons to be routineized. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, a moment, please.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0325par0635	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0324par0636	In our country, where authority is growing, trust in justice and judicial institutions has become increasingly widespread, the search for a weapon to ensure its own justice. As a society, we're tired of the news of blood-freezing violence and death. Our right to live is threatened just as our social peace and peace have been corrupted. It is the state's top priority to take measures for individual arming to protect citizens' rights and safety. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I invite the General Assembly to implement laws aimed at eliminating the threat of individual arms. Remember, if there's a gun on stage, it'll go off sooner or later. If we don't get the guns out of all the scenes of social life quickly, a new one will be added to the news of violence and death every day, and we will all be responsible for that. I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0325par0639	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Good Name, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0326par0643	Thank you, Mr. President. The northern part of Syria is now divided into parts like the parts of the pussle, a parcel, whose neighbour is unknown. In Ankara, the vice president of the United States, Mr. Erdogan was seated as co-chair of a table. Terrorists were said not to be dealt with, but the United States, which sent tens of thousands of trucks to the YPG/PYD, was the host of the victim in Pennsylvania, has been dealt with as both the protector and spokesman of the enemies of Turkey. And terrorists aren't on the table, but they're on the end of the phone. The author of the arrogant letter, which has yet to be answered, is a Twitter maniac who announced the so-called ceasefire before they left the table. In the heart of Ankara, shortly after this Atlantic weather, we are now in the influence of cold northern winds from Russia. In short, Turkey is floating in international waters in the hands of a captain who has no distant vision. We are still at Bandırma Vapur, as the Republican People's Party, and we say, "Come, let us write that blessed story again." Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0327par0650	I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 18 of the Law Proposal be reorganised in the following manner. MADDE 18-10/7/1953 dated "Hotfire Weapons and Knifes 6136" and Article 7 of Article 7 of the Law on Other Tools (4) added the first joke (B) to the subcommittee of the "f) Trade Ministry's General Directorate, Vice General Director of Customs, Deputy Director of Trafficking and Intelligence of the Central and Country Department, Regional Manager, Section Chief of Foreign Affairs, Section Chief of Customs and Customs Officer's Office (B) added to the third statement "containment and documents" following the ibar of the Ministry of Customs (B) and the subsidiary of the Department (B) as well as the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Deputy Director of Foreign Affairs, and the Deputy Director of Foreign Affairs, the Chief of Foreign Affairs and Security. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Anthalya MP Feridun Bahshi wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0328par0662	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 18th Amendment to Customs Law 104, and I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we go into our views on the matter, I'd like to address a few social issues. First of all, we always call it EYT, EYT, EYT... we know that the AK PARTY is very uncomfortable with bringing the matter up. You want the victims, the despairs, to never come up, and you want to live comfortably, and the victims to continue. But we will continue to disturb you, especially in the case of our society's distress. Until when? Until the problems are solved radically. In the general elections, each party's promise was a solution to the EYT. Until the votes were taken, the people in despair were deceived and deceived, forgotten by the AK PARTY after the votes were received. BY GOOD PARTY MPs, we've asked or proposed several times. Our proposals and proposals were not either downloaded to the General Assembly or rejected. We have already stated: "You may not like our proposals for the law, but we respect it. So, you bring the proposal, and we'll be supportive, and we'll solve the problems of these people who are legally victimized. We said, "No sound again." We're repeating this offer: Here, bring in the proposal, we'll support it, but you don't want to come up with a solution. There's no advocacy here, you don't try to figure it out. Another issue is the removal of the 35-year-old line of entry into the public as officers of the A and B staff. The 35-year-old limit set in entry to the officers listed in Act 657 must be made in line with the European Union and the border in the developed countries. More jobs must be provided for those who have merit and experience in the public and private sector. Guys, if we could just keep it down, it's too loud.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0329par0666	Just a minute, Congressman. Mr. Recep, take care of your friends, they're having a chat there, so take responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, especially for you, our AK PARTY brothers say you're making a lot of noise, our brother's here.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0330par0669	We're listening, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0331par0670	Thank you, listeners. In addition, the 35-year-old limit must be lifted in order for more jurists with knowledge and experience required by the profession of judge and prosecutors to apply for judge nominations and to increase their confidence in the judiciary. We have submitted our proposal for the law on this matter to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We have citizens waiting to be brought up as soon as possible. Dear MPs, we have students in our country who receive support from private education and healing centers, or former rehab centers. Special education teachers who graduate from the special education department in private education and healing centres also work, with mental disability, deaf teachers, visually impaired teachers, and teachers who do not graduate from the special education department and complete the special education certificate programme. Teachers who are not educated in private education and healing centres face many problems in the institutions they work at. In the beginning of these problems, there is a staff problem. Our teachers don't even practice summer vacations. A teacher who attends 40 hours a week is worn out both physically and spiritually. Dear friends, counselors and counselors have similar problems. With rapid social change, children and young people have increased in problems such as drugs and violence, running away from home, school failure, and attendance in school. Therefore, counseling and guidance services are vital to the future of our country. In schools, guidance staff is understaffed.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0332par0675	Pack it up, Mr. Bahshi.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0331par0676	Despite this inadequacy, the number of appointments has been kept very low, and illegal assignments are being set aside to complete this lack. Therefore, all guidance counselors in the field must be transferred to their psych advisors and made new appointments. Again, another issue is the problem of agricultural policy in the country. In order for Turkey to have a say in agriculture and reach competitive levels, the ongoing structural problems of agriculture must be resolved. Agriculture and trade policies must be strengthened, rural development policies must be integrated with agricultural policies. Agricultural supports must be maintained in line with its purpose and its effects should be increased. To survive the sustainable competitiveness of the agricultural sector and small producers, the special consumption tax for agricultural production must be removed, and even the gas reduction on the yacht must be applied to the small farmer. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0333par0680	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in the framework Article 18 of Law Proposal 104 that is being discussed in the following way. Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Bekir Kum Erim Salih Cora Selim Gültekin Ramazan Can Mehmet Doğan Kubat Article 7 of the Law on Firearms and Knifes and Other Tools has been changed as follows, dated 18-10/7/1953. 7 - Only firearms; 1. The President, the Prime Minister, the Vice President, the Ministers, members of the Legislature and the Deputy Ministers, 2. Those who are authorized to carry arms under special law, 3. Officials and members of the state, municipality, private administration and public economic initiatives, which have been decided to carry arms by the President's decision, 4. A) As a result of the court decision or sentence issued against them, the Turkish Armed Forces of 3269 is the third joke of Article 16 of the Law 3269, and those discharged from the General Command and Coast Guard Command are subject to the process of dissolution of their rank due to disciplinary or moral status under Article 3269 and Article 12 of the Law under Article 12 of Dissolution under Article 3469, the first clause of Article of Article 926, the first article of Article of Article of Article 926 (c) of Article 926 (c), the third joke of Article of the Law 3269, and the discharge of Law on Article 3466 under Article 15th Article of Law under the rules of disciplinary or moral conditions of disciplinary action, the Article 3269, the failure of the Law under Article 12 of the Law under Article 12th Article of the Law under Article of Discipline or Article of Disciplintration of the Law on Article No. A) From the governor, deputy governor, the governor, and the office of the governor, or the management of the estate, B) The judge and the prosecutor of the Republic and a member of this profession, C) From staff members, including the law enforcement class, d) From members of MIT services, e) From the ambassador's titles, f) President Chief of Staff of the presidential headquarters and the top executives of the presidential institutions and institutions and the president's chief of staff, G) General Director of Customs Protection, Deputy Director General, Head of the Bureau and Director of Trafficking and Intelligence of the Central and Country Organization, Regional Chief, Section Chief of Customs and Customs Protection Officer, Ü) Chief inspectors and controllers of the Department of Corrections, first and second managers, executive officers, heads of execution and protection and assistant managers of supervised freedom and managers, H) From forest rangers and forest chiefs, Retired. 5. On the basis of the regulation issued by the president, 6. Those of the security guards assigned under Article 442 under Article 74 of the Law of the Village, who are already in charge of Article 16 of the same Law, and who have been cut off from their duties according to Article 27/5/2007 by Village Law 5673 and Article 1st of the Law on Change in some Laws, Seven. Other than those who were suspended after the investigation or the final judgment, and those who had been appointed mayor of the village or neighborhood, including those who had been elected to act against the national security of the state, the structure, the formation or groups, the mensublikaş or those who had contact with them, and those who had been elected to be the mayor of the village or the municipality at least one time. They can carry them or keep them at home or at work. Those who take advantage of the subcommittee (A) of the first joke can or may carry firearms, provided that they are registered in the Security Directorate, the Coast Guard Command, or the General Command of the Gendarmes, and are provided with documents provided by these authorities. Such documents are substituted for a permit for transport or possession. The first joke is that the weapons of those listed in Bents (1), (2), (3) and (4), number 2453, Transferred to Employees (6) and (7) will receive the highest number of weapons they can obtain in the Law on Monthly Bonds, Transferment to some Public Servants of Number 5434 and Monthly Law on the 64th Article of Turkish Republic's Retirement and Monthly Bonding, 2-330, to the Law on the Tax Reparation and Monthly Bonding, to the Law, 2453, and to the Non-Substantial Officers, and to the Non-Substantial Protection Act on Charges, and to the Non-Substantial Protection Act on Charges, and to the Non-Substantries, under the Law on Charges, under the Law, and undertones, under the Law, under the Law, and undertones of the Law, under the Law, under the Law, and undertones of the Act, undertones, under the Act, and the Act, under the Act, under the Act, under the Act, and the Act, under the Act, under the Act, and undertones of the Act, undertones of the Act, and undertones, and undertones, and the Act, underlying the Act, under the Act, under the Act, and the Act, under the Act, under the Act, and the Act, undertones of the Act, and undertones of the Act, and the Act, and undertones of Security, undertones, undertones of the Act, underlying Weapons, undertones of the Act, and the Act, and the Act, and the Act, under the Act, and the Act, and the Act, and the Act of the Act, and the Act, and the Act, under the Act, and the Act, and the Names, undertones of Security, underlying Weapons of the Act, and the Act, undertones of Security, and the Act, and the Act, and the Names, underlying Weapons of Security, and undertones, underpins, and the Act, and the Names, underpins, and the Names, undertones, undertones, and the Act, underlying Weapons, underlying Weapons, and the Names of In peace or in extraordinary situations, any activity, training, exercise and maneuvers, or in groups of people who die due to the causes and effects of these operations and services are exempted from all taxes, pictures, and mortars, provided only one of their parents, spouses and children is limited to a firearm. The procedure and the basis for the organisation and renovation of documents and retrieval of documents that authorise weapons are organised by the National Defence and Interior Ministry in a joint regulation. Those convicted of crimes described in Sections Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh of the Second Book of Turkish Penal Code 26/9/2004 and 5237 cannot be allowed to carry and possess firearms, even if they are pardoned for crimes involving Anti-Terror Law 3713. Those convicted of crimes committed with firearms and sentenced to more than a year in prison cannot be allowed to carry and possess firearms until five years have passed since the execution of the convicted sentence has been completed and the rights prohibited to them have been rescinded. Under the Law on Protection of Family and Protection of Violence Against Women, dated 8/3/2012 and under the Law on Protection of Women, you are not allowed to carry and possess firearms during the decision of the measures, if you have a permit, and you will be suspended. Their licensed weapons will be kept by the general law enforcement force until the decision of the measures is lifted. Does the commission agree with the motion? We have sufficient majority, Mr. President. No one wants to talk about the motion. It is intended to ensure the use of law enforcement personnel who have left the general law enforcement staff after completing their mandatory service, as well as the use of security services personnel who have left the Security Directorate, and to ensure that some public officials who are at security risk for their duties have a right to pensions while they are in charge of their pocketless weapons license, and to provide the right to weapons licenses to Cyprus and Korean veterans without an allowance. The second book of Turkish Penal Code No. 26/9/2004 was intended to grant weapons licenses to those convicted of crimes described in Sections Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh, after the completion of the sentence, for those convicted of crimes under the Law on Anti-Terrorism, for those convicted of other crimes in no way, and for those convicted of misdeeds, to be granted their rights after five years after the execution of the sentence has been completed. In addition, measures on preventing violence against women and children are under way to prevent access to firearms immediately by those who have been given a decision to take precautions. I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 19th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the 19th amendment of the 19th Amendment to Customs Law be revised in the following manner. The first article of Article 8 of Law No. 19 - 6136 added: "The gun and bullets bought by the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Commerce have been added to the employee's authority to carry arms in the central and rural community. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Anthalya MP Feridun Bahshi wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0334par0738	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 19th Amendment to the Customs Law. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, there are serious problems with cash, which is the vital cycle of trade. The firms and the tradesmen are unable to collect. A commercial firm or a tradesman's main goal is profit. Profits are worth adding to life. How important is the profit? Maybe another important thing is cash flow. There are also problems with cash flow, which means there is no collection and no payment commitments. As a result, significant problems arise that lead to bankruptcy. In our country, the financing of trade is mainly provided by the more long-term sales that companies and traders make to each other and finally to consumers. Some of them are open accounts. Stocks and checks are also the most important means of future trade. The essence of future transactions is trust and dignity. Every day, because of growing difficulties in the economy, the citizen is having trouble paying his debt, or even unable to pay it fully. This brings the trade to an end. Dear MPs, a country's border, its border is the honor and honor of that country. The border is not just an imaginary line to us. Today, the borders of national states are earned by the great struggles of the nations, drawn by the blood of their ancestors. Unfortunately, our border gates and borders are riddled with holes as a result of false foreign policies imposed by the EC PARTY. In particular, it is no longer possible to talk about security on our southern borders for a long time. As terrorists cross the border freely, any contraband can enter the country. If there's anything as dangerous as terrorists crossing the border, it's the contraband brought by terrorists or smugglers. The rate of smuggling in fuel, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, tea and sugar is far higher than estimates. In the heart of Ankara, especially in the nation's region, illegal cigarette stalls, all kinds of illegal liquor sales, the majority of the fugitive mazots sold in oil stations we first heard about on interstates are now at both economic and tax-effective points. The diesel, which is $6.70 in a station, can be sold for $5.60 at the next station. These goods, which enter the country's market in fake and inferior fashion, are interested in the cheapness of prices, preferential, and, unfortunately, threaten the integrity of public health and diesel vehicles. It should not be forgotten that all kinds of drugs have been smuggled into our country due to insecurity and lack of control at the borders. Drug use in our country, which is on the route of drugs produced in countries such as Afghanistan and Pakistan, has reached dangerous levels from day to day. The lives of young people and families who consume these substances are also blackened. Besides, most of the people who bring these substances into our country and trade them are members of a separatist terrorist organization, and the money they earn comes back to our military, our police, lead. Therefore, the foreign policies of the EC PARTY both externally and internally corrode our country. Our borders, customs, must be taken care of at all costs, so policies must be first established. Dear lawmakers, another issue I would like to bring up is the issue of 3,600 additional indicators. You promised to arrange for 3600 additional indicators for the officers. It's been 15 months since your election. So far, no concrete steps have been taken by the first party to resolve the problem. We offer not only imams, teachers, nurses and police, but 3,600 additional indicators to all public personnel, including court and finance personnel. The 3,600 additional indicators concerning millions of public employees must be implemented immediately. With these thoughts, I salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0335par0748	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to be replaced by the Ministry of Trade, which is part of Article 19 of the proposed Customs Law. Hasan Baltacı Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Turan Aydoğan Tacettin Bayır Aydın Özer Müzeyyen Sevkin Hüseyin Yıldız Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Kastamonon MP Hasan Baltacı wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Hasan.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0336par0763	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First, I'm going to talk about something about my constituency, about the import tax, and then I'm going to answer a review of the ruling party from here. First of all, I want to mention that the import tax has recently been severely hit by the production of the geographical sign of the Tasköpru yellow rights produced in Kastamonu. Dear friends, you know that recently -- in products you've encountered on the market -- one of the most growing products of inflation has been the Tasköpru garlic. But the most important reason for increasing the price of the yellow right has been the hailing catastrophes in Kastamon, the Tasköpru. Now, your government has dropped a thousand dollars in import taxes on garlic without the wounds of this hailing disaster. But what we have to do is protect the garlic manufacturer, give more support, correct the Farmers' Recording System, expand farmers' agricultural insurance, while we're taking a reduction in import tax, and we're taking a heavy blow to the Taşkörrü garlic. I wish the import tax would be lifted as soon as possible. Secondly, there's a criticism from the ruling party -- it's not possible to disagree with this criticism -- but I want to stress the fact that we're talking about the Customs Law here, we're talking about the Customs Law here, the opposition lawmakers are talking about their own agendas. Yes, right, if we want to conduct a quality legislative activity here, we have to talk about the law proposals that came to parliament, but I have a number that came to me as of October 1st 2019, the Turkish Grand National Assembly has given the AKP 163 law proposals, the Republican People's Party has submitted 130, the law proposals, and the MP has submitted 1. But no law offer made by the opposition was discussed on this stand. If you ignore the opposition, then, of course, the opposition will speak of the true agenda of the people. As long as you don't bring the expectations of society, the needs of society, the law proposals that respect society's demands here, we'll continue to discuss the real problems of society here by making motions. Why am I giving this warning, my dear friends? If a community can't talk about its own problems in its own Assembly, it will seek solutions elsewhere, dear friends. Today there are examples of this in the world; you see the example in Chile, and you see the example in Lebanon. So I'd like to give you two examples of Turkey's dear friends: Today Entil, Hapalki and Tarkon, who work in the Entil, Hapalki and Tarkon factories in Olivetoglu, who have not received their wages for four months, wanted to make a press statement at the United Metal-Work Union in DİSK. The gas was sprayed on those workers who wanted to make a press statement, three workers were injured, 29 workers were taken into custody, dear friends. If this council does not discuss the real problems of workers, workers, peasants, young people, unemployed people, then society will find other places to talk to itself, and the streets will become more and more active. You may have stopped it today, dear friends. I'm just telling you, I want you to listen, I want you to listen to these workers. If you do not listen to the demands of the workers in Eskişehir today, if you ignore the demands of the workers in Soma Yesterday, you will hear more of the footsteps of the workers. (CHP applause) You may have cut him off today, but I want to point out that the working class has always given its historical answer to those who obstruct their own rights struggle. This is the footsteps of the workers, dear friends, coming slowly, slowly, slowly, but confidently towards Ankara. Yesterday you stopped him in Soma, today you stopped him in Eskişehir, but you won't be able to stop him from coming to Ankara at this rate, dear friends. So let's talk about the real problems of this country on this bench, and let's build quality legislature on it. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0337par0771	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change of the 19th article of the current Law Proposal 104 rows in the following manner. Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Bekir Kum Selim Gültekin Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Cora Mohammed Levent Bulbül The first sentence of Article 8 of Law 19-6136 has been changed as follows. The pistols and bullets provided by the President's office are for the protection staff of the Presidential Protection Service and for their commanders; the pistols and bullets provided by the Ministry of National Defence; the pistols and bullets provided by the Turkish Armed Forces; officers, petty officers and experts within the Turkish Armed Forces; the pistols and specialists provided by the General Command and Coast Guard Command; the pistols and bullets provided by the Chiefs of the Ministry of Security, and the weapons provided by the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Commerce, and the weapons provided by the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Commerce, are being used as weapons to carry weapons and weapons, and weapons for the use of their own bodies. Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOLOGIES, INFORMATION AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE COMMISSION - We leave it to appreciation, Mr. President. No one wants to talk about the motion. I'm having it read. The pistols and bullets provided by the president's office are intended to be sold to the bodyguard staff at the Presidential Protection Service General Directorate and to their superiors as military weapons. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted on Article 19, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, it is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which requires that a clause not be changed in the commission text but which has a very close interest in the proposal be made, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended most of the time. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause can be discussed on the motions the commission has attended, and the number of motions specified in these articles can be submitted. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission joins in the motion with only 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if the Commission simply disagrees, I will remove the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit to Law Proposal 104 that the framework should be added after Article 19 and that other substances should be identified accordingly. Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Özgür Special Mohammed Levent Bulbül Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik "MEDDE 20 - 11/9/1981 adds the following clause to the construction, purchase, sale, and discovery of rifles used in the hunt and sport, engagement pistols, and hunting knives. "EK MADDE 1- 8/3/2012, under the Law on Protection of Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women, those who have been given measures under the Law shall not be allowed to carry, or possess, unwarranted shotguns, sports and rifle and pistols, if available, to be granted licenses and renovations if available. Under these laws, the riveted hunting rifles, sports and sniper rifles and pistols that are available to them are protected by the general law enforcement force until the measure is lifted. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, ENERGY LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION Since the commission has only participated in the motion, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone? No. I submit the new clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the new clause has been accepted and a new clause has been added to the proposal. In order not to cause any confusion, after this, the current number of motions on substances will continue through the material numbers in the text, while the number of items in the text will be identified during the writing of the law. The commission demands a review. Here you go. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMI COMMI CENTER MUSTAFA LITAS (PLAY) Mr. President, due to a proposal that we have just adopted, there has been a discrepancy between the title and the content of the proposal. In order to be more in line with the law-making technique, we respectfully submit to your appreciation for our request for a revision of the title of the proposal in the form of the Law's Proposal for Change in Some Laws. Your request for editing is on the record. If the proposed proposal is accepted, the process of redacting will be carried out by our president. Dear lawmakers have reached our joint chairmanship, signed by political party groups present at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, I'm reading this statement: We, the political party groups present at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, reject and condemn the decision, which was adopted today in the European Parliament on behalf of our great nation, on behalf of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, on the part of our country's campaign against terrorism in northern Syria. [[Applause]] Under our right to self-defense based on the 51st Amendment of the United Nations, and the action carried out under international law under the UN Security Council's decisions on the fight against terrorism, the PKK's Syrian arm has been targeted by the PYD/YPG elements and such elements as shelters, shelters, positions, weapons, tools and equipment. All necessary measures have been made to ensure that civilians and civilian infrastructure are not harmed. In fact, these issues have been made public on every occasion by our relevant institutions. All the allegations in the European Parliament's decision have thus far been repeatedly denied or necessary explanations by our relevant authorities in our discussions with international public opinion and foreign contacts at the highest level. Instead of showing solidarity with Turkey in the fight against terrorism, we once again need to remind the European Parliament, which prefers to keep a terrorist organisation in line and serve its agenda, that the PKK is also considered a terrorist organisation by the European Union and NATO. We declare to the public that we have never accepted such decisions targeting the institutions of the Republic of Turkey, that we have seen this decision in the capacity to cause the most serious problems for the common interests of Europe, that we have expressed the common commitment and solidarity of our nation against any kind of action, that the executive body has the right to respond in accordance with international requisite. Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu Free Special Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Mohammed Levent Bul Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Nationalist Movement Party GOOD PARTY His group is acting president of the vice president group. There are two motions on the 20th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and re-organise Article 20 of the Law Proposal in the following manner. 20 - 10 days after the publication of this Law. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Yasin Ozturk Imam Hussein Filiz Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Gaziantep MP Imam Hussein Flitz wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Here you go, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0338par0846	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion made by our group on the 20th Amendment to the Customs Law. I salute the General Assembly. Speaking of the Customs Law, I thought it would be hard to pass past the former Minister of Customs and Tekel, the statesman, Gün Sazak Bey. When he was Minister of Customs and Tekel, he took extensive measures against corruption, smuggling, and fought hard and earned the appreciation of every section, but during his Ministry, Gün Sazak was killed on 27 May 1980 by the Dev-Sol subcontractors of a number of groups who had acquired profits from some type of mafia, especially through smuggling or customs bribes. I remember him with mercy and gratitude and prayer, and his place will be in heaven. Dear lawmakers, all the articles have been discussed so far, I won't dwell on them, but I'm going to talk about a few issues concerning the rights of customs managers. In the centre, when taking the title of expert and superior, the managers in the country are not given this right to the customs managers who oversee and direct the business. That's not fair. The other thing is about carrying a gun. Although the 18th article has just been modified, it has been suggested that those with the title of customs personnel, vice president, head of the agency, head of the central and rural community, head of smuggling and intelligence, district chief, section chief, and customs guard, who have the title. It's understandable that customs guards are carrying weapons, but it's not clear that the others are being given weapons. If the people whose titles I'm counting need guns, why is the same kind of customs manager not on the list, and why is that not granted to them, I'd like to ask them. Dear lawmakers, Law 4458, which has been changed, has been passed on October 27, 1999, but has been changed 25 times so far. Even though there may be changes due to the need, it is imperative to keep a high profile when the laws are being passed and the views of those responsible and those who apply them are being taken. Another issue is that the law's implementation of the field must be justified, otherwise corruption and trafficking will continue. No matter how you set up a system, no matter how you make a law, no matter how you make a law, no matter how you make it, there's no way you're going to succeed. In fact, righteousness has dominated this nation's Anatolian territory for hundreds of years, and righteousness is the basis of Turkish civilization. You need a strong teaching system, strong universities to raise people with merit. Powerful universities are institutions of qualified education and qualified research, but universities are troubled. The universities that should not be involved in politics, unfortunately, are not successful in this, we often see examples of that. The desire to do science in Turkey, the excitement of technology development, is rapidly disappearing. Today, many scientists, academics, and young people who are concerned about not finding a job are looking for ways to live outside Turkey. Turkey is about to lose its way of raising its own scientist, its intellectual. Dear lawmakers, since imports and exports are considered after customs, both issues are related to production. If you don't set up the domestic and national production system, your production depends on imports, and therefore exports are based on imports, the high export numbers don't mean anything, nor does it destroy our poverty. What I'm trying to say is that in agriculture, we have to be Turkey, which produces industry. But as a result of years of undirected, horizonless, visionless, unplanned education and economic policies, Turkey can no longer produce. Dear lawmakers, unless there are ways to access the technology-based industry, digital technology and Industry 4.0 system, to implement technology in agriculture, we can't stop being potential markets in other countries unless our industrialists and farmers are supported. We can't produce it, but we're wasting it, and we're wasting it. Turkey has to give up waste. It should not be forgotten that waste is the right of unfinished orphans, especially Ashli. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0339par0858	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0338par0859	Dear lawmakers say once again that the only factor that determines the difference between being left behind and being strong is the distance you take in science and technology, and I give my regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0339par0861	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Mr. Yavuzylmaz...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0340par0865	Mr. President, he can't be a contracted narcotics officer, and he can't be a chartered customs officer. In this proposal of law or the next proposal of law, they must all be put on staff. The bonus payment to customs personnel who uncovered punishment and trafficking was dropped in 2009 due to a change. This substance must be rearranged. Before the statement of the 12th article of the proposal is determined by the statement stated in the 1st article of the proposal, the statement must be changed with the statement before it is announced that it will begin to be answered or audited. Otherwise, an official who understands that the coroner is going to open the container in the port area will be caught, turning himself in and reducing the sentence to 10 per cent.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0339par0871	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 20th article of the current Customs Law Proposal shall be adopted on the date of the publication of this Law. We offer and propose that it be changed in the form of the Law. Albany Antmen Müzeyyen Sevkin Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Aydın Özer Ahmet Akin Tacettin Bayır Turan Aydoğan Hussein Yıldız Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. It's Mersin MP Albany Antmen who wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0341par0885	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on the 21st amendment to Customs Law. This is the item in effect of the proposal. In this context, speaking of the Customs Law, we also need to discuss the problems of customs workers and fellow workers who work for customs. Customs consultants, for example, are still organized in the form of an association and are therefore not able to organize as a professional room. In fact, the establishment of the occupational rooms of customs advisors in the 11th Development Plan was removed from planning, unlike the Tenth Development Plan. This is very wrong in terms of discipline in the customs department's profession. In this regard, it is imperative that the occupational laws of the customs advisors be passed immediately. The fact that the customs advisors are responsible for their actions leads to great injustices for them. As with customs exports, imports must be moved immediately to a paper-free environment. Dear lawmakers, customs workers within the Ministry of Commerce have many problems, as all public workers do, that are waiting to be resolved, but are not persistently resolved. In the beginning, it is of great importance that the appointments required according to the condition of the spouse, health and disability are not taken into account, and the imbalances stemming from intergalactic periods. Unfortunately, as with every public mission, the AK PARTI has been completely disabled in its powers, in its promotional exam, in its sectionals, such as chiefs, or in its application of interviews, and the partisan stance has been definitely implemented. As you can see in all public staff purchases, many of the staff who received higher grades from the written exam are allowed to be eliminated because they are not participant in the oral exam. Basically, problems are growing like a mountain in a single man's regime, and as they grow, the usual solution is gone, lawmakers. One man and his court regime have condemned our beautiful country from economy to education, from justice to production everywhere. The lack of fair and independent judgment is abducting foreign investors from our country. The lack of foreign investment is a burden on our economy. Also, we've seen, because we're not financially strong, I'm fairly clear that because of social media and perception management in their own election, the lettermaster who became president of the United States is making a mockery of our country. As the Republican People's Party, as the Turkish nation, we, as citizens of the Republic of Turkey, insist that the AK PARTI government, especially in the matter of the letter, should kick the crap out of this person. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] The first thing that needs to be done is to end one man's regime, open the way for our country to be ruled by common mind, and make the judiciary especially neutral and independent instead of judges and prosecutors from AKP membership. Congressmans, in AKP power, we are now importing potatoes, onions, wheat. Look, when we told our children about Turkey before AKP power, we were one of seven self-sufficient countries in the world, and we were proud of it, but now all the countries are making fun of us, and after AKP power, they called it a self-eating country in the world. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to add this to the conclusion that you want to do so-called judicial reform, see, the Great Leader, Ebedî Commander-in-Chief, Grand State Man Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says about a hundred years ago, read what Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, please read: There is no need in the Constitution of a state-organized human society to explain the importance of independence of the force. The first requirement for the independence of the nations' judicial rights. The presence of a non-independent nation is unacceptable. I salute you all with my deepest love and respect.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0342par0899	Now, I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Mr. Rock, come in.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0343par0903	Thank you, Mr. President. In Tripoli, the Yanbolu-Santa Group Road, the drinking water and decontamination plant on Yanbolu-Santa Group Road, has caused a great deal of damage to our citizens who have taken the road to the construction of the company's vehicle and have used the palette-based business machines as they work. In addition, 22 school services have been under great difficulty for two months, trying to transport 243 of our students to school on this damaged road. In order to resolve the problem, service drivers who have worked for two months and who have failed to comply with their application have decided not to move students to school for three days to draw attention to the problem. From here we call on the authorities of Tripoli Metropolitan Municipality to listen to the sound of the right voices of our citizens on the way to Santa-Yankolou, to work without being blocked into traffic, and to have the road quickly corrected. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0344par0911	I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 21st article, which I will carry out with me. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st amendment of the current Customs Law Proposal be changed by the President of these Laws. Serkan Topal Müzeyyen Sevkin Ahmet Akin Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Turan Aydoğan Tacettin Bayır Hüseyin Yıldız Aydın Özer Tahsin Tarhan The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We can't participate, Mr. President. Anthalya MP Feridun Bahshi has asked for the same proposals.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0345par0929	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 21st amendment to Customs Law 104, the executive clause of the Law Proposal. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, it is the integrity of that country to protect the borders and borders of the state. Customskeepers are the top gentlemen of this country in this sense, who are the first to deal with people who come to our country; they protect the state's income, public health, the safety of the country. The problems of the Customs Protection Service that have been neglected for years must be resolved immediately. 92 per cent of the agency's employees have been declared to be graduates of the master's degree of 8 per cent, but their additional indicators are under many high schools in other institutions and even under secondary school graduates. Customskeepers have long hours, and due to the fact that the border crossings are far from the settlements, they need to be paid for their actual service. It is not proper to employ conservative officers who are armed and in uniform in general to be employed in the general class of administrative services. Security services must be assessed in a category of service, such as classrooms, and service compensations must also be redefined. There are problems with adapting to areas where customs protection personnel are subject to relocation and have served in five different regions. Many customs guards therefore have to live separately with their families. The rotation application must be revised and the number of districts must be reduced by redesigning temporary assignments from the border crossing to other border crossings. Dear lawmakers, customs guards also have very long hours. According to Article 49 of the Constitution, the state must protect employees in order to improve the lives of employees. According to Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, each person has the right to work and to work in a fair and suitable manner. According to Article 24 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, each person has the right to rest, especially to reasonable compensation for the duration of his work. The working conditions of the illegal work system must be rearranged without challenging physiological, sociological and psychological problems. Having a break after work, taking the holidays off, spending time with the family, living without stress, not thinking about what tomorrow will be, of course, is the right of customs guards. The legal arrangements for this must be made at once. Dear lawmakers, another problem, a problem that we have repeatedly expressed, is the right to be owed to women who give birth before they are insured. I'd like to rephrase that. I've been getting a lot of messages about this through my social media accounts and through the phone. The Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510 provides women who work for the USSR before giving birth a way to close their labor life and social security periods by borrowing them. All female insurance holders, regardless of their insurance status, are benefiting from the right to be born in debt. Women from the SEC, BUG-KUR and Retirement Board are able to lend birth. However, if the woman has given birth before she joins the umbrella of social security, she has no right to be in debt. The total number is 600,000 people. Why do authorities refuse to accept birth debts for mothers without social security records before birth? The appeals to the relevant courts have been filed against the plaintiff due to the existing laws, and the lawsuits have been dismissed. This is a violation of the constitutional right of equality and a victim of their mothers. It is a great need to give mothers the right to a pre-insurance birth debt. Like many of the MPs in our party, we have a proposal for law, and we have an application for direct download of our proposal to the General Assembly. Hopefully, in the coming days, he'll come to the General Assembly and be legalized with the support of all parties. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0346par0936	Hatay MP Serkan Topal is asking for a statement about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0347par0939	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I pay my respects to all of you. I have taken a pledge on the 21st article of the Customs Law, and once again, I pay my respects to all of you. Dear friends, laws are, in fact, considered by the demands of the nation in regard to social needs, and are discussed, evaluated, and voted accordingly in the House. Now, really, what urgent need did this law come from, what problems it solves, what brings economics, what brings trade? There's really nothing concrete here, dear friends. Because it's unclear what the owners intended and who they met with. Now, when we look at the law, dear friends, customs fines are reduced, some import sanctions are reduced. In fact, what's being intended here, there really is a contradiction. Imports are being increased, exports are being reduced, exports are being increased, imports are being reduced, there's really a contradiction here, dear friends. For example, look, there's oil brought to Hatay on export from Afrin, but unfortunately it's not exported, it's consumed on the domestic market, and now the olive harvest has begun in Hatay, and the manufacturer is in trouble. Therefore, olive oil dropped 30 percent, 40 percent believe it, while 20 dollars per liter dropped to 13 or 14 liras. Is there a countermeasure? I'm afraid not, dear friends. Now, the 21st article regulates the executive clause. The President shall carry out the laws of this law, he says. Is there any rule of law that the President doesn't already enforce? Our friends from the AK PARTY criticize us all the time when we call it a single man's regime. Now, I ask you, very clearly: Is there a law that Mr. President doesn't enforce, is there a judgment that he doesn't decide on his own? I'm afraid not. Dear friends, Mr. President does not enforce these laws in accordance with the Constitution's principle of equality and the oath of the President's neutrality. We'd like to rephrase that here. For example, does Mr. President act equally when implementing the municipal law? Does he also apply the laws of the law in the sense that he compares the municipalities to a lame duck, or does he actually apply them in neutrality, as the law states? Again, is he extraditing all public personnel who have been issued in accordance with the Constitutional Court order and have been extradited as a result of the court? No. Or is Mr. President justly implementing the provisions of the Public Contraction Act in privatisation tenders? No. The simplest example is the Haydarpaşa Station contract. Unfortunately, our President, who has the authority to execute, neither the Constitution nor our laws, is unfortunately not being fair and is not fulfilling his duty of neutrality. Now, has the authority to carry out the laws of this law been applied equally to the provisions of the Customs Law so far? For example, how many fines were cut in customs, how many were pardoned, who were pardoned, of course, they're not explained. Now, dear friends, it's not the law that counts, it's the quality that counts more, and most importantly, whether or not the law is being done for the benefit of the nation when it's being made; whether it's being debated enough or not, we need to discuss it here. Actually, the strategy is: out there, the bureaucrats are making, they're offering it here, it's an offer, and I'm afraid all of our congressman friends are just raising their hands and dropping their hands, and there's no one else. Dear friends, as I said, since there's not enough discussion, since there's no innovation in this law, do you want to have a letter of letter or letter of letter of the letter of the letter of the Commission? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, for the last minute, since this is the last time...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0348par0952	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0347par0953	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, in terms of the lawmaking technique, perhaps after this, the President will act as a neutral judge of this law. I think it would be a more appropriate approach to regulate it in the form of the President. Because I would say something really important because the President is trying to explain to the public the attempt to disband the National Alliance, even during the most critical period of the country. In fact, even here, it's a sign that you're not neutral. Dear friends, by reminding Mr. President of his vows and constitutional duties, I invite them once again to enforce the laws in accordance with the principle of neutrality. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0349par0958	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. In accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code, I will make a promise to one person in favor, to show the color of the game. The first statement belongs to Mr. Fuat Koktas, MP of Samsun, in favour. Here you go, Mr. Rootstone.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0350par0965	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of the Proposal for Change in Customs Law, which has been completed. I salute the General Assembly. Changes have been made in the law, in the current needs of the regulations, in the past and today to meet the expectations of the parties, and tomorrow will continue by making changes. While this law was being drafted, it came to the Plan and Budget Commission and to the Trade Commission, where its people, our businessmen, our customs advisors working in customs, all their shareholders, were highly contacted, exchanged opinions, and worked to address problems. This law, as it is claimed, is not a law that paves the way for trafficking; it has been completed today in the General Assembly as a law that facilitates the import of our property in order to pave the way for our industry, our trader, our exporter, our tradesman, our industry. At the same time, it is a law that has not entered the free movement regime, but has brought changes to eliminate problems in transit transport and makes the parties happy. It's also been brought up as a law that provides security for our customs guards. It's a law that protects an honest trade in free movement, starting with the process regime, as well as a law that punishes traffickers and abusives. We thank each and every one of you who has worked so hard to prepare this law. We thank all of our lawmakers, all of our MPs, who have given a positive contribution to both our Commission and the General Assembly, who have given a better view of the law. I hereby declare that the color of our vote is accepted, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0351par0971	The second statement is for Mr. Free Private, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0352par0973	Thank you, Mr. President. We were going to live in this law for the first time, and we're stuck with our enthusiasm. For the first time in a long time, we haven't made a bag of laws, the law has become a law, and we've had our fill of enthusiasm. It's a strong communication commission, by the framework of the Industrial Commission, a commission where the country and the industrialist's benefit are looked after together. That commission worked in harmony, and there were many adjustments and regulations in the law that we wanted. We had confirmed that we would vote yes to the law, and that our Commissioner Tahsin Tarhan had gone with him -- for a funeral -- but our enthusiasm remained. What happened? This law was added by the Justice and Development Party to an article that greatly improved individual arms. There may be some righteous groups in the matter that have expectations of this, who are given to them, who are not given to us. There may be righteous groups that say, "We are not." But in the end, a substance has been added that expands individual arms. We're against it on principle. Why are we against it? The more guns, the more women's murders, the more children's murders, the more ritual killings, the more accidental bullets, the more ganda bullets. Mr. Jale Nur Sullü said all of his samples, and he said: "If there is a gun hanging on the wall on stage, as Chekhov said, in the play, it will eventually explode." We increased the number of weapons, and increased the number of weapons hanging on the walls. In this way, we've been deprived of the opportunity to say that we vote against all of this law, but essentially in favor. I'm making it clear here that we're going to carry out our constitutional audit mission and we're going to pursue our party's social democratic sensibilities as a social democratic party against this individual arms and right-of-life rape. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And we did the right thing, all of us. When the job was right, our congressman got up, went, sat in the middle of the commission, supported. What did we support? They said to stop contacting those who were tried for women's murders, if they have any other weapons, their licenses should be frozen, confiscated, and their innocence would be finalized. We thought we'd come in right away and vote, so that's our attitude. I have to make another point here. A member of the Justice and Development Party, Soma MP, my citizen -- he is not here today -- Mehmet Ali Özkan got up and went to Soma.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0353par0979	I'm here.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0352par0980	He held a press conference in Soma. Who did he take with him? They say we're solving the problem of the Somamese workers. With the yellow union. Now, listen, what has this union done? There was a mining disaster, 2,800 workers fired, they didn't get their compensation, we discussed the matter. I've told you before, Mr. Erkan Akçay and I, Mr. President of the Group, have made a special law based on the efforts of Mr. Doğan Kubbat. The property of this Soma Ash was confiscated by the TMSF. Soma Ash has a huge skyscraper, which will be sold and bought, but they won't sell it. We passed four parties of law here last time, and we said: "The stock of Soma Ash will be sold, and the wages of these workers will be paid first. These workers will not be compensated for four years. You know what the reason is? The yellow union, which you took into your custody today because we were solving the problem, said that I didn't get the answer to my motions -- I got it from TMSF, I took it from TMSF, I showed it -- says: "We agreed with the company on behalf of the workers, don't sell the skyscraper, they'll pay it in thirty-six installments. They didn't do it three times; they took three installments; they didn't have thirty-three installments; they had enough of the children's life; they went down the road just a little while before the statute of limitations. Soma didn't take my mother-in-law out of the house, but the court said, "It's the constitutional right." And the governor of Manisa stopped again in forty trees. They're standing there from that day on, but we'll give them a right. When I put it this way, Ozlem said to the rich -- our friend -- would you give me a file, Mr. Ozgur? He's sitting there, he's up, he's up, he's got the plague, Ozgur Bey, he says we need to figure this out. And from there, five representatives came here.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0354par0983	Here you go, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0352par0984	With the contributions of Mr. Naci Bostanci, they met with all groups and went to the Deputy Minister to resolve the problem. They met with Miss Özlem twice more, spoke to her three or four times a day on the phone, and in the end, these workers... but who are these workers? Turkey has resigned from Mining-Islam, deputy, and has formed a union called Independent Mine-Business. These vampires sucked our blood... do you know who they are? They, before the Soma disaster, believe that it is in the Soma Commission that they have been informed of the inspector who has come and taken him away by the fish and the Ayvaluk. If he's not a drinker, then it's the inspector's wish that he believes that they're the ones who distract him, but hide the tools that are controlled, disrupting the signs. And today the mine workers say: "We can't believe that Miss Özlem has contributed, Doğan Kabbat has contributed, all the political parties have contributed to the group's vice presidents, but the bloody yellow union has nothing to do with it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, this is important. I'm finishing.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0354par0987	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0352par0988	Your fucking yellow union doesn't exist. He didn't ask us what you'd like to drink, what you'd like to eat while we were sitting there on the 40th tree. He hasn't greeted us in ten or five days. He says we've taken the yellow union today and solved the problem. Look, if the problem is solved, and I've given a thank-you speech, I'm going to give a much better speech to everyone who contributes to the solution to the problem. 2,830 people were out of work, and they were in their debt, and those scoundrels and collaborators were in their way. It's not your job to look after them today, Deputy. You're in the wrong business. This is where Sami Yavuz, the mine worker, and the mine worker, said, "Where have you been for five years? If they want to get down on this process that we've been working so hard on, the Somal miners will ask you to account for it." Now, we say this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] All thanks to every politician that contributes to this sweat and labour struggle, who resigns from that yellow union and struggles on those roads, and one to those workers who are not members of that union, and one to those who support the yellow union. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0355par0995	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0356par0996	The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards who have not been able to get into the system to the presidential office during the time they've been given a vote.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0357par0999	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0356par1000	I'm starting the voting process. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0357par1005	Mr. President, thank you. I'd appreciate it if Mr. Special and other congressmen would listen. On October 7, 2019, our Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu MP, while we were in a meeting in Antalya, Mr Ahmet Akin, Mr. Abdurrahman President, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources and our concerned deputy ministers came up with this issue; we investigated his motive, what he was, what he wasn't. There is a court-ordered payment on the rights of the Turkish Coal Company to those who have the right to this compensation, to those who have the right to seniority and to report compensation. This was decided by the Turkish Coal Company in accordance with the court's decision... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Coal Company has paid the severance and tip compensation of our fellow workers before the court's decision has been finalized, but at this time, it is not right that the Court's supervisor should be given this right to everyone without a court ruling. Upon receiving a review, the Director of Coal Company has given up on it. We shared it with Mr. Ahmet Akin. We shared it with our Minister. We shared it with our Minister. We said, "Let's go to court, if there's a public defender's hearing, let's get this case over with, and let's get this case over with, and let's not let the institution run its appeals establishment, and let's get our fellow workers who have the right to it to what they're gonna get." Now, one of the most important tasks for lawmakers in political parties, our fellow lawmakers, is to find out how to speed this up, what the process is, and that the Ministry is ready for it. I wanted to inform your high council. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0358par1012	Let's get him on the record. I didn't just mention Mr. President's positive contributions while I mentioned a lot of names, and he has a very important contribution. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0359par1015	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0360par1016	Mr. President, I've just asked for word before the vote. My name has been mentioned by Mr. Special.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0361par1017	He wants to make a statement.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0359par1018	Tell him to file a report.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0360par1019	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0359par1020	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0360par1022	On May 13, 2014, we had an accident in Manisa Soma, as we all know. I'm a man who's lived in that city for 48 years, born in that city. At the time of the accident, I was active politics at the AK PARTY, president of the AK PARTI District. I was one of the people who was at the center of the whole thing. After the accident, our government, our nation, our charitable people, our NGOs took important steps to address the victims of the families, relatives of our 301 miners, who died there and died in a real way. Later, there, our state, our Energy Ministry, the Turkish Coal Company, took great obligations to ensure that the furnaces would not close, production, employment would continue, and the production would increase. In addition, over the past five and a half years since 2014, the Ministry of Energy and Turkish Coal Corporations have implemented about 1 quadrillion lira subsidies so far, just so that the mines don't close there. So the damage to those mines was paid by the Turkish Coal Company for five and a half years by its own reputation and account.
tbmm-2019-10-24sit03spe0359par1027	[[The vote continued with the electronic device]] I'm having them read the results of the open vote, folks. As a result of an open vote on the amendment to the Customs Law of the MP Ziya Altunyaldiz and 85 MPs: ▪ Number of Votes Used: 282 [[x]] Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Bayram Özçelik The offer has been accepted, and it's legal, so best of luck. We begin negotiations with Law Proposal Number 88, which is found in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there is no other work on our agenda, the decision is made, it is Wednesday (October 30, 2019) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from commissions in order of law proposals. I'm being shut down for the meeting at 00.
