tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Dear lawmakers, today is the 10th of December World Human Rights Day. The struggle for human rights has been achieved as a result of the great gains that people have earned at the expense of their lives, and today there is still much debate about the size of their rights. Of course, the struggle for human rights has many different dimensions. In our country, we feel that we should all have a common effort to apply human rights to our country at the level of world standards, at the level of the most advanced countries. The struggle for human rights is a universal struggle. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Commission on December 10, 1948, was also acknowledged as having the rights of all people, regardless of race, color, language, gender, religion, political opinions, national and social origins, property, birth and other statuses. Dear lawmakers, on a day like this, on the Day of Human Rights, December 10th, I wish we could reach the most advanced level of human rights. But today is also one of the most important days in which the most basic human right to live has been violated. Three years ago, on December 10, 2016, 38 police officers and eight civilians were killed and we experienced the most basic human rights violation on a Human Rights Day, with a bomb detonated near Vodafone Arena Stadium in İstanbul. I remember 38 of our police officers and eight of our civilian citizens with respect and mercy today, and I curse every terrorist organization that has created this terror in Turkey, no matter what its name. [[AK PARTY, CHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] Dear lawmakers, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2018-Year Central Management Computing Law Proposal. According to the program, we'll be interviewing in round one today. In the first round, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, Public Audition Foundation, Constitutional Court, Court, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Radio and Television Top Board, State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, State Theatre General Directorate of State Theatres, Turkey's Editor-in-Chief of Writers, Foundation of Foundations, Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, President of Foreign Turks and Associations, Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Institution, Ataturk Research Centre, Turkish Language Institute, Turkey's Association, Cappadok Alan's Office, the budget and final accounts. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area The commission is in place. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, the talks on the tour will be promised to conduct to political party groups and to state their opinion in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. Now, in the first round, I'm running the names of political party groups, executive and individuals who are taking the words in order: Kilis MP Ahmet Salih Dal Mersin MP Zeynep Gül Yilmaz 6) Balıkesir MP Mustafa Canbey 7) İstanbul MP Ismet Uçma 8) İstanbul MP Fatih Süleyman Denizolgun 9) Adıyaman MP Mohammed Fatih Earth 10) Şanlıurfa MP Ahmet Akay 11) Erzincan MP Burhan Çakır 12) Karabük MP Cumhur Ünal 13) Şanlıurfa MP Halil Özşavlı 14) Nevşehir MP Mustafa Beşgöz 2) Antalya MP Hasan Subaş 3) Ankara MP İbrahim Halil Oral 4) Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin 5) Ankara MP Senol Sunat 6) İstanbul MP Abdul Ahat Andican 1) İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu 2) Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Taytak 3) İstanbul MP Feti Yıldız 4) Kütahya MP Ahmet Erbaş 5) Ankara MP Erkan Haberal 6) İstanbul MP Cemal Çetin 7) Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın Siirt MP Meril Danış Beştaş 3) Batman MP Necdet İpekım 4) Antalya MP Kemal Bulbül 5) İstanbul MP Ahmet Şık 6) Şanlıurfa MP Nimethullah Erdoğmi 7) İstanbul MP Oya Ersoy 1) Antalya MP Cavit Bee 2) İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal 3) İstanbul MP İbrahim Özden Kaboğlu 4) Antalya MP Cetin Osman Budak 5) İstanbul MP Saliha Sera Kadigil Milkylı 6) İzmir MP Özcan Purçu 7) Müğla MP Mürsel Alban 8) Heromarash MP Ali Öztunç 9) Ankara MP Murat Emir 10) Bursa MP Yüksel Özkan 11) Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer 12) Nevşehir MP Faruk Sarıaslan On the other hand, İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem. Minister of Culture and Tourism Mehmet Nuri Ersoy. Against him, Alaziğ MP Gürsel Erol. Of course, it is possible to make speeches in the name of executive by dividing them. It is possible that this matter could also be judged by the Parliament. If it pleases, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Speaker, and our Deputy Speaker, they can use it to divide the conversation. Dear MPs, of course, we have quite a few speakers today. I say we use some time in economics. If our speaker friends are in the front row as much as possible, we'll invite them to talk, and I don't plan on giving them much time today, especially in terms of finishing the talks, except for plus one, because we're going to have a lot of time to expand, and we're going to have ten-five-minute intervals of ten-five-minute intervals during the sessions. We'll try to have a quick conversation as fast as possible. Now, dear friends, we will begin our talks with the AK PARTY Group, one of our first-round MPs. The first word on behalf of the AK PARTY Group belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Rumemasa Kadak. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Kadak, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0002par0133	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the 2020 budget of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Of course, on a special day like this, as a young woman, I wanted to make a promise today, in the name of all the women, all the victims, in the name of all the people, who are drowning in deep sadness, Ceren Özdemir, Emine Bulut, Gülda Cankel, and perhaps more than we don't mention here. Unfortunately, nowadays, women are still the most violent of all. In fact, I'd like to tell you today that most of the students who graduated from universities are women, or when we look at the university staffs, I'd like to talk about that we've caught the equality of opportunity, and that most of our academics are women, or I'd like to talk to you today about Canan Han, who is conducting research in their own labs in cancer studies in one of the most important universities of the United States at the age of 34. We should talk about all this, talk about all this, and be proud of it. We need to talk about the steps we've taken over the last 20 years and the gains we've gained to increase the position of our country's women and women in society. But when we look at society, despite their success that has contributed so much to society, we still see women as the greatest victims of social violence. Of course, if we're going to talk about violence, I think we should define violence. We need to make the determination of violence much more accurate, especially here in the General Assembly. Violence is a social problem, when our culture of living together breaks down, when we lose mutual tolerance, communication, and love. In fact, it's what each of us collects collectively, violence. Therefore, we can only overcome it with collective will. And it's also possible that collective will can achieve that with very small nuances. For example, we can start by laughing at each other even more today, listening with greater respect to the speakers who speak here, never forgetting that people, especially the people we work with, are more human than anything else, perhaps by greeting each other or smiling at each other. In fact, we're all responsible as individuals for what happened on the street, in Congress, on the football field today. So I'm asking you to at least consider it in the General Assembly when we've got 2020 left, and instead of giving each other the courtesy, respect, and criticism of each other. Because in fact, we're not just talking about our reactions here, we're showing people who actually chose us, how to communicate with people who have different views. I wish we could show it today, not just here, but in the elevator, in the queues, in the college, in the football field, in the General Assembly, in every area, like in the next Fenerbahçe-Başiktaş game. If we could not only shake hands at the beginning of the game, perhaps then we would not lose 17 - year - old Muhammad. I wish we could see this tolerance at every stage of society starting with the General Assembly. So, I'm asking you, each and every one of you, not just of you, but of the young... today, social media, unfortunately, has become the area where young people use the most, the hate speech most. It's sad to see how much patience has waned for each other, how much social violence has become normal. Sometimes our profiles, our names, our photographs may not be real, but the violence we spread, the hatred we actually put into society, unfortunately, is real. I'm especially asking my young friends. Today, regardless of our views, no matter how conflicted our ideas may be, let us never compromise our freedom of expression, not allow those who spread hatred and violence. The violence that we spread is, unfortunately, the end of a young girl, a mother, maybe a football fan, a child, an immigrant, an old man, a dream; it's the end of Muhammad, and Ceren. We may have differences of opinion and opinion, but we must remember, this country is each and every one of us. For what it's worth, let's shake hands at the end of the game, please, let's respect each other. First of all, let's not give anyone a hard time. Please, let's not end another young friend by spreading social violence.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0003par0141	Let's complete it, Mr. Kadak.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0002par0142	I, for one, would like to see this tolerance here, perhaps your youngest brother, in the General Assembly. Unfortunately, we also bear witness to behavior that occasionally upsets us. Please, let's say no to violence here, all of us, before we forget how easily this violence actually spreads. Let's not hesitate to throw in a tweet and take responsibility the next day. Let's please stand by these words and the conversations we're having here. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0003par0146	Dear friends, there's a buzzing in the hall, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0004par0147	It's coming from the AK PARTY lines, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0003par0148	It's coming from all over the place, so let's stop it. Now, it's time for Mr. Ahmet Salih Dal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0005par0152	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group in the first round of the 2020-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal on the budget of the Public Control Agency. It is a constitutional institution established by Law 6328, which investigates complaints concerning the functioning of the administration under Article 74 of our Constitution. Since its establishment, the Public Control Agency, which has created an effective complaint mechanism, has also made many innovations in 2018; above all, it paves the way for freedom of rights, it performs important tasks, such as strengthening people and easy access to justice. The Public Control Agency conducts control activities on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, taking its power from the spiritual person of the Grand Assembly; it has become one of the vital institutions in the field of justice, seeking rights, protecting human rights. The presidential government system, along with the parliamentary system, has been removed from our law on decisions and orders signed by the President through his own procedures. Thus, the Public Control Agency has become able to receive complaints about the President. The Public Control Agency takes its decisions, in its quality, in its dignity, in public pressure, and most importantly, in accordance with law and justice with the support and surveillance of Parliament. The management rate is 70 per cent of the advice decisions made by the Public Control Agency in 2018. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has given the institution its biggest support in the process. We took serious steps to address the problem by calling the authorities of some institutions who hesitated to meet the requirement of the institution's recommendations from the Commission for the Statement of Human Rights and members of the Commission for Review of Human Rights to the Commission for Karma Commission. On this occasion, I'd like to thank the esteemed public officials and my fellow lawmakers who attended our Karma Subcommittee meetings once again from this stand. The Public Control Agency is trying to contribute to improving the quality of service, setting up good management principles, improving human rights, establishing the rule of law, spreading the rights culture, transparent, accountable, human-focused administration. There are ombudsman's institutions in more than 130 countries around the world, including international organisations. In this sense, ombudsmanism is also part of international relations as a soft force. The Public Control Agency is a member of eight international ombudsman organizations, including these ombudsman institutions. We also studied the jurisdiction and activities of ombudsman's institutions in some countries in our Subcommittee. According to this, Spain and Portugal's Obudsmans can appeal to the Constitutional Court on the Constitutional Court on the violation of the law, and the Swedish Ombudsman can participate in courts and talks, and can be present in meetings and talks by administrative organisations, as well as in the world's decent institutions. From 2002, when we took over power, we made many arrangements for decisions to be made in our judicial and legal system to be more transparent, faster, to ease the consciences; and the establishment of public supervision is one of them. In order to become more active under the administration's supervision, I would like to submit to our great Parliament's appreciation that it would be helpful to expand the duties and powers of the head of state with a legal arrangement. As a result, in order to obtain more qualified applications and promote the right-seeking culture, the institution's contribution to the country is undisputed in its friendly resolution initiatives and decisions to ease the workload of the judiciary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0006par0161	I'll add another minute.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0005par0162	Thank you. Our Ministry of Justice has begun drafting a new Human Rights Action Plan in light of the new Judiciary Reform Strategy. We are determined to move forward with our legal standards that respond to our people's needs, protect and improve their rights and freedoms, guide the future of society. With these feelings and thoughts, I congratulate the President of the Public Control Agency, our auditors and fellow experts on their selfless work, thank you. I would also like to thank all of our advisers, especially my own advisors, who are our biggest supporters behind the scenes in both our General Assembly work and our local work. I wish our budget would be a blessing. I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0007par0168	Our Samsun MP, Mr. Orhan Kırcalı, is next in line. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0008par0171	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on behalf of the Supreme Court's Executive Budget Law Proposal of 2020. I salute the High Council. Starting with my words, I would like to express my condolences to our martyrs, Petty Officer Esma Jivic, who have been killed in the explosion of handmade explosives set up by traitors, and who have been drinking the martyrdom of Petty Officer Esma Havzalı, and my fellow citizen of Samsun Havzalı, and to our martyr, Special Sergeant Kemal Sayar, Allah's mercy, to his relatives, to his family, and to our beloved nation. I wish our wounded soldiers and veterans a speedy recovery. And I curse terror and terrorist supporters. The Court has been tasked with overseeing all revenues and expenses of public administration and social security institutions under the central management budget and the account and processing of the responsible on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Court, which has a long history and experience for a hundred and fifty-seven years, also has a great role in the effective execution of the control activity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Court plans and conducts its audits on behalf of the High Assembly in an honest, non-controversial, neutral and in accordance with international control standards. The independence of the Court is also guaranteed by law. Since 1862, the Court of Justice, which has served our nation and our country, aims to contribute to the transparency and accountability of the public administration. The Court also takes full advantage of IT technology in its audits. The Governing Body, which has constantly developed the capacity to control and report, has a very important function in transparency of the state. The Court also considers the expectations and needs of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, public opinion and supervised public administrations. Mr. President, ever since we came to power, we've signed a number of reforms so that public financial management and control can be carried out in a way that is unconcerned, honest, transparent and in accordance with international control standards. In line with these reforms, an accountable, world-class control process has begun. With efficiency in public spending, the waste has been prevented, the acceleration of development, and a sustainable development has also been opened up. There's a sense of trust between the state and the citizen. The Court, one of the most radical institutions of our state, has contributed greatly to the functioning of our democracy, the protection of our citizens' rights and interests, the peace and stability of our country, by overseeing the legality of financial actions in the public. The Supreme Court's presidency, whose background, savings and services are an important part of our state tradition, is also in tight co-operation with international regional organisations of higher control institutions. Dear lawmakers, 189 Court audit reports have been submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as part of the 2018 Year Control Programme. 13 audit reports on investment Watch and Co-ordination Presidency have been sent to the Interior Ministry and the governorships. In 2018, all development agencies were audited and the Development Agency General Control Report was submitted to Turkey's Grand National Assembly on the control of development agencies. The audits carried out by the Court are carried out annually, but as a whole, the audit process covers a period of three or four years. Reports made as a result of inspections are also published within the framework of the legislation on the Court of Justice's website.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0009par0178	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0008par0179	Our Supreme Court presidency, which is determined to carry out its duties with a high sense of duty, has the right to ensure the best use of taxes that our beloved nation has transferred to its state in the coming days. With these thoughts, I ask that the Central Management Budget Law Offer of 2020 bring blessings to our country, our nation, and our Chairman of the Court, and I salute the High Assembly again.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0009par0182	In turn, it belongs to our Mersin MP, Mr. Zeynep Gül Yilmaz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0010par0185	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group regarding the budget of the Constitutional Court. I salute our High Council and our beloved nation. As we know, the Constitutional Court has three tasks, such as auditing laws, auditing political parties and the title of the Supreme Court; the 1961 Constitution entered the system and continued its mandate with some structural regulations so far. Since the year we came to power in 2002, serious reforms and structural changes have been implemented on the ground of the law state with basic rights and freedoms, as well as our national obligations have not been compromised. In this regard, international agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms, which were added to the 90th article of the Constitution, which entered into force in 2004, would be given the advantage over international agreements if the law contradicted the same issue. A revolutionary provision is the right of individual application brought to Article 148, under the Constitutional Amendment in 2010. An individual application is an extraordinary form of law applied by individuals who are violated by public power by fundamental rights and freedoms. Its main objective is to determine the conditions that have caused the right violations and ensure that it is resolved by public authorities and prevent new violations from emerging. The individual application has brought significant innovations to the Turkish legal system, and the Constitutional Court has only stopped overseeing norms' compliance with the Constitution, and the total number of individual applications has been 244,783 since September 23, 2012, when individual application began. The Constitutional Court has ruled on about 80 per cent of these applications. The total number of files that have been reached is 197.761%; 89 per cent of these files are inadmissible; 6 per cent are in denial; 4 per cent are in violation of rights; 47.022 cases are still in trouble, and 19 per cent are. Following the individual application, the number of members of the Constitutional Court has also been increased, and Turkey's Grand National Assembly has been given the authority to elect members of the Constitutional Court. In addition to implementing individual application, the Ministry of Justice has established the chairmanship of the Human Rights Compensation Commission. The Commission, which has been active since 2013, has thus far received 8,934 applications from the European Court of Human Rights, which have been concluded by 8.931. The European Court of Human Rights adopted this Commission as an internal legal road and rejected many applications on the grounds that it could be applied to the Human Rights Compensation Commission. With these regulations, applications to the European Court of Human Rights have also been greatly reduced. Of course, there are other things we can criticize, as well as the Constitutional Court. The authority given to the Constitutional Court to determine the basic human rights and freedoms of individual application on the occasion, to repair the right that has been violated, and to take the necessary measures is never a control mechanism for court decisions, especially in high courts. The fact that the Constitutional Court occasionally replaces the first-degree courts and even inspects their position has unfortunately made the court's decisions controversial. For example, Can Dündar and his decision on academics was dated 26/7/2019. The Constitutional Court considers it a legal violation of the rights of those who committed crimes committed in the Turkish Penal Code and Anti-Terror Law, those who praised terrorism, those who acted against terrorism, to be punished, a major legal problem, and this decision has damaged our nation's public conscience. In the end, a fictional legal logic that terror is justified is unacceptable. This is also against universal law. At a time when our heroic security forces and Turkish Armed Forces, especially when fighting domestic terrorism, are struggling with great sacrifice, I think the Constitutional Court should be more careful with such decisions in case their morale motivation is negatively affected.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0011par0191	I'll add a minute. Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0010par0192	Such decisions should not open a legal gap to some of the terror centers in Turkey, especially in the PKK, AKP, and to the sneaky focal points that support these terrorist focal points. With these thoughts, I wish my respects to the Constitutional Court and all of our institutions that their budget should be good for our country, for our country.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0011par0195	In turn, our Hatay MP, Mr. Hussein Yayman. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Sagittarius.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0012par0198	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. We also want to express our respect and gratitude to our fellow saints who watch us on the screen. Before I begin my words, I pray to God for the mercy of our heroic soldiers who were killed yesterday by the rogue terrorist organization, the PKK, and to their grieving families, our beloved nation. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC Party Group on the 2020 budget of our Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is signing one of the records of Turkish political history, the world history of democracy; our EC PARTY government makes its 18th budget. This is not an event that has been seen since the multi-party life of Turkey, and it is a very rare record in the history of the world. Mr. President, we think of culture, tourism and art as a subject above politics, above parties, and we really believe that Turkey is the world's largest outdoor museum, the world's largest tourist destinization, and the world's largest library. Our Turkey is a geography of languages, religions, civilizations combined. Turkey is a country with a story. We need to raise this great story together without calling it the ruling opposition and show it to the world as the soft power of Turkey. Turkey is also one of the largest tourist countries in the world. In terms of the number of tourists arriving, it is ranked sixth in the world and 13th in terms of income. Thank God that during my time as Deputy Minister, twenty-eight years later, it was given to our ministers and our government to carry out the Cultural Survey and the Tourism Corporation fifteen years later. At the same time, it is important to say that when you go to all cities in Turkey, even with the naked eye, there are large museums, cultural centers, concert halls, theater buildings, and our nation is making a great silent revolution in cultural art. Our EC PARTY has had a major silent revolution in economics, development, development, development, not in the municipal area, but in cultural art, and it continues to happen. AS AK PARTY, we see culture as a fundamental field that builds people, society, future and civilization. As Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, the foundation of our republic is culture and will continue to be culture. Our vision is to combine our values, culture and tradition with modernity, to combine local and universal with national and global, and to create a new synthesis. The EC PARTY aims to bring Turkey among the 10 most advanced countries in the world in economics, as well as to make it one of the world's most advanced cultural arts countries. Especially in cultural diplomacy, in the field of gastrodiplomasi, and in a lot of real cultural areas, we'll be in a sense of goals that will move Turkey further. In this context, our cultural heritage and tradition, our artists, our thinking people, and their work, we're going to make richer programs to introduce to the world. In the 100th year of our Republic, I hope we will take Turkey further in the field of culture and art, and hopefully we will all do better things together. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey has also had a major revolution in cinema. In particular, our cinema, which is built and founded by greenwood workers with scarce means, is taking on worldwide work today. Turkey is also one of the most exported countries in the world since the United States, thanks to our series industry.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0013par0210	Complete it, Mr. Sagittarius.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0012par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. Hopefully, both in the show business and in the movie business, Turkey will continue to take much further steps. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are 75 million tourists, the tourist destination of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in 2023. Hopefully, our Ministry and our Parliament and our opposition will work together to achieve this goal. As I end my words, as Hatay MP, the cradle of culture, history, flavor, ports, seas, mountains, plateaus and civilizations, we invite our valued deputies, Hatay, who owns the world's largest mosaic museum. Mr. President, we invite you. Hatay is one of the 26 gastronomy cities of the world, and he really has the most unique kitchen in the world. With these thoughts and feelings, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of 2020 wishes our budget to be better, and I salute you with love.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0014par0218	Mr. Yayman, I've answered your invitation before, and I'm waiting for your invitation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0012par0219	Let's open the calendar.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0014par0220	This is Mr. Mustafa Canbey, our Balıkesir MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0015par0223	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the basis of the budget of the High Council of Radio and Television. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. I pray for God's mercy to our soldiers who died yesterday, and to our wounded, and to heal them quickly. Dear lawmakers, the demand for further quality service and service diversity has arisen as a result of constant and rapid changes in radio and television broadcasting, one of today's most important mass media. In this framework, RTÜK was established in 1994 to organise and oversee radio and television activities with Law 6112. The RTÜK, which currently operates as an organisation associated with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, performs a vital task in its field. Our country currently has 1,780 radio and television broadcasts today, including 193 terrestrial televisions, 932 radios, 177 TVs from cable and 9 radios from satellite environments, 368 TVs and 101 radios. Working to monitor and monitor so many publications, the RTÜK performs its regulatory and audit work with a digital recording, archive and analysis system created by local software for seven days and 24 hours. The upper council has administrative and financial autonomy and uses its mandates independently in the legislation. The Oversight Council's budget consists of treasury assistance from Turkey's Grand National Assembly budget, if necessary, but outside of its establishment in 1994, the RTÜK has already covered its own revenues and has not received treasury assistance from the Turkish Grand National Assembly budget. The council's budget offer of 2020 is totaled at 177,882,000 euros and revenues totalled at 177,882,000 TL, so it will not receive any help from the 2020 budget. Mr. President, the High Council, celebrating its 25th birthday, has been able to co-ordinate with audience representatives in order to develop media service providers' self-control mechanisms and to ensure that audiences' complaints and approvals are evaluated and broadcast in a different language. Our citizens are able to provide the RTÜK Communications Center with both their opinions and opinions on the broadcasts, both with complaint lines and with intelligent signs. Between January 1, 2019 and October 31, 2019, 91,203 of our citizens reported that the majority of the Overstabulary was in the title of moral, spiritual values and the protection of the family. So RTÜK operates the self-control mechanism with complaints and suggestions. In the past 25 years, RTÜK has implemented many studies and practices such as smart signs, media readers' courses, the creation of digital recording archive and analysis systems and the principles of publishing. Important activities such as International Communication with the Future, the International Children and Media Congress, the Hearing and Blind Media Act, the Good Turkish Use Act in Radio and Television Broadcasts have been carried out with broad participation. Organising in the field of radio and television broadcasting continues to be a positive discrimination against children, young people, women, elderly people and disabled people. The Radio and Television Oversight is making the ultimate effort to prevent any material that could harm children's spiritual, physical, and moral development. In co-operation with the Ministry of Health, it has been limited to advertising for foods that are not recommended to overuse to protect children from harmful obesity consequences. The presidential Board of Health and Food Policy and the Ministry of Health also provide work on this issue. Support for disadvantaged groups has been rewarded by the Ministry of Family Work and Social Services, with regulations designed to increase the access of disabled people to broadcasting services. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have adopted the idea of democratic broadcasting in the field of radio and television during the AK PARTI administrations, and with the work being done, the Council has been cleared, and the use of tasks and powers has been facilitated. I wish that the RTÜK, which embraces the understanding of independence and neutrality -- which is the key element of democracy in its work -- is that the 2020 budget of 177,882,000 dollars -- and the Central Management Budget Law Proposal will be blessed and fortunate.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0016par0234	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0015par0235	I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0016par0237	In turn, our Istanbul MP, Mr. Ismet Flyma. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0017par0240	Three things, sir...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0018par0241	It's not enough for Ismet. Let's give Ismet Bey ten minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0016par0242	Five minutes plus one. Let's go, let's go, guys, let's make good use of our time.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0018par0244	Let's give it our time.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0016par0245	Here you go, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0019par0246	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group over the budgets of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism; State Opera and Ballet General Directorate; State Theatres General Directorate; Turkey's Writers' Office; 2020 budgets. I salute your committee and each and every one of you with respect. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Today is World Human Rights Day. The nations that were tired of World War II -- and our Mr. President -- came together in 1948 to form the Universal Bill of Rights, and they did very well. Thank you very, very much for all who have worked from Magna Carta to 1789, from Roosevelt to Churchill to the Atlantic declaration, and to the rights developed. But when we look back on our own civilization codes, the Hilful-Fudul, the Vesika of Medina and Veda Hutbesi are far above these initiatives, universal human rights declarations, and these values must be passed on to the age. Dear friends, without disclosing any friends, our struggle is this: as all party groups and MPs, our struggle as Turkey is this: that there will be no more people on earth than there will be no more people on the ground, and that Turkey will continue to fight the Great National Assembly until the moment comes. Thank you very, very much for contributing to this struggle. The world's record of human rights does not look good. The world is greater than five. The word is a human rights manifesto. From time to time, it is extremely important to our country that all our parties support this manifesto in different places and times. Turkey, the greatest democracy -- I'm betting, I'm ready to talk to everyone about it -- is the greatest democracy among the world's states, and that is not enough, the largest social state, and that is not enough -- it is the only nation in the world that has brought together culture into civilization. If the value of these three elements were to be appreciated and collected and put into action, Turkey would really set an example for the world with all its elements, all its beliefs, all its political capacities; there's no doubt about it. My dear Engin President -- of course you are our President, but that's what we've done to Mr. Engin now and then -- we've done these things together, dear friends; in the seventeen years we've done this: the world and our country were in the waiting room for democracy, in terms of basic rights and freedoms. We put this before the audience, all of us, together. Then, in terms of basic rights and freedoms, he was very overweight in terms of democracy, obese; we had a diet, and now it's like a crotch. Hopefully, we'll continue to work hand in hand with all our political parties, all our friends, to make the world this way. In this regard, there is not a single human being whom we have not spoken from Zarathust to Confucius, Plato to Aristotle, or even to modern philosophers today; the tradition is open to carrying it out. Sir, about the writing... I couldn't get into the others, I'm sorry, because...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0020par0253	There's not much time left for writing either, but Mr. Flying, one last minute, please. I'll add a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0021par0255	Make an exception for Mr. Flying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0022par0256	Sir, the Engin brother had a request.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0020par0257	Please, go ahead for a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0021par0258	One minute on the house.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0020par0259	Let's make good use of time, dear friends, we have many speakers.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0023par0260	Thank you, sir. And that, sir, is that there is no second country in the world that has a treasure like writing. Other countries may have gold reserves, they may have oil reserves, they may have other wealth; they may not exist today; they may change places geographically; they are here today; they are here tomorrow, but dear friends are here tomorrow, if they spend trillions on Turkey's manuscript and value, including all world countries and Islamic countries, they will never be able to reach it. It's been well done, and as a brother who contributed to their first theoretical discussion, some really good work has been done. Today, writing found 150,000 marks, and they were presented in the communications environment for the benefit of the entire nation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0020par0263	Just bow, Mr. Flying; I promise you, let's bow, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0024par0264	Mr. President, I beg you very much, we're giving up words based on what we're about to receive during the day.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0023par0265	Sir, thank you very much, dear Mr. Engin, our Deputy Directors of the Group, but let me make a joke to my own group, not to be one of those things that is jealous of someone else's mercy, but three things and five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0020par0267	Okay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0023par0268	That's a joke, of course. Thank you, dear friends, for your understanding of the President, and I wish that the budget of 2020, for our country, for our nation, for all the blessings, peace, and happiness. Thank you, dear friends.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0020par0271	Our Istanbul MP, Mr. Fatih Süleyman Denizolgun. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0025par0274	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budgets of our Foundation General Directorate as part of 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks. I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. Our General Directorate of Foundations is a pioneer institution with a very different significance in our ancient history of civilization, with a very serious role in the social, cultural and economic life of the Turkish world over the centuries; however, at the point of living up to the goals of our foundations, which have always served as a uniter and fuser in our social system. Our foundation, which serves as a conveyor of our nation's traditions, has strengthened our ties to the past, while also making great efforts to preserve the cultural heritage, which is a living bridge between generations from yesterday to today. Today, when we go to Anatolia and Rumeli, we must know for certain that all these works were built on the basis of the institutionalized foundation of the mosque, the mosque, the mosque, the inn, the bath, the madresa, the ash, the fountain, the bedes, the bimarhane, the marketplace, if we see them, without doubt, all these works were built on the basis of the institutionalized foundation of cooperation, the spirit of solidarity. All of our foundations are for good and for flowing water. The total abandonment of public space to foundations has caused Western social politicians to use the term "vacian paradise" for the 16th century Ottomans. I have traveled to 18 kings and kingdoms in fifty years, and I have never seen so much good in any place. In my five-minute speech, what foundations, what benefits do I have left to us? And the houses of birds, and those who are sick, and those who guard the birds, and those who guard the orphans, and those who give alms and those who give alms and those who are poor, and the houses of birds, without any knowledge; and many good things and other good things; and Allah is Aware of what you do. In every aspect of social life, thousands of foundations have dried up over hundreds of years. Those who built it, those who ruled it, abandoned it. Of course, these precious foundations could not be allowed to be wasted. In this context, it is the duty and responsibility of our General Directorate of the Foundations to keep the foundation alive, to continue. There are now over 52,000 foundations. Between 2002 and 18 years, the restoration of our 5,250 foundation has been completed in 16 years. This year, in 2019, more than 150 of our additional works have been restored, and the number of foundations that have been restored or repaired has been increased by exactly 115 times. Foundation streams have been freed from the ejection and have been transformed into high-income non-movables. The Foundations General Directorate performs its work through its own resources without contributing to the treasure. The introduction of Bezmialem and Fatih Sultan Mehmet Foundations into education is a great achievement. Today, these two universities are taught in modern complexes. The Faculty of Medicine of Bezmialem University continues to treat patients and even offers free health care. Again, in 2019, the Foundation's General Directorate had a salary of 4,521 people in need; 20,315 families and 78,780 people were provided with food supplies. 15,000 students were granted a scholarship. The soup kitchen services continue at full speed. Istanbul's Job Imareti is capable of feeding 2,000 people, and the needy are given a meal of three cups of hot food each day. Tens of thousands of citizens such as this are on welfare. It is a manifestation of helping others to live together, share and share with others, without looking at differences, without differences of opinion and opinion. The maintenance, repair and restoration of the foundation works; the supports of education, social aid and supports, the continued non-interruption of charity services; investments; cultural activities, services and measures; Foundations for the preservation of our cultural heritage; and I give my thanks to the valued executives of our General Directorate, especially the General Manager, all engineers and workers -- on behalf of our group and nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0026par0282	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0025par0283	I wish that our budget of 2020 brings blessings to all our ministries, all our institutions, our nation and our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0026par0285	Our Adıyaman MP, Mr. Muhammad, is in the Conqueror Earth. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our time is five minutes, Mr. Earth.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0027par0288	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the EC PARTY on the budget of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency. I salute your grand delegation and the mighty Turkish nation. TİKA, especially the Turkish Republics, established in 1992 to develop strong co-operation with neighbouring and friendly countries, where our country is firmly connected with historical and cultural ties, has been updated by various legislation changes in the process, dated July 15, 2018, and since 30479. With the presidential decree of the presidential presidency, it has been finalised. In 2002, the number of offices in Central Asia, Caucasus, Balkans, 12. The average number of projects he carried out was 500, the total number of countries he was operating in, and the number of offices in 60 countries, the world vision of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and governments, and the average number of projects increased by 2,000 years, and the number of projects that have been achieved by means of the international breakthrough, the number of countries has exceeded 170. TİKA, where our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, lies all over the world, where he is troubled, we will go there as Turkey, and we will help him. The principle of his motto is that the Philippines, Pacific Island countries, Mexico, Myanmar, have become the aid and brotherhood of our country, reaching out to the most needy of the world's most distant geography. Dear lawmakers, while the understanding of development aid in many countries is observed only in its own interests, acting with different types of help, non-sincere, exponential, exponential approaches, Turkey has brought a new approach to development co-operation by the hands of the TİKA. This model, which is starting to enter literature as Turkish-type development aid, is able to act with the needs of the age, with a transparent approach to our culture, without discrimination, without looking over the issues, without looking at them, based on sincere, equal partnership; it can be implemented in any covert agency, or with the intention of looking out for its own interests, not just for the interests and needs of the countries; it can be developed with a transparent approach; it can continue to increase its institutional and human resources; it can be implemented in any transparent way; it is possible for countries to be able to maintain their interests, not only by their own needs and needs. Mr. President, some examples of the activities carried out by TİKA in 2019 are as follows: 500 students in the camp of 57 thousand Palestinians have been renovated by Vahdet Girls High School TİKA, providing equipment support for the school. The opening of the school was held last September by our Minister of Culture and Tourism. The medical equipment and materials of Bishkek Kyrgyz-Turkish Friendship Hospital, built and equipped by TİKA, were provided. In Myanmar, a clinic was built and equipped to serve 20,000 people in the area of the Arab Muslims. In 1483, Serbia was Sultan II. The restorations of the Valide Sultan Mosque, built by Bayezid's Castle of Ram and Sultan Abdulaziz, were performed by TİKA, which was held at the three summit of Turkey-Serbia-Bosna Herzek, which was attended by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan last October. These and similar restoration projects not only stir up ancient artifacts but also bring the people of the countries close together. The sister country, the seal of our presence in the eastern Mediterranean, is the home of the late President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, restored as a museum under the instructions of our President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, and opened by our Vice President, Mr Fuat Oktay. In addition to projects for long-term development, TİKA has made significant contributions to the immediate response to disasters in various countries around the world that have caused humanitarian crises and to ease the effects of crises and to the healing of wounds faster. Last seen in Albania's earthquake sample, Turkey was the first country to bring help to the disaster zone with TİKA (TİKA). In Myanmar, Bangladesh, Mexico, Somalia, Sudan, and many other countries, humanitarian aid was quickly and effectively delivered to the crisis. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, TİKA projects should not be seen as just humanitarian aid with conscientious opinions. In addition to developing international relations, development aid has become an important part of public diplomacy.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0028par0296	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0027par0297	In addition to their military and diplomatic relations, countries want to improve their human relations, which lead development investments in this direction to areas that bring peoples and countries closer together. Dear MPs, I invite you and our beloved nation to see the eighth wonder of the world, the Nemrut, and Adıyaman, one of the most beautiful cities in the world. I wish the budget would be a blessing to our government and to our nation, and I salute the General Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Ahmet Akay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Akay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0029par0303	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, which belongs to our Ministry of Culture. I salute our beloved nation and the General Assembly, watching us at the beginning of their screens. Yesterday in Şırnak and Bitlis, we have three martyrs; I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, and curse terror. The OHR is an important public organisation founded to address the problems of our citizens living abroad, to improve our relations with relatives. The primary working area of the presidency is our citizens living abroad. Today, there are more than 6 million Turkish diaspora living outside the borders of our country, mostly in the continent. The OHR is based on three basic principles in its work for the Turkish community, building all its activities on this basis. The first is to protect our citizens who live abroad from their ties to our national culture and to keep them from forgetting Turkish; the second is to improve the economic, social and cultural status of our citizens abroad; the third is to ensure that our citizens who live abroad are affected as little as possible by the negative events, such as alien hostility, Islamophobia, racism. With this weapon, the presence of a strong Turkish diaspora will have created a positive value for both Turkey and the countries in which they reside for its own well-being abroad, and will benefit all sides. The presidency operates in areas such as education and education and human rights and law, communication and defence, cultural mobility, family and social studies and co-ordination of services in Turkey. The OHR has provided support for language education, cultural programmes, books and magazines for our citizens and their children abroad. In order to strengthen the ties of the Turkish community's belonging to its motherland and its cultures, the Rafadan Crewer World Tour activities for our children in the diaspora were organised in 8 countries and 29 cities, with which nearly 100,000 people were reached. In addition, the meeting of Human Rights Education Programme and OHR Lawmakers is organised in areas such as legal problems and discrimination, right violations, Islamophobia, racism. Again, reports in Turkish and English of attacks targeting mosques and NGOs in our diaspora geography have been provided with presidential legal support for right violations targeting our citizens. The OHR served a total of 1 million people in 2019, with the purpose of allowing our citizens abroad to pass through border crossings to our country without problems. Honourable MPs, Turkey is not just Turkey. From North Africa to Caucasus, from the Balkans to the interior of Asia, our region has a common historical, religious, political and cultural heritage. In these areas, we have deep and profound relations with those communities that we describe as so-called family communities. As for the continuation of these long-standing relationships, the OHR is doing its job. During the EC PARTI period, Turkey also reflected its development in all areas from economy to foreign policy, IT and technology to social policy; from elementary school to higher education, it has made all educational institutions more qualified. Such attitudes and policies have begun to bear fruit today, and the number of international students currently studying at universities in our country has reached 150,000. Under its vision of education, the OHR conducts a number of studies for international students, with the Turkish Scholarships. As a matter of fact, today, with the Turkish scholarships, 16,000 international students from 144 countries around the world continue to study in our universities, tightening their love with our country and our nation day by day. With this belief, the bonds of great care and genuine intimacy also exist after visiting students successfully graduated from universities and joined the families of 150,000 Turkish graduates, who are working in 165 countries around the world.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0030par0318	Let's finish, Mr. Akay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0029par0319	Dear lawmakers, Turkey is now a country which is now active in foreign policy and is curious to know what the world has to say about its views on all its issues. Our Foreign Ministry operates with strong Turkish understanding on the table and in the field. Here, Turkey's family of international Turks performs an important task, which directly affects its field of influence, maneuverability, in the middle and long term, providing a significant part of the strengthening and supporting elements of Turkish foreign policy. Mr. President declared 2019 the Year of Gobeklitepe. We also await you to Gobeklitepe, and to Şanlıurfa, and to Harran. On this occasion, I send greetings to Turkish citizens and relatives all over the world, wishing that the budget of 2020 would be good, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0031par0324	Erzincan MP Burhan Çakır is next in line. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0032par0327	Mr. President, before I begin my words, I pray for the mercy of our heroic soldiers Kemal Sayar and Esma Çivib, who were killed by the explosion of handmade explosives set by terrorists in Idil district of Şırnak province yesterday; patience for their precious families and wounded soldiers. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2020, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. I salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens. Dear MPs, today is the 71st anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights remains a historical document to remind the international community of its obligations with basic values, freedoms and rights. Today, 70 years after his ad, we see the most basic human rights in various parts of the world being violated, millions of people being deprived of those rights. As the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's words of the world are greater than his. No matter where he is in the world, we will continue to oppose persecution, injustice and lawlessness; the voice of the oppressed, the conscience of humanity. Our determination in the Palestinian case, our cry for persecution against the Uygur Turks, our support for the oppressed Syrian people who had to flee the war and take refuge in our country will continue with determination. In this direction, our country, which considers maintaining human dignity to be the most basic value, continues its efforts to take further steps in the field of human rights. At this point, the presidency of the international Turks and Relative Communitys operates in many areas, particularly human rights and rights to education, which are consistent with Turkey's active foreign policy perspective. Today, more than 6 million citizens abroad face various challenges from foreign hostility to family harm, from education to equal participation. The presidency operates in various fields, such as fighting discrimination, Turkish education, human rights, political participation, Blue Card, duality, youth and sharing of experience, culture and art for this purpose. The presidential theme programmes have been developed by the presidency to strengthen the ties of our brothers and sisters with deep ties and deep ties to our country, to restore our common culture, to protect our historical heritage, to contribute to their education. International students from these countries, often referred to as family members, relatives, or brothers, come to our country to study in solidarity as Turkish graduates, and Turkey's Alumni Programme is under way to contribute to the development of our country's relations with their own countries. Sixty-three alumni programs have been organized so far. Dear lawmakers, as you know, one of the most important factors in the international integration of our country's universities in recent years is international students from many different parts of the world who have come to our country for education. As part of Turkey's scholarships, which have become a brand in this area, about 16,000 international students from 144 countries are currently studying at 125 universities in 70 different cities. Turkey's scholarships received approximately 146,600 applications from 167 countries in 2019, thus breaking its own record. As it turns out, since the first day we came to power as the EC PARTI, our citizens who had emigrated abroad and settled in countries where they had lived many years ago, on the other hand, our family, our relatives, our brothers and sisters, who, on the other hand, shared a historical, cultural and spiritual denominator...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0033par0336	Let's finish, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0032par0337	...and we're dealing with all the challenges they've experienced in co-ordinating the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys for a single hand and fast solution to the problems of international students coming to our country for education from all over the world. With that understanding, I'd like to thank the president for his selfless efforts to provide important services in a large area. I call upon my Lord to bless his final accounts of 2018, and especially that the budget offer of 2020 is good for our beloved nation and for our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0033par0340	In turn, it belongs to our Karabuk MP, Mr. Cumhur Ünal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0034par0343	Mr. President, dear MPs, first of all, I wish God's mercy to our soldiers who have been killed in Şırnak İdil. I wish patience to their families. I am sorry for the nation's head. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, I have made a commitment to present my views on the budget of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute. I salute you and our beloved nation. The Ataturk Institute of Language and History is an institution that aims to strengthen social integrity and solidarity around Ataturk and common values, to preserve and develop cultural wealth and diversity, to inherit our cultural heritage abroad and to prevent corruption and alienation in Turkey, to develop the knowledge of culture and history that covers all areas of life, to develop scientific research in the field of social and humanities. In 2019, the High Institution continued to support public institutions, particularly universities, and signed protocols and contracts for support and cooperation with public institutions and NGOs. In this context, the Integrated Information System, which has been implemented in 2020, will also be developed by additional modules in order to develop the institution and its institutions to produce institutional specific information, to create environments to produce information in the field of social and human sciences. In 2019, a total of 535 people were granted a scholarship, including 249 licenses, 101 Masters, 177 Ph.D.s and 8 Ph.D.s. In 2020, a total of 312 scholarships, including 168 licenses, 84 master's and 60 PhD scholarships, are planned to be supported. To date, the institution has organised scientific activities in over 40 countries and 75 different cities in our country. In 2020, 116 scientific events are scheduled to take place. In 2019, institutions within the High Institution participated in a total of 76 book fairs, 56 nationals and 20 internationals, in order to promote and publish works related to Ataturcian thought, Ataturk principles and articles, Turkish culture, Turkish history and Turkish language. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I'd like to make a brief mention of our Karabuk provinces and our counties, where Turkish history and culture are the greatest. Karabuk, whose population grew daily, was the province of Karabuk in 1953 and the 78th province of Turkey on June 6, 1995. Karabuk is a republic city because it is the first city to be formed after the declaration of the Republic. In the ancient era of Karabük, our province was passed as the ancient history of Homer. Indirectly, the Hitites, Frigler, Lidians, Persians, Hellenistic kingdoms, Romans, Seljucians, Shepherds, the Candarites, and the Ottomans ruled the region. Karabük is the first and only city of planned industry, with historical, cultural values and natural beauty along with its surrounding and boroughs, and is the largest city in Turkey. In this cultural wealth, our historic Safranpoli district, which is the town of Safranpolis, which was taken into the World Heritage List in 1994 by UNESCO, a model of the history of the Turkish-Islam urban history, particularly the traditional urban fabric, the wood stacking houses, the inn, the baths, the mosques and the water belts, the first Turkish-Islamic town; our green Yenice district, which has the most forested area, and the famous Hadrianapolis Anti-Eskipazar district; our first Turkish-Islam Candar, with its structure; the Black Seas, which is the first Turkish-Ist village; and the first Turkish-Istressstrestrest of the Black Sea.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0035par0351	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0034par0352	I hereby wish the 2018 final account and the 2020 budget to be good, and I respectfully salute our beloved nation, who are watching us at the very beginning of the Grand Assembly and its screens.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0035par0354	Şanlıurfa MP Halil Özşavlı is in charge. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0036par0357	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. I have made a commitment to discuss the budgets of the Turkish Historical Foundation and the Turkish Language Association for 2020. Before I begin my words, I thank God for all our martyrs who have drunk their testimony for this great land. Both the Turkish Historical Institution and the Turkish Language Foundation are two important institutions founded by the directives of Ataturk. When we looked at the Turkish Historical Society, it was formed as a Turkish Historical Committee on 28 April 1930 to study Turkish history and civilization in scientific ways. In the following years, the Turkish Historical Association of Tedkik was named after the Turkish Historical Society on April 15, 1931, and the Turkish Historical Society on October 3, 1935. The 1982 Constitution and the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History were established, and four institutions, including the Ataturk Research Centre, Ataturk Cultural Centre, the Turkish Historical Foundation and the Turkish Language Foundation, were combined. The Turkish Historical Society has 116 personnel today. Some of them are staffed and others are under contract. When we look at the Turkish Historical Society's field of duty, it can be classified as the first scientific study of Turkish history, as I have just stated, as well as conducting scientific publications, organizing scientific meetings such as study, symposium, and, above all, giving scholarships. There are 20 scientific excavation projects supported by the Turkish Historical Society in 2019. This minor contributes to Turkish archeology. In 2020, 10 more projects will be supported. In 2016, the Turkish Historical Association organized 27 scientific meetings in 2017, 57 in 2017, 8 in 2018 and 42 in 2019. By the scientific meeting, I mean, the symposium that I've just described are meetings like workshops and panels. These meetings are highly important, and I personally have attended many meetings. From abroad and abroad, academics from all over the world submit articles to the Turkish Historical Foundation to pass through an arbitrator filter prior to their notifications, and the accepted are presented in the relevant history and location of the symposium. These meetings contribute to science as well as a great contribution to our country's promotion. The academics from abroad meet the beauty of our country. When we looked at the publications, there were 73 broadcasts by the Turkish Historical Society in 2019. In 2020, 52 new broadcasts are scheduled to be released. There are 196,778 library materials at the Turkish Historical Society Library. When we look at scholarships, 125 undergraduates are granted $1,000, 50 graduate students £1,500, and 50 Ph.D. students are granted £2.250. In addition, there are foreign research scholarships, which we call the post PhD. My personal -- this poor de -- was able to conduct a year of research in England on a post-doc scholarship from the Turkish Historical Society in 2017. I'd like to express my gratitude to our institution at this very moment. When we look at the Turkish Language Foundation, it has similar studies. It was founded in 1932 to reveal the true beauty and wealth of Turkish language and to bring it to the height worthy of its value among the earth's languages. The Turkish Language Research Agency was named after the Turkish Language Foundation in 1934, and the Turkish Language Foundation in 1936. Scientific publications, scientific projects, are also involved in the publishing areas of the Turkish Language Foundation, such as the Turkish Historical Institution. Similar amounts of scholarships are granted by the Turkish Language Association to Turkish candidates. As I put an end to my words, I wish you all the best in the 2020 budget for our country and our nation, and I salute you all. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0037par0367	It's time for our Nevşehir MP, Mr. Mustafa Deliberate. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Smarty-pants.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0038par0370	Mr. President, my esteemed Court, my esteemed MPs, my dear and heroic nation, I salute you with love and love and conversation. May our 2020 budget be blessed and prosperous. The budget of 2020 is not only Turkey's budget, but the budget of the nation's geography, which moans in blood and tears of innocents who have linked the hope of the world's oppressed geography to Turkey and us. Hopefully, our nation's leader, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is a peaceful guarantee of the rich and improved region of Turkey. In addition, Turkey is the only true defender and protector of the oppressed and innocents of the world, where all persecution and injustice rage. Turkey, outside of its physical limits, is bordering the world by the heart's geography. For the uninterrupted integrity of this paradise, I ask God's mercy on our beloved heroes, our martyrs, who have fallen to the ground for all our sacred values. May our veterans have a blessed and prosperous life. Let the whole world know that our fight against the bloody, human-hating terrorist organizations will continue until the end. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have spoken in this matter in a manner of speaking about the President of Cappadocia and Cappadocia. But there are little questions left in the heads, you know, I'm going to have to make little explanations for them. Cappadocia had many different protection statuses, such as archaeological, urban and natural sites, cultural and tourism protection development areas, and national parks. The confusion of authority that led to this situation opened the way for illegal construction from the past to the present, and we could not fully protect this unique land of beauty. So that's the basis, the basis, and the purpose of the law, and all our governments have done it. Of course, the protection committees referred their decisions to relevant ministries, and with the ministries leaving it to each other and the municipalities looking cold, they could not prevent the collapse and prevention of illegal structures. So that's exactly the point of the field administration, which is to gather the authority in one hand and identify the illegal structure, and follow it to the destruction of the illegal structure. So one authority would follow and destroy that structure, that's what the Alan presidency was built for. As you can see, the first and foremost duty of the field presidency is to protect our territory. Of course, especially with Mr. President's sensitivity to the subject, nearly 250 people have been eliminated, as determined by the pursuit of our Minister of Culture and Tourism Mehmet Bey. Again, our Observation National Park in UNESCO World Heritage List, the Deepkuyu and Subterranean Cities have been handed over to the Cappadocia Area, which is an efficient and effective protection area, according to the essence of the law. Thus, criticism here is unfair and unjust. Again, 96 percent of the area is private, personal property, friends. So there's no reason or conscience to create a rant here. So again, the criticism here is unfair and unjust. Again, the Alan presidency was designed to tackle the area from a holistic perspective, plan it, introduce it more effectively and advertise it, find fast and efficient solutions to the needs of the field. Investors have been prevented from going door-to-door, and have been dealt with by a single-handed Alan presidency. Right now, we need to move quickly to the top-scale Cappadocian plan, where the field will be evaluated in a holistic way to ensure that the field is most needed and protected and kept alive. Dear lawmakers, my beautiful and dear Nevcity citizens are the tourist lover who knows what a foreign and domestic guest is, who knows the value of a tourist and never forgets it's his own future. With the vision, intelligence, vision, and entrepreneurial spirit of my Nevcity residents, they have built rock-carved boutique hotels, digging underground warehouses and bringing balloons to the region, adding great value to the region. Congratulations to all of them, really. We've established together the field president that they want so badly to make it easier for our tourist lover, entrepreneur, visionary fellow citizens. Our Alan Commission is holding its meetings, and it's been decided up to 50 or so. Our building is ready, our organization is ready, and with Allah's permission, we are under the command of both Cappadocia and Turkish tourism. Cappadocia is the favorite place of customers with distinguished guests who stay and leave the country with the most foreign currency. Cappadocia will soon become the engine of Turkish tourism, the face of Turkey's advertising. Cappadocia will give the biggest support for Turkish tourism and the country's economy again. My dear fellow lawmakers, we've invited our ministers, our deputies, to the region in this very moment. Many have responded to our invitation, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0039par0380	When?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0040par0381	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0038par0382	At the end of the day, our ministers and our fellow lawmakers said they came across a much more beautiful, more beautiful area than they had imagined, and much more beautiful than we had described. So I'm going to repeat my invitation here again, and I'm going to say capadocia...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0039par0383	You invited me last semester, thank you!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0038par0384	Yes, Mr. President?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0039par0385	You were taking the whole coven last semester!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0041par0386	Go ahead, pack it up, you're out of time.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0038par0387	You don't tell capadocia, you come and you see it and you admire it, friends.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0039par0389	And you can't go!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0038par0390	So it's just... of course, we have Kozakaklı out of the field, a healing water source, 8,000 beds, and a service for all Turkey, with many healing waters. We have another Haci Bektas Veli rice, a representative of love and tolerance. Nevşehir is a truly beautiful place, with the ground below, with humanity, with its nature, and I'm waiting for all of you. I wish our budget of 2020 would bring no to our country, our nation, our nation, the nation, blessings, peace, and I salute the High Assembly and our beloved nation with respect and love.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0042par0393	Dear lawmakers, this is how we listened to the speech of our spokesman for the Justice and Development Party Group. Now it's time for the good party. The first word for the group belongs to Mr. Aytun Çıray. (APPLAUSE IN THE GOOD PARTY. Mr. Cherry, your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0043par0396	Mr. President and the esteemed members of the Grand Assembly have attempted to commit a treasonous attempt on the evening of July 15, 2016, which has carried out one of history's largest secret organization organizations within the state. He came to the stage of this treasonous attempt because it was being carried out in front of the Turkish Armed Forces. It's not in vain that I would say in plain sight, because they were so masterful of their plans for bloody terror that they managed to sell the Turkish Armed Forces' honorable commanders as members of a terrorist organization to make it look like they were removing military custody. My dear friends, at first glance, you have made a commitment to the budget of the National Assembly and its institutional structure, and you enter into the promise of a different event, so what's that got to do with it? Let me answer immediately: I began last year's budget closing speech, which I had promised on behalf of the Good PARTI Group in 2018, referring to the beginning of the speech of 9th President Süleyman Demirel, on February 28, 1968, from this assembly stand. I specifically noted the opening sentences of his speech, stating that it took exactly six hours for our President to present to the House that day as a form of silence. What did our dear late President say in those opening sentences? For the past five days, the budget has been discussed in this Parliament. This is a long, reasonable time, because the budget is a very serious business, so no distractions. Why? Because the budget is the basis of democracy that our nation should ask for every penny and learn where the tax money is going. With respect for democracy and democratic insights, I would like to take a different perspective on the reason why I am referring to these sentences of the saintly President, who is an exceptional part of our pluralistic democratic experience. My dear friends, after July 15, 2016, Turkey should focus on the enlightenment of this menhus event, giving it all its energy. The spirit of the new door would require that attitude. An investigation was immediately launched into parliament, at least to establish a research commission under CHP leadership. The Turkish nation and the public also demanded and supported it. In the end, the commission, known as the research commission, was established in the short term of our public coup. From the beginning of October 2016, he began working effectively. In the first month and a half, the commission carried out a truly effective and efficient activity. In particular, the testimony of the Chiefs of Staff before 2016 provided significant clues to the responsibility of the ruling party in the religious organisation. As things were going so well, suddenly, Mr. Bahçeli proposed a new constitutional proposal, and the agenda changed. The commission became Battal, and we found that when the new draft constitution was discovered by the ruling party, it was a constitutional proposal from the People's Assembly that has either narrowed or removed the functions of this great institution, especially since its establishment, to make the nation's budget and control, or to completely eliminate it, to open the way for a new regime change. Members of parliament, the regime has actually been changed in Turkey on 17 April 2017 with a questionable referendum on the High Election Board, where the horse's owner passed Skopüdar. Prior to the referendum, real lawyers and philosophers stressed that the envisioned changes would eliminate the power of the Grand Assembly to budget on behalf of parliament. This was basically the destruction and destruction of a fundamental constitutional rule since the Great Freedom Order, the Magna Carta Libertatum, published in 1215. According to this rule, the authority to pay taxes was not to be left to just one person, no matter what the king or ruler -- no matter what you call it -- the president was to be in the parliament and only the high council. Dear lawmakers, the adoption of constitutional amendments, executive power from the government of the Prime Minister and the President's leadership, the first rule of destruction has become even more dramatic, and this clause was completed with a sentence that would virtually eliminate the link between Parliament and the budget. A temporary budget law will be passed if parliament fails to adopt the president's budget, and if not, the budget of the previous year would be increased and implemented according to the re-valuement rate. Dear friends, all these changes were accepted on 17 April 2017, followed by early elections. The immediate activation of constitutional changes that define the new regime, preventing the PARTI (ICJP) from entering the elections with the speed of hand, and an early election aimed at the impact of the economic crisis, which the citizen felt and burned to the bone in his daily life today. For these reasons, the elections, which should have been held on November 2019, were moved forward for about a year and a half, and the presidential and parliamentary general elections were held on 24 June 2018. However, this time it was our turn to surprise Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, the leader of the CHP, and the moral politics of the 15 CHP MPs accompanying him, and then we broke down the game of preventing the PARTİ PARTI from running at the right moment, with Mr. Meral Akşener, our president, who led us to do what was right, and then the Party of Saadet and the Democratic Party and the National Alliance. But of course politics is the art of doing what is possible. That's why we haven't reached our goal as the National Alliance. As it has always been for the past ten years, in a conjunctured conjunctural conjunctive, the parameters of deception have been operated in the most practical way, but the success of the Cumhur Alliance will actually become unmanageable with our regime. It has been the beginning of the accuracy of our claims. A regime has emerged in the world that political scientists have described as a total freak. And this freak has a strange name: the presidential government system. The new regime was released on July 10, 2018, after the President was sworn in before Parliament on July 9, 2018. The presidential decree of lu began to establish. The parliamentary system, based on the principle of separation of forces, has also been transformed into a unity regime, with a chain of decrees following this, where everything and the right to budget have been collected in one person. My dear friends, after a year and a half of elections, we have begun to understand that this is the saddest transformation in our history. Our citizens accept the fact that every day -- as the polls show before us -- the Assembly is Turkey's most valuable institution, that it is a guarantee of its pursuit of prosperity and happiness. If the referendum is repeated on April 17, 2017, the result will end with the loss of the Cumhur Alliance, just as it happened at İstanbul Metropolitan Mayorate, which is a very clear distinction, with the difference that no High Election Council will remove the skill and sleight of hand. So if a referendum were to be held today -- which you wouldn't dare -- Turkey would move to the liberal parliamentary system, improved and strengthened by the choice of an unwavering voter. So, you're going to say: what does this have to do with public supervision, what does it have to do with ombudsmanism and its budget? It has a lot, a lot to do with it. The Public Control Agency, as it is known, is a Parliamentary institution in accordance with Article 74 of our Constitution. The 74th article of our Constitution states that citizens of the Republic of Turkey and foreigners who reside in Turkey have the right to apply to authorities and to the Grand National Assembly on their own wishes and complaints concerning the public. The Public Control Agency performs this mission. This mission is essentially intermediary; it includes acting on a request or complaint against any public institution, reporting on the consequences of the petitions and complaints that have been placed in place. The meaning of the original source of the institution, the word "ombudsman" is also mediating. My dear friends, this institution within our House is of great value, of course. In fact, Mr. Malkoc, an experienced and respected politician in the past, is the head of the institution. And when you're already on the website of the institution, you can see that it's seriously handling a series of complaints and wishes, but at this point we have to remember something very critical, even vital, that we're doing for the Turkish nation under its roof -- essentially, as a whole, it's an enormous ombudsmanship institution. As MPs, we are each an ombudsman. This mission to be a deputy is the most important job we have to perform as soon as we're relieved through democratic elections. So the largest institutional roof of ombudsmandom is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, to the place where he calls himself, can our friends in power say that they're doing this job well when it's necessary? Look, in the two weeks that we've left behind, you've blacked out and approved a law that will hurt your conscience. You see what I mean, I'm talking about the adoption of a law amendment that passed two and a half years to install filtration systems on 24 thermal plants. If we had asked our people in the settlements of these plants, such as our Silopian brother and our Somese citizens who were still burned with 300 mine workers, how would you look at this change? We've been poisoned with enough coal smoke, shouldn't our children at least be poisoned? Wouldn't they have given those wishes to the Public Control Agency as soon as they gave them to us? You ruling MPs, if you had acted with the right and conscience of the ombudsman, I think there's a separation of forces. Even if it was a metaphor to say, it wouldn't have left here. But that's not what happened. With the vote of the Cumhur Alliance, two and a half years have passed the offer to postpone wearing filters, and the president has vetoed himself to become a good human. In fact, it's always been the good guy-bad guy, the carrot-stick game again. Some of our fellow executives and fellow pencils have tried to prove that the principle of separation of forces exists and operates. With that kind of understanding, can the ruling lawmakers be ombudsmans? Finally, as an ombudsman, I'd like to tell the Treasury and Finance Ministry that you've made a point with the Foundation, but please don't touch the Business Bank. We're starting to hear things. So if you want it to remain a real entity that serves the wealth of the Turkish nation, don't mix it up with nothing by transferring it to the asset fund. As a proxy, as a mediator, as an ombudsman, I will not be in charge. Don't you dare touch it, it's disappearing, don't touch the Business Bank, let it exist.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0044par0411	In turn, it belongs to our Antalya MP, Mr. Hasan Subaş. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Subi.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0045par0413	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a commitment to the Constitutional Court and the Court to propose a budget law. The Constitutional Court was first placed in the Constitution of 1961 and completed its establishment in Law 44 on 22/4/62. The Constitutional Court oversees the shape and fundamental fitness of laws and the Constitutional Court of the Turkish National Assembly. The Constitution judges those who are counted in the Court as the Supreme Court for crimes related to their duties. In addition, it has been authorized to look at cases concerning the closure of political parties, to examine the finances and costs of political parties, and to perform other tasks given by the Constitution. With the Constitution of 1982, the Constitution has been authorized to maintain authority, but the Constitution has also been authorized to oversee the shape and fundamental fitness of the laws and laws of the law. On September 12, 2010, the public vote authorized the individual applications to be finalised, and after changes made with Law 6771 on January 21, 2017, the presidential decrees were authorized to examine the allegations of violation of the Constitution in terms of form and fundamentality. According to this law, 12 of the 15 members assigned for 12 years are appointed directly by the President, and 3 members are determined by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As a result, the president has a direct or indirect impact on the election of 15 members. It is also a criticism that there are no women among the 15 members. In the process, we can say that the Supreme Court, the most important control mechanism of the regime, has failed to carry out its mandate and has taken its part in the breach of trust. The Court, founded in 1862 by Sultan Abdulaziz, was made a constitutional institution in the Constitution of 1876. The Constitution of 1924 and the constitutional identity of the Republic were redefined in the period. The Constitution clearly states that Turkey is bound by the Grand National Assembly and is tasked with overseeing all the state's revenues and expenses. The Constitution of 1961 has been maintained, it has been implemented; the Court has been tasked, under Article 160 of the Constitution of 1982, as part of the central management budget, to oversee and judge all the revenues and costs of public administration and social security institutions and their goods on behalf of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. With changes made in 2003 and 2006, the Court's mandate was further expanded. The public fiscal structure, reshaped in the integration process of the European Union, has forced a change in the Court's Law. After 2010, their powers began to be narrowed down, and the audit report, which could be considered a territorial audit, was determined that the public administration would not be able to hold opinions and reports that would limit the discretion of the government. The Court's 132 reports on public administrations in 2012 were not submitted to the Parliamentary General Assembly for the first time in an unsupervised year on the grounds that the bag was not in accordance with the law held in mid-year. Under the August 2012 regulation, some public institutions needed privacy and were prevented from reflecting the Court's reports to the public. Some laws have been changed in 2016 and are envisioned to be excluded from the Court's control of new companies built by the Entity Fund Corporation and the Fund. In addition, companies where the public's share is less than 50 per cent have been excluded from the Court's supervision. Some companies, such as the Tank Palet Factory, are suspected to be behind privatisation and the efforts to reduce public interest. As you can see, the Court's audits have gradually lost effect. In the presentation of the budget, the central management budget of 2020 was designed to strengthen accountability and financial transparency. Even though the statement was used, the government dislikes control and transparency, the presidency is created with a destructive system that controls them, controls them, doesn't operate, but does not want to give any account in the government system. Granted, the Court is still one of the few institutions in its area of authority that try to do its job properly, despite its difficult conditions. It is not possible to say the same for the Constitutional Court, which can be considered the guarantee of the state of law, but it is a good thing we do. Talking about the budgets of these two institutions, which have a vital function in democratic law states, and whether they are competent, has lost its value in the fact that they are beginning to lose their function. The true function of these two distinguished institutions is of great importance to our country's unity, peace and security. The Constitutional Court, unfortunately, has not been able to oversee the provisions of the State of Emergency and has become lawless. He couldn't make a detailed decision that could be a precedent for the army of victims who were victimized by judicial decrees, who could not even return to office, even if they were acquitted. When he sent all the files to the State of Emergency Commission, he caused investigations and investigations to go into a deadlock. The breach of the Constitution was almost taken for granted. Each bag of legislation contains violations of many of the Constitution's provisions. The head of running the presidency in the government system is the fact that a president who has taken an oath of neutrality cannot remain neutral is fundamentally contrary to the Constitution. I don't respect the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I find it wrong. If he can say it, is it possible to ensure the credibility of judicial institutions? Isn't it a violation of the Constitution if the president is describing crimes on TVs about those arrested or released? If the judgment is affected by all of this and reflects on your decisions, does it have any credibility? Unfortunately, his credibility has been severely compromised. On November 7, 2019, the Constitutional Court ruled for the second time that the criminal court had failed to comply with the violation of its decision, and that the applicants should be compensated.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0046par0424	Let's complete it, Mr. Subo.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0045par0425	As you can see, the Constitutional Court has decided with a new verdict that it would be a constitutional violation of the court's failure to comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions, and that compensation should be paid. The Constitutional Court, which needs to decide on the obligation to abide by judicial decisions, also reflects the sad state of the judiciary. He said that even if we were to end the terrorist organization at the recent religious community, it could turn into another terrorist organization. It means that a climate that creates terrorism can exist in our country. If only there was enough focus on the causes that created terror instead of just the ease of putting up with the outside forces, then it would be seen that lawlessness and injustice were part of the climate that feeds terrorism.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0046par0428	Salute, Mr. Subas.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0045par0429	With these feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0046par0431	In turn, it belongs to our Ankara MP, Mr. İbrahim Halil Oral. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0047par0434	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the well-being party on the budgets of the esteemed MPs, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the President of Cappadocia and the General Directorate of Foundations. I salute your high council. After conducting a study of the historical and cultural values of my hometown, I remember Professor Haluk Dursun Hodja, a precious scientist who walked to Hakk with my hand in a car accident, and with mercy and prayer, starting with these feelings. Precious MPs, called culture, come to mind by the great sociologist and Turkish nationalist Ziya Gökalp. While describing the Turkish identity, Gökalp used the concept of "hars" or "culture," and described Turkish nationalism as a cultural nationalism. Professor Erol Güngör, a great Turkish nationalist who represents the same tradition, said: "It is possible for a nation to have the strength to live, with the very strong basis in its culture." That's what he said. In this context, we can clearly say that the Ministry of Culture is the Ministry that will feed the Turkish identity as a spring and will increase the survival of the Turkish nation. Mr. President, I want to run the country as a company by the time we get to the presidential government system. In this minor, we see that Mr. Erdogan does not value culture enough, while he is trying to manage tourism with our Minister, who owns a tourism company. Tourism may be run like a company, but culture that allows a nation to live can't be run like a company. Culture is really raised along with people who are devoted to that culture. This budget is a sign that cultural issues cannot be managed. Respected MPs, the passing of Haluk Dursun Hodja has been the loss of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism's title, since it is clear that the Minister does not have a vision of a policy on culture, as we have seen in both the presentations of the Commission and its general statements. As the Commission interprets the issues related to tourism in every detail, we have, unfortunately, only built this cultural centre in cultural matters. We have fixed this museum. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism should be the ministry to develop a cultural policy to improve the culture that shapes the identity of this country. This ministry is not the ministry of organizing the tourism runt, it shouldn't be. As a member of the Tourism Commission, I can clearly say that the laws brought in during this period do not see any work other than making fine arrangements, bringing in new taxes, and making other relevant names a member of agencies. Precious MPs, there are serious shortcomings of the National Library in Ankara; research and reading halls are insufficient. The National Library should be able to buy books from 24 hours of storage. It is imperative that the construction of the new and unfinished storage facility be completed immediately, and that it be carried out in order to include new reading rooms, if possible. Respected lawmakers, when it comes to culture, I felt the need to say a few words about one of our historical beings, Ahlat. Ethlat is another, because it is a settlement dating back to the year 2000 B.C.E., and it has such a date. Abdurrahman Gazi, the son of Muaz bin Caleb, was a martyr to Ahlat. Osman Gazi's father, Ertugrul Gazi, was born and raised here. Sultan Alparslan, the great ruler before the Battle of Malazgirt, opened the gates of Anatolia, established a headquarters here with his armies. It is a city of the Ottomans, a city of the fathers. Hulasa Ahlat is Turkish, Athlat is Turkish, Anatolia is Turkish, Turkey is Turkish. All political parties in Turkey's Grand National Assembly are committed to the subject of Ahlat. In the 21st century, with the support of all political party groups, a research commission was established that I was the president of, and he worked on Ahlat, but his work remained hard because of the early election. I am calling on the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to complete the unfinished matter: Let a study be done to build the cultural capital of our country and to restore it to a special status, and we will be happy to support it. Honourable lawmakers, the presidential budget has increased by 8.6, while the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget has been cut by 9.5. With this dwindling budget, it is clear that a busy ministry, such as the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, will not provide sufficient efficiency. We are a great nation who spent money in the absence of the National War and founded the Museum of Anatolian Civilities in Ankara, and we must do what is worthy of this practice. It seems that the Ministry of Culture and Tourism will be inadequate to improve our national culture, and in tourism, whatever we remove from the set, it will act with logic. There's no way a budget can help our nation in this way. Congressmans, two weeks ago I was in Nevşehir for party work. In Nevşehir, I received some information about the operations of the Cappadocia Field Office, and I also visited our governor, the president of Cappadocia. The governor also confirmed and stressed that the presidency was established by one hand to ensure faster action and special attention. But from his knowledge and also from what we've learned, there is chaos in the Cappadocia region. Many mistakes have been made here in the past; hotels have been built at the bottom of their peribacas, huts have been built in many places, rants have taken over. Although the capadocian field presidency is a useful structure, I don't think we can wait for the power to correct things with a change of law, which is the sin of creating this range and this thala. I also think that Aksaray should be taken as the entrance to Cappadocia as the head of the field. Dear MPs, Turkish-Islam culture is a foundation culture. This social order took hundreds of years for the owner to dedicate his property to public service. It is clear that the AK PARTY authorities have done the greatest damage to this culture. If there are dozens of foundations behind the July 15th betrayal, if there are many structures that have emptied our great religion, if the foundation of the Bank of Foundations is known for child abuse today, if it is known for the waste of millions of dollars of money taken from municipalities, if it is known for the use of money taken from municipalities, if the foundation of the foundation has been compromised by the foundation of the foundation, then the foundation of the foundation of the Foundation has been handed over to the Treasury Ministry of Treasury, and if the foundation has been reduced to the foundation of the foundation, then the foundation of the foundation has been executed, and it has been executed. It is also embarrassing that an institution with historical responsibilities such as the General Directorate of Foundations is remembered for various irregularities in the Court reports. It's been registered throughout history with foundations and prayers and curses. Sultan II. The prayer of Mahmoud's Deputy Treasurer Hafiz in the 1818 foundation of Jesus Agha is the best answer. Look, Mr. Hafiz Jesus says: "Let not those who consume their income wrongfully be happy in this world and in the Hereafter. Respected lawmakers, I'd like to express this important matter as I finish my words with these thoughts. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism should have separate ministries and should be budgeted accordingly. I especially think it is essential that the culture issues, which are the nutritious source of Turkish identity, be carried out with much more detailed policies, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0048par0456	In turn, it belongs to Mr. Aydın Adnan Sezgin. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Sezgin.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0049par0459	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I first commemorate the Day of Human Rights on December 10th, condemning the dire state of human rights in our country, the rights and fundamental violations of freedom that have been inflicted on our international lineage and the rights of all undestined people. I have made a pledge on behalf of the President of Turkey's Writers' Association, Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency and on the budgets of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. Because of the threat of moisture and dampness of the Ottoman archives, the research proposal, which we recently brought to the General Assembly as the PARTI, was rejected by the ruling party and its partner, which is very important to our history and culture. We hope that the President of Turkey's Writer's Office will make a serious commitment to the ownership of these artifacts, and that our rich archives can be passed on to future generations. It is a question mark in itself that TİKA and OHR are not connected to the State Department. We've said this on various occasions before. Both institutions are persistently trying to be kept out of our traditional foreign policy decision-making process and are managed in a non-transparency manner. It's hard to see why, given the progress of the 15th of July. However, after July 15th, it is doubtful that these institutions are still involved with associations and foundations that have very close and complex ties to power. This leads to the perception that these institutions have been exploited to transfer public resources to a number of people and institutions. We can't get meaningful answers to the questions asked. I'd like to rephrase something that I've mentioned in my previous conversations. The tendency of certain TİKA and OHR members to act independently of embassies in countries where they serve poses problems for both Turkish diplomacy and the credibility of these institutions, as well as for our relations with related countries or some environments in the countries. At this point, you have to be serious and careful. The Court's reports have made significant assessments of the TİKA (TİKA). In detail, the Court's audit report of 2018, where strategic plans have been meticulously prepared, with some basic problems with the use of the budget, and many of our doubts and concerns have been confirmed. According to the report, the institutional risk management system was not established in TİKA. This is a grave lack, a serious negligence. Another of the findings in the Court report is that the purchases made in TİKA (TİKA)'s foreign offices are being fixed directly without being recorded in the assets account. The report shows that TİKA financial tables do not reflect the real situation. So there's a leak in the institution budget -- I'll underline it -- I hope it's not one of those leaks in the past. In addition, the Court's report states that the service building used by the institution has not been registered, which is odd in itself. Another assessment of the Court is that there are errors in accounting in the purchase and use of conditional donations and benefits. While financial management and budget are already important to usage, these illegal practices are not being done consciously, we hope, in order to smuggle things out of public opinion and the Court's control. In the past Court reports, no steps have been taken, even though the institution has pledged to correct them. The mindset must be abandoned to view TİKA and OHR as a means of income, political, ideological desire and the financier of dreams. The presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad is an important institution as to its functions. Our citizens and relatives living abroad are of course very important to our foreign policy, but unfortunately we have no foreign policy. I'd like to point out something when we talk about foreign Turks. Our citizens living abroad should be the most important group among the target populations of this institution. Of course, our relatives are very important to our perspective on international relations, and the importance given to them must be both increased and rationalized. In this regard, we unanimously agreed to the establishment of the Subcommittee of Foreign Affairs and Associations of Foreign Affairs under the roof of the Foreign Commission. I wish for a new subcommittee to establish an active structure immediately and to have the group restored to the necessary facilities as soon as possible. The cultural and social projects of the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad are absolutely important, provided it is implemented without a hidden agenda. But what concrete projects have been carried out for our relatives? What is being done to take care of the Syrian Turks, especially in a very delicate situation, and what is foreseen for the future? For example, how many Syrian Turks have the OHR supported in Turkey this year, how many Uygur Turks? HOW many projects have TİKA carried out in East Turkistan in recent years? You know, the systematic oppression, torture and persecution of Uygur Turks in East Turkistan, except Turkey, almost all countries of the world, NGOs and international organisations, are being questioned and conducted as a major problem. The United Nations reports indicate that more than 1 million Uygur Turks are in the Chinese dictatorship's camps. Our family members are exposed not only to camps but also to discrimination, oppression, and violence in their daily lives. The treatment our kin are subject to is universally critical and in the category of mass human rights. Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 407 against one, condemning developments in East Turkistan and the abuse of our family members. Based on the official documents of the 17 Western press institutions under the roof of the International Investigative Journalists Consortium, it has been revealed that the Uygur Turks held in camps in East Turkistan were actually locked up in prisons, punished and subjected to brainwashing. This has been published in foreign newspapers for days, but unfortunately, it has been very limited to our media.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0050par0474	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0049par0475	Thank you. While many international organisations and states voiced their objections, the government in Turkey has declined even to express the issue, unfortunately, and is unable to respond to tragic developments. (Applause from the GOOD PARTY) The Chinese administration has not provided satisfactory answers to my proposals to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the questions I've asked the Minister of the Budget in the past few weeks regarding the steps taken and the steps being thought to take. In the State Department's 2018 operational report, the eastern Turkistan region is referred to as the Uygur Autonomous Region, and is not even used for Uygur Turks. In fact, Mr. President, during his visit to China, he used his statements regarding the Uygur Turks in the welfare and happiness.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0050par0478	Mr. Sezgin...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0049par0479	Thank you. The scandal at the March 2019 meeting of the Islamic Co-operation Agency is also known to all. Mr. Erdogan, who was President of the Summit, was able to appreciate the service of the People's Republic of China to Muslim citizens. If the persecution of East Turkistan is tolerated for the sake of our economic relations with China, it will cost us a great deal in our history and future. In the case of East Turkistan, a government condemned to shame because of a number of relations with China, which we do not know about is also being questioned whether it really needs institutions such as OHR. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0051par0483	In turn, it belongs to our Ankara MP, Mr. Senol Sunat. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0052par0486	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group regarding the budget of 2020, of the esteemed MPs, Radio and Television Supreme Council, the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet and the General Directorate of State Theatres. I salute the High Council. Before I began my talk, yesterday we killed our sons Esma Çvik in Şırnak and Kemal Sayar, and Halil Çağla Yıldırım in Bingol. I pray to God for mercy for those who have died, my condolences to their families and to the mighty Turkish nation, and to our wounded. Dear MPs, today is also the World Human Rights Day of December 10th. Seventy-one years have passed since the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted. Yes, we speak of human rights one day, but we see violations every day and we live. It's not your rights, it's the order, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way. The first of the rights of life. The statement says that we wake up every day with women's murders, mass business accidents, those who kill themselves, and in the meantime, I would like to say that it is unacceptable for our sons of our country to speak of the human rights of the traitorous terrorist organization, political and civil extensions, who took away the right to live without blinking an eye, without being innocent, without having a wink, innocent citizen's right to live. Unfortunately, we failed in the use of rights to thought and beliefs, education and health, social, cultural and economic rights. Human rights are not growing in areas where democracy, economic development, income justice, secularism, the state of law, the separation of forces is not being implemented, it's going backwards. Democracy is a regime with the largest protection of human rights and freedoms and open to development. Human rights is an integral part of democracy. The guarantee of democracy and human rights is the separation of forces. Two hundred and sixty-eight years ago, Montesquieu said, "There is no freedom in a system where law enforcement and judicial forces are assembled in one hand." Yes, we said that democracy and human rights are guaranteed by the separation of forces. The only regime where the principle of separation of forces can be implemented is the parliamentary system. AS A GOOD PARTI, we propose the improved, strengthened parliamentary system that demonstrates the healthy formula for separation of forces, which is the best expression of universal human rights, which is the basis of the protection of human rights and democracy, in which our unitary and national structure will be maintained in accordance with the basic philosophy of our republic; this is the only way out of Turkey. Members of parliament, RTÜK, radio and television are set up to organise and supervise the added internet activities. Under Article 133 of the Constitution, members are an autonomous and impartial public legal personality elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So, I ask you, how autonomous is RTÜK, how neutral is it? You're laughing, Congressman. Yeah, RTÜK doesn't stand in our way as an independent institution. Why do you have it, RTÜK? It's a club for those who use power. Why do you have RTÜK? There's to punish the opposition press; there's to back up pool media, supporting media, feeding media. What's RTÜK called? It is remembered for his president's being paid from three different places and for the unlawful discharge of the member who uncovered it. Is there freedom of the press, dear lawmakers? Do people have the right to hear the truth in our country? It's the right thing to do! Where? It will guarantee freedom of the press in the power of the good PARTI, lawmakers. Our people will freely exercise their right to information and information. Independent, transparent and neutral reporting will be provided. No press member or organization will face the threat of punishment for not reporting in the direction the government wants. No journalist will be imprisoned on the grounds that he is an opponent. The media will be obstructed by law by the development of guided media trusts restricting media freedom. The press and broadcast sector will be dismantled from the management of the conglomerate bosses. Public resources and power will not be used in any way for pressure, intimidation, and self-censorship in the PARTI administration. No matter what world opinion or political rhetoric, all media agencies, such as public ads, will benefit equally and fairly from revenue sources. Yes, RTÜK will be allowed to withdraw from political influence in the power of the good PARTI. Instead of an interventionist and restrictive RTÜK, the broadcast sector will be implemented to ensure an equal opportunity in the sector and the regulatory sector. He will also be stripped of control over the Internet media of the RTÜK. Yes, especially during election times, all political parties will be given enough time to reveal themselves to the public. TRT will be spared such political influence. TRT will be prevented from becoming the barley and propaganda tool of any political power. Wikipedia, YouTube, will prevent restrictions on access to collective content production places, and the community will have access to information. A new media and communication law will be drafted. Away from the interference of political authority, institutional structure will be established, media and communication will be established in vocational rooms. Yes, the provision and support necessary to turn our Ataturk (Ataturk) into an internationally respected news agency, which gives false and accurate news, will be put into practice primarily. The need for the development of local media will be taken care of. In the power of our party -- God willing -- the criteria for censorship will be based on the European Union. Congressmans, the theatre is a human art performed in front of the audience. It's about human life, and it's sort of the mirror of life. Yes, special laws of State Opera and Ballet have been revoked by presidential decrees issued after the presidential government system. The institution's own disciplinary board, repertoire and games have also been abolished, as well as the decent council, which is effective in determining the games, and the relevant clauses that provide the institution's budget apart from the Ministry. Yes, the decree stated that new boards were formed, and the three-member Council of Culture and Art Policy was linked to State Theatres and State Opera and Ballet. The president now appoints the general manager, staff and budget. Members of parliament, the victims of contractual personnel serving at State Theatres, State Opera and Ballet and the Office of Fine Arts continue, Mr. Secretary. The rights of subcontractor artists, who have neither pension nor notice rights, have not been restored. The pay-per-view culture slaves have given up on being staffed, and they're willing to be on a monthly contract. It's been promised. Still no sound. The presidential decree, which enabled their monthly work, came out. The relevant regulations have been published, but there is no application. We don't know what to expect. State Theatres have been staffed artists since 2010, without a manager, even though there are about 400 people who have retired or left. A lot of games are played with paid players. If this isn't modern slavery, what is it, lawmakers? The same goes for the technical staff working backstage. They can't get a staff, and they're living in a very stressful working environment. Tech personnel are working at 18 hours due to the restrictions of personnel at State Theatres and State Opera and Ballet Directors. On the other hand, the tours are being cancelled by the term "unsatisfactory." Again, the support for private theaters is very inadequate. On that day, the Minister announced in the Plan and Budget that 6 million 102 thousand liras were offered to the private theater. He said, "But if we divide it equally, a figure like 20,000 lira falls to the theatre. Someone gets paid more, someone gets less. For that, Mr. Secretary, we need assistance to strengthen the infrastructure. For one thing, the number of halls is still not enough compared to large cities in Anatolia. Costs are going up every day, like insurance premiums and VAT. Problems like tax burdens are the biggest problem in private theater. The rent of the collection halls is also astronomical. It's spread as much as you can get censorship and pressure again. The lowest criticism or opposition of playwrights, regulators, actors, comes back to them as investigations, prosecutions. Congressmans, as the GOOD PARTY, we consider it a prerequisite for the development of the culture and the art environment in a democratic environment. In our power, the Ministry of Culture will be a separate ministry. Cultural centers will be opened in all districts, including libraries, theatres and cinemas, as well as available facilities. City theatres will be established in all cities, State Theatres and State Opera and Ballet will be transformed into autonomous structures; these institutions will be allowed to govern themselves. State Theatres and State Opera and Ballet Directors will be strengthened in terms of financial, administrative and personnel rights. Studies in theatres, operas, ballets will be supported, and special studies will be encouraged to provide the East-West synthesis. Private theatres will receive tax cuts and state support will be increased. Art and artist will be guaranteed by the state. Artists who have been successful internationally will be given unconditional and complete support for their next project. Free living conditions will be provided for the artist's original and free production and execution. Members of parliament, we have been watching for 17 years a great theatre play in our country, where Turkish nation is an extra, the leading actors are professional marketers, the script is written by international companies, and our nation is being shown in different versions every year. You won't be able to fool the Turkish nation anymore. You won't be forced to watch this game. History will write the truth again, the game "Khakadad of the Nation" will be sold out in all the provinces of the country, and you will bow your heads and watch a real play from the real artists. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0053par0506	Mr. President, I have a brief request for my position, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0054par0507	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0053par0510	Mr. President, I listened carefully to Ms. Senol. We have no say in what they will do when they are in power. They fulfill their promises when they are in power. But it's good to clarify a few things: the president of the RTÜK receives a salary from one place. He resigned during these discussions, but there were never three, he resigned, he got paid from one place. So it's not like he's getting paid from three places. Second: RTÜK, you know, has an independent structure, and each political party is a member based on the parliamentary distribution, and these members perform their audit activities based on the votes there, so the representatives there often make an application if they decide. So it's not just an institution that we have a monopoly on. There are members of the Republican People's Party and members of other groups.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0054par0513	Finish it, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0055par0514	You sent a member.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0053par0515	There were members of the other parties. So I don't know if there's a member of the good party, but it comes to be decided by these members. The other thing is that we don't feel the need for the RTÜK member to be deposed or not to be reduced; we don't feel the need to get into the same argument. But there are statements that we've made about this, that are in the records. If you get a chance to take it and study it, you'll see our detailed explanations about it. I would also like to point out that our nation is our crown, and we have done nothing in spite of the nation for 17 years. Nothing happens in spite of the nation, and nothing happens in spite of the Turkish nation. In the position where we're standing, we're in the same parallel and line as our nation. Since that hasn't changed, the AK PARTY has always played the lead role, no extras. I'd like to announce this with respect to the public and to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0056par0518	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu. Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0057par0520	I understand the sensitivity of my dear colleague. Mr. Hatip, our Vice President, Senol Sunat Ma'am, has already set up a projection of the future. When you do righteous deeds, you will certainly have them with you; if your forehead is open, they will kiss you on the forehead, and you will shave your neck properly, and the time of the slap is near. Let me put it to you in a nice way. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0056par0523	The final word for the Good PARTI Group belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Ahat Andican.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0058par0524	Mr. President, we were in the system, but you started a procedure.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0056par0525	But, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0058par0526	You've started the procedure, if you'd like...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0056par0527	Here you go. Mr. Andican, wait a minute, I didn't see Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0058par0529	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0056par0530	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0058par0532	Mr. President, thank you. Now, there's nothing wrong with what Mr. Sunat said, the president of the RTÜK was paid from three places not too much, but 20 days ago.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0059par0534	Not three, you're wrong, two.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0058par0535	I'll tell you, sir, it's from RTÜK, TÜRKSAT, and the Press Agency.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0059par0536	The press didn't get it from the ad.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0058par0537	He took it, he took it. Now, the member of the Turkish Board of Directors has resigned after the debates, known as the RTÜKSAT Board, which has cost the public, as far as I know, because it is within the law that it does not take office with RTÜK (RTÜK)-related organisations, as well as this law has been violated.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0060par0540	Complete, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0058par0541	Right away, sir. So right now, the president of RTÜK is getting paid from two places. Mr. President, on this occasion, today is World Human Rights Day, and Turkey, unfortunately, is down in the world's human rights report card. Of course, no member of this Parliament -- including this one -- can accept it, can't digest it, but today I'd like to share this with the General Assembly and the public: the European Court of Human Rights has decided to violate the application of the business person Osman Kavala, who has been in prison for seven hundred and seventy days. With no reasonable doubt, the ECHR decided to find a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights of Europe, 5/1, 5/4 and 18 We're not interested in civil law and universal law and international agreements linking Turkey to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0061par0545	Complete, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0058par0546	These agreements are approved in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and will be brought to life. As the owner of these, we call on all members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- I'm not a party -- as the Republican People's Party Group at the point where the decision of the ECHR is to meet immediately. We want to think and hope that the same will exists in other political parties that form Parliament. Besides, today, on the basis of Human Rights Day, I have to say that the streets that fear power is the end, the street is democracy. Democracy is a regime of reactions and protests, but we have to regret to speak of a state that is violent against women protesting against women on the Day of the Earth's Resilience of Violence Against Women. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0062par0610	The last word for the group belongs to Mr. Ahat Andican. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Mr. Andican, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0063par0613	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Turkish Institute of History and the Turkish Language Foundation, are the two most important organizations that Ataturk (Ataturk) used to create the republic, which we now live in as citizens from the ashes of the Ottoman Empire, to me. Unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party and its leader seem to have problems with the policies established or run by our founder leader at that time and with that period, I know why, but it's hard to say from this bench. During the second republic debates before coming to power, Mr. Erdogan says that the Republic of Turkey has been in constant recession since 1923. Turkey's history has been wasted for 70 years. In another speech ten years after it came to power, you have neither the sick man of the Ottoman Republic nor the weak state of the republic -- undermining it -- the 1970s, the 90s. Now you have a nation locked on to the goals of 2023. At this point, Mr. Erdogan describes the Ataturk period on the ruins of the Liberation War as the unsustainable state, which today, without borrowing a penny from the outside, has created institutions and institutions that the AKP has sold tributes to, which have paid all of Ottoman's debt, despite the 1929 world crisis, have achieved an average growth rate of 8.5 per cent. According to the AKP President, the tenth Development Plan was a period of imaginary and unrealistic claims, such as $2 trillion in non-profit revenues, $25,000 per person per person, $500 billion in export targets and 5 per cent unemployment, all of which were in the state development plan -- all of which was the state development plan in the United States four years later, in other words -- $331 billion in foreign debt, over 70 billion in foreign debt, over-indulgence, over 2 billion in the state-runs of the state development plan, and today -- and I'm telling you -- in other words -- I'm telling you today -- for the AKP's tax growth of the state, over $25 per cent in this country, over $25 per cent. According to this, you decide what semester it's juniorhood, what period it's mastery, you decide, people decide. Mr. Erdoğan says at the opening of the Kadiköy-Cartal subway in Vienna on June 20, 2014, at the opening of the "Kadiköy-Cartal" subway, the word says: "Hani Gazi Mustafa Kemal was very fond of iron nets; they wrote them in the Tenth Year March, where he says: "What did you build with nets? Where did you build them?" You're not knitting, we're knitting. Look, right now, there was a Turkey that couldn't even make its tracks 10 meters. We're now building a 70-metre-long track. They were doing it with rivets, and now we're doing it with the source system. Look at the description, look at the comparison! So even an elementary school student wouldn't compare Turkey to today's Turkey that way 90 years ago, no way. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] On top of that, it's unrealistic. Why? The total number of railways carried out during the period of the 2014 talk was 1,081 km during 12 years of power. However, from 1924 to 1938, the amount of railways made during the Ataturk period -- the amount of railways made with ten metres of rails -- are nearly three times the amount of the AKP for that period. (APPLAUSE) In addition, that poor period, which had not been satisfied with that, that period of ruin, that stormy period, without borrowing the 4,000km of iron in the hands of strangers, without laying down tenders, without attracting supporters, and Ataturk left the Turkish nation with 7,000km of iron at the time of his death. There's the new government! On 29 September 2016, Mr. Erdogan made one of his favorite speeches in the palace, speaking to the chiefs, and someone tried to sell us Lauzan. We gave Lausanne the islands where your voice would be heard. Is this victory? It was ours. Those who sat at that table didn't give us the right to that agreement, and today we're suffering from it because they couldn't. Mr. Erdoğan says. In other words, Mr. Erdogan despises the Treaty of Lauzan, which established Turkey today under the conditions of Turkey, which has been reduced to several provinces in Central Anatolia with the Sevr Agreement. He doesn't know anything but contempt. He doesn't know that the 12 islands were given to the Italians after the Battle of Tripoli on October 18, 1912. He claims that the Treaty of Lausanne was given to the Italians. Meanwhile, according to the Lausanne Agreement he disliked, 18 islands left to Turkey were occupied by Greeks in the period of power. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Mr. Erdogan, at the meeting of the Dianetin, he says: "Our army has survived the Mongol invasion, the Crusades, even though all our letters have been stolen, our civilization has managed to build itself every time. Our letters have been stolen! What does that mean? To compare the Letter Revolution to the Mongol invasion of the time of the Letter Revolution is to compare it to the Crusader invasion. I can say a lot about it, but it's only two minutes away. Just one thing, Mr. Erdogan, the Turkish nation's alphabet is not the Arabic alphabet. That's all I'm saying, that's enough. This year, on November 10th, the Memorial Book was released as an Ottoman officer of Samsun, and the Assembly of Ankara again acted on behalf of the Ottomans." he wrote. A little harder, he built the Republic for the Ottomans." he will say. Mr. President, if you, as you did in the group speech on May 18, 2013, rescued this country from an enemy invasion and sent its president to the man who founded the Republic of Turkey, the 70-year history of Turkey is wasted. If you say so, someone who you carry to parliament will rise, describing the 90-year-old republic as a commercial between six hundred years of empires. And if you do that, then some of them will be inattentive, and some of them will say, "If only the Greek had triumphed, he would not have gone astray." If you criticize the founder of this country and the first part of the republic with false information, our esteemed President, Mr. President of the AKP, the focal points abroad will also be encouraged, not only in the country, but in German television, as we watched the other day, it will make programs accusing Ataturk of genocide and killing people in the Tunceli region. Are you familiar with the Yuan Dynasty, my friends? Yuan Dynasty is the 15th dynasty of China, the 4,000-year-old Chinese Empire. The Yuan Dynasty is not Chinese, but Mongolian. Kublai was founded by the grandson of Genghis.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0064par0624	Let's complete it, Mr. Andican.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0063par0625	From a Chinese perspective, it's an invasive Mongolian dynasty, but the Chinese don't ignore that period in their history, and they put it on a list of dynastys, their students, their children. Look, on the one hand, you're criticizing the founder and the founder, you're comparing, and you're underestimating. Mr. President, if you do this, you won't grow up. Knowing history and especially its own history, knowing well and respecting its own history, are very important for us politicians, friends. I have a belief that a man who doesn't know history may be a politician, but he's not a statesman. If you don't respect your own history, if you can't internalize your own history, if you don't make peace with it, you can't expect others to respect your history, friends.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0064par0628	Please let's finish.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0063par0629	So once again, Mr. President, make peace with the founder of this country, with the founding period of this country, internalize it, don't try to compete, don't compare.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0065par0630	They don't make peace, they're enemies! They're the enemy, the enemy!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0063par0631	Only this way, you can be the real President of the republic when you compare it, when you're trying to exclude it. Otherwise, history will not make you the real President of this country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0066par0634	Mr. President, I have a brief request for my position.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0067par0635	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0066par0638	Mr. President, we're paying attention to the criticism of the speakers here, and our citizens are listening; I want to highlight one thing: some figures have been explained by Mr. Andican -- a person who did himself, the Ministry -- here's how many taxes have been collected, these have been done -- you collect taxes in the budget, and you distribute these taxes again through budget law, you distribute them through investment, through service; that's the logic of the budget, and keep you in power as long as the public is satisfied. Now, two trillion taxes have been collected, and what has been done in return, they don't count. Then you should also discuss investments in return when you count the collected resource.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0067par0640	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0066par0641	Look, when you look at the amount of Turkey's EU-defined debt today, the rate of national income has dropped from 72 per cent to 32 per cent, a country that has reduced its debt rate. You measure the debt by proportioning the income. So falling from 72 to 32 is an important development for Turkey. Second: Look, today Turkey -- reflected in the last NATO meeting -- despite everything -- has given up all the fight in the Eastern Mediterranean to not give up its rights. The issue of 18 islands is very polemic. My advice to him is to sit down and talk to them at his party about what happened, how it happened, what it was, what it was. Let's not forget that there has never been a genocide in Turkey's history, so if you take it from there, sir, if you do this, they'll say that there's genocide in Turkey. We're a country that resists them, we're a fighting force. In Turkey's history, there have been no genocides in the history of Ottomans until now.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0068par0645	Finish it, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0066par0646	We've made this clear, we've made it very clear, but I'd like to point out that we strongly object to the fact that a minister is going to distort the issue by saying, "I'm going to be a member of the ministry." One more thing, Mr. Andican, we're not gonna be taking history lessons from you. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0069par0650	Mr. President, Mr. Andican has made other heavy advances, but they haven't responded. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0070par0711	Dear lawmakers, I will now meet the demands of speakers of the National Movement Party. The first statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Ismail Faruk Aksu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0071par0715	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the budgets of the Turkish Parliament's presidency and the Public Control Agency. I salute our Veteran Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. At the beginning of my speech, I remember the first president of our Parliament, the founder of our state, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, all the heroes of our future struggle, the dead members of our Parliament, our saintly sacrifice, and all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude. Today is December 10th, World Human Rights Day. It is also the day when 39 of our police officers and seven of our seven citizens, who have been taken away from their most basic human right to live, have been martyred in a low and treacherous manner as a result of the bomb attack launched by the separatist terrorist organization PKK in Beşiktaş. Yesterday we had three martyrs. May God have mercy on our martyrs, and my condolences on our nation. In view of some of the talks made under this blessed roof, you would think that these did not happen; PKK, ا and other terrorist organizations do not exist in our country; the Turkish Assembly of the National Assembly has not been bombed, no coup attempt; the babies in the arson have not been massacred, hundreds of martyrs have not been given; our citizens have not lost their lives; everything has started an operation while the roses are rose; Turkey has set aside resources for this; the defence budget has increased. Dear lawmakers, Turkey will make every effort to eliminate threats against its back, to protect sovereignty rights to the end, to ensure peace and security of the nation, which is what it means to be a state. Therefore, while considering economic and social developments in Turkey, the minimum conscience requires that we look at them as well; consider the political and economic operations that Turkey is facing, which are facing. In our opinion, our state's survival, the peace and security of our nation are ahead of everything, and their assurance should be the priority of all of us, no matter the cost, of every Turkish citizen. Dear MPs, 2020 is the 100th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the headquarters of our struggle for salvation and organization. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which was opened as a product of enormous will, was born from the Turkish nation's determination to live fully independent. Under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal (Gazi Mustafa Kemal) on May 19, 1919, the torch burned in Samsun was spread through Amasya, Sivas and Erzurum. The road entered with the declaration of Misakimillii (Masamilii) was also the beginning of the period when the political and legal infrastructure of the Republic of Turkey was prepared by the opening of the Grand National Assembly in Ankara. ▪ National will and national domination are two basic principles that sum up the structure of the Grand National Assembly. Ataturk was also a battle for national domination in order to free the country from occupation and bring it to full independence. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the aim of national will, received the title of Gazi Parliament for running our Istklatli War, and, on July 15, 2016, it earned it for the 2nd time in its decisive stance against the coup attempt by the terrorist organization. Our nation has shown that a July 15th treasonous coup attempt will never be extinguished by resisting terrorist organization attacks on our homeland with the courage of a century ago. As it is known, the Constitutional amendment on 16 April 2017 led to a radical reform in the government system and passed on to the presidential government system. With a clear distinction of forces with the regulation, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has been restored to its original function and qualifications, strengthened in representation and authority. In the making of the law, the Parliament's will was highlighted, the Parliament began legislation on the proposals given by lawmakers, and the principle of national domination has been strengthened. The executives have been authorized to offer the Turkish Grand National Assembly a budget and a final bill of account law only, which is given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly by changing or changing exactly. The law of authority, which allows the execution to be passed in accordance with the law, has been lifted, and it has been decided that it will be nullified in three months' time in the State of Emergency if the KHK is not approved by our Parliament. For the first time, seven members of the Judges and Prosecutors' Council have been elected to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The parliamentary audit functions have been further strengthened through the question, general discussion, parliamentary investigation and the parliamentary investigation, and the requirement for the written question motions to be answered within 15 days. The vote of confidence and generic mechanisms have been removed because the people have been given direct power by the election, the executive Parliament does not come out of it and takes the vote of confidence from the nation itself. The legal infrastructure for political parties to be able to join the election as an alliance has been established and the principle of justice has been strengthened in representation, along with stability in governance. With the changes made, the parliamentary system's continued malfunctions have been terminated, the administration's rule of law has been prevented, the event of the Turkish Grand National Assembly has been increased. Dear lawmakers, some changes have been made in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, following the constitutional amendment, in order to adapt to the presidential government system. However, we are considering the full review of Parliamentary Interior, in order to ensure that an effective, transparent, participatory and quality legalisation process is revealed. In accordance with the spirit of the presidential government system, which provides technical support for the drafting of law proposals, the establishment of infrastructure as part of the implementation of the audit, the focus of the legislation and audit process, the participation of those involved in the law-making process, and the participation of legislatures in the legislation process, are some of the issues that we see and recommend are important in the work of the Civil Charter. An agreement between political parties would undoubtedly be important in implementing the amendment to the Civil Code. We consider that political parties are open for compromise, which is important for an effective legislation. In such efforts, it would be helpful to consider those who remain in line with the findings of the Civil Code labour commissions that have been established in parliament so far. In addition, the administrative capacity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is required to develop in line with this structure in order to ensure that lawmaking and law proposals are active in legislature activities in parallel with increased capacity. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Public Control Agency, established and launched by Law 6328 in 2012 according to Article 74 of the Constitution. By creating an independent and efficient complaint mechanism in the functioning of public services, the institution is tasked with examining, investigating, and making suggestions in the way that governance is based on human rights-based justice, law and rights. Although the activities of the Public Control Agency, which has made recommended decisions, are increasing day by day, the impact area needs to be expanded. While the application rate of ombudsman's advice decisions, which are 70 per cent to the relevant institutions, has increased slightly from the previous year, the purpose of increasing it meaningfully will also be necessary. Still, the continued lack of proper complaints and demands with awareness has led to the failure to process many requests that have been made to the institution, so speedily resolving the lack of publicity and information will also contribute to the desired benefit of the system. As the National Movement Party, we care and follow the healthy functioning of this structure from our history and tradition. With these thoughts, I wish to bless the budgets of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Society of Public Control, with respect to you well-respected members of the General Assembly, in the hope that the national spirit, national will, national domination and national unity will contribute to the strengthening of their understanding of unity.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0072par0729	Our Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Taytak. Here you go, Mr. Taytak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0073par0733	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the People's Control Agency. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the Public Control Agency is an institution tasked with reviewing, investigating, and recommending the administration's actions and actions on the functioning of the administration, in the sense of justice based on human rights, in accordance with legal and rights. If we look at the statistics of the Public Control Agency, the Foundation has filed a total of 76,715 complaints from 2013 to today. 99% of these complaints have been concluded. The institution contributes to improving the quality of the administration's service, setting up good management principles, improving human rights, establishing the rule of law, spreading the rights culture; transparent, accountable, human-focused administration. For this, the important thing is that right-seeking culture is widespread. First of all, many of our citizens seem to be unaware of their duties and duties. According to the data we received, the number of applications from my hometown of Afyonkarahisar to the Public Control Agency in 2019 was five hundred percent. The institution must explain its duties and powers to every part of our country. I think it would be appropriate for some activities, such as public spotlights. The institution can oversee all areas except the presidency, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the Turkish Armed Forces and the judiciary. As the National Movement Party, we are the first political party to express that we value public control and that the Society for Public Control should be established years ago. All institutions must act according to the facts that have been established; they must be treated according to the conditions of the period, and they must take their precautions accordingly. The world was quickly transformed by what technology brought. Because of the technology's resources, people become antisocial individuals. Almost face-to-face communication is over, replaced by a virtual medium. It causes a person who is a social being to become lonely and depressed. In this sense, society is troubled; suicides have increased, the use of depression drugs has increased, the mood of enough people to use cyanide to slaughter their families has deteriorated. Women's murders, domestic murders, child abusers, animal slaughter images begin to spread after taking part in visual media, social media. We have a new event every week, and it happens in different places in the same way. The statements of psychopaths and murderers are all over the papers. Unknown speakers, whose qualifications and services he serves on television, try to set the agenda of society for days in debate programmes. Public opinion is systematically poisoned, especially with social media and television programs. Many social media phenomena encourage young people to make easy money. Like family, respect for the elder, love for the small, neighborhood, kinship, country, nation, flag, religious and national holidays, all our values are being emptied out of us. Family competitions published in competition programmes, and family relations, respect, and literature are completely undermining the screen. The Public Control Agency should intervene not only in the administration but in all matters concerned with the public and the public, but in a number of matters that I count and I can't count due to time. As the National Movement Party, our President, the State Gardener Sir, is a very serious step in this matter. One of the main reasons why our Vice President, Deniz Depboyli Ma'am, presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on March 2, 2018 is to prevent social problems. This proposal of the law must be carried out at once. Both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Public Control Agency must find a solution to these problems. Our goal is not to wrong the mental health of the Turkish nation, but to prepare future generations for the conditions of the period. In addition, as the National Movement Party, under the direction of our leader, Mr. State Garden, our Vice President, Mevlüt Karakaya, there is a Law Proposal for Public Investigations and Conspiracy. Public and political institutions are completely unguarded against mistakes and deceptions made by research companies. Some poll companies try to impose their political views on citizens, offer the whisper in their ears, manipulate public opinion. I showed a political party at 20 percent, and it owes me its success. But that party didn't even make it to the 10% threshold. They're on TV shows and they're lying to the Turkish nation. It doesn't matter to us whose side they're on. The nationalist movement party only focuses on the facts. It causes insecurity in society. This proposal of the law must be carried out as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that there are a great deal of application fees for PSD exams for work and university. The SNSM tests are an extension of the right to education and it is a constitutional right to ensure the equality of opportunity among students. The recent recommendation made by the Public Control Agency on the matter must be followed. The nationalist movement party is to keep the people alive so that the state can live. Our wise Turkish leader, as our President-General stated, first my country and nation, then my party and myself. In its political struggle over 50 years, the National Movement Party has been a political party producing permanent projects on almost everything that concerns our country and the Turkish people. The National Movement Party has proposed and will continue to offer solutions to the welfare of our nation, the settlement of social peace, the establishment of justice in all areas, the guarantee of the rule of law and the removal of victims. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the 2020 budget would be a blessing to our government and our nation, and I salute the General Assembly and the Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0074par0746	In turn, it belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Feti Yıldız. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 14 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0075par0749	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party on the budgets of the Constitutional Court and the Court. I salute you all on this occasion. As written in Article 2 of the Constitution, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. The state of law is a state that respects human rights, considers itself bound by law, is open to judicial control. The basis of the Constitutional judiciary is the principle of the rule of the constitution. The Constitution is at the top of the norms pyramid and is the whole binding rule. The law shall not be contrary to the Constitution. The decree in the form of the Constitution shall represent the superiority of the Constitution. The Constitution has two basic functions: first, to secure the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual; second, and most importantly, to draw the limits of the authority and power of the state. The security of these two principles is combined with the principle of the rule of the constitution, and the constitutional judiciary has emerged. The establishment and spread of constitutional courts are largely after World War II because there have been intense rights violations during the war. But our Constitutional Court's founding adventure is different. There's no need to explain it here. It is an institution that entered the Constitution of 61 after the May 27 coup. The Constitutional Court's amendments to the Constitutional Court and its duties have been changed over time, its tasks expanded, its last amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, No. 6771 have been finalised. According to this, the Constitutional Court has its main duties: to examine the shape of the constitutional amendments; to supervise whether the law, the presidential decree and the Parliament's Institution again are contrary to the Constitutional Court; to decide whether political parties are in violation of the Constitutional Court; to review individual applications due to right violations; to consider the High Court's duties -- because of the crimes of those mentioned in the Constitution -- and to make final decisions on the removal of the immunity of the law. Mr. President, Congressmans, as you know, the Supreme Court's trial is a criminal trial, which is the Articles of the Criminal Code and the Law of Punishment and its requirements are enforced. However, when we look at the professions and educational situation of members in the Constitutional Court, it is more of a criminal trial, it would be more accurate and appropriate for us to give the Supreme Court's authority to the General Assembly. The Constitutional amendment in 2010 gave our legal system the right to individual application -- which began to apply on 23 September 2012 -- a new start in the judiciary. In this new era, a right-axis approach based on basic rights and freedoms has come forward. Justice, law-abiding decisions, can be established by well-trained judges. For this, it is very important for judges to train and train in the field. Although our Ministry has trained nearly 4,000 judges in vocational training from 2018-2019, some of whom have been sent abroad to grow in foreign languages and professions. This is a good development. The individual application is viewed as a final and effective path by our people. Of course, social and political events eventually constitute the issue of the judiciary. Hans Kelsen, known as the founder of the European Court of Human Rights, also called the contrast between the judiciary and political power. In fact, the constitutional courts, by their decisions, sometimes seem to replace themselves with legislation, so they seem to turn themselves into lawmakers. Of course, that is not a matter for the High Assembly and for us to accept. The Constitutional Court can only perform its duties by the Constitution and by law. Again, there are frequent appeals on whether the cancellations are justified or not, and there are appeals on rights violations. Since individual applications are now considered by our nation as the last authority, they are considered the upper appeal path after almost all the laws have been exhausted. Because of the numerical majority and increasing number of applications, it becomes inextricable in terms of increased workloads and work density. If the applications continue with this intensity, the Constitutional Court, as I have just stated, will turn into a superior appeal court, which is not a desirable situation. Now, when we look at the proportions of applications, there's a lot of applications about not being judged on reasonable time. This is 61 percent of the application. Again, the right to a fair trial and the application for unjust decisions are around 24-25 per cent. If we look at these rates, the right violations are about 4 to 5 percent. This, to us, is very low. The courts, of course, speak to their verdicts, or the authorities of the Supreme Court are in no position to come out here and defend themselves. I would like to remind you of a decision or two in the last July -- in the last 24th, in the 26th, in the 26th of July. One decision is the verdict on July 24th, resolution 2019/65. An appeal has been filed to the Constitutional Court in the application of the Republican People's Party's Mr. Group Vice Presidents and 114 MPs. The subject of this application is to conduct a security investigation and an archived record search before they can become government officials. The Republican People's Party has submitted an appeal to the opinion that this will be carried out by law, in view of the lack of legal regulation for the security investigation. It may be justified from its own point of view, but now, when we examine the verdict, it will be seen that this is not the case at all. What do they object to? What are you looking for in a security investigation? Whether their identity information is correct or false, it is the Police Department and the National Intelligence Agency that is responsible for this investigation. There is a defence in the motion to abort, which is unclear to the authorities, and there is a reason, which is not true, and it is very clear. Again, the investigation into terrorist organizations, whether or not they are connected to terrorist organizations, whether they have a search record or a barrier, whether they have committed a crime against the laws of Ataturk and revolution, and finally, there will be a search for whether they have a love of alcohol, gambling, or money to obstruct their profession, whether they have any interest in money or not. Dear friends, how did you object to this, to these investigations? I assume you'll be able to answer that. Now, the 129th Article of the Constitution is very clear, and the civil servants are bound by the Constitution, the law and the state. It is not worthy of the Republican People's Party or any member of parliament to ask for such loyalty to be broken. But this application was applied, and eventually, as you requested, it was decided to be cancelled. Again, I'd like to mention something else. And the reason for the cancellation is wrong, as far as we're concerned. Because the issues that we count are clearly and clearly established in Law 6698 and Law 4045, so the principle of legality is not violated. The reason is that the Constitution violates the 13th and 20th Articles of the Constitution, which is false. Members of parliament, again two days after this decision, we will not be a party to this crime, which is known as the declaration of peace, which we believe is written by some academics and professors, at the call of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Because of this declaration, 784 professors have filed a civil suit against the officer, and the sentence has been imposed on 191. However, most of them have been suspended, except for 35. They have applied to the Constitutional Court through an individual application, which the Constitution has given them -- of course, they have used a right. The contents of the declaration are clear; the Turkish state's pit operations have slandered the Turkish nation and all its peoples for slaughter, exile, and slaughter. At the end of the vote, 8/8 of the Constitutional Court voted there were 8 judges/rights violations, but the decision was issued because the President of the Constitutional Court voted in violation of the rights, and the decision was granted to those who insulted our state, our nation, close to 790/power, our military, our police, martyrs, and those who were killed, that there was a way of retribution of 9.150 lira in damages. We have to stick to the subject when we talk about something here. And I'm out of time, and there's actually so much to tell. So the corruption caused by the terrorist organization in the judiciary has been discharged from the profession of more than 3,900. However, their decisions are still in place, execution and execution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We were going to tell you this, but time's up. Mr. President, I'd like to wrap this up in a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0076par0768	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0075par0769	According to us, there are two others missing in the fight against ▪ One, the decisions made by the judges must be reconsidered. Two and most importantly, an investigation has been launched into all police, police, guard, tea shop, soup kitchens, and there has been a follow-up, but no politician has ever been investigated. Of course, there are traitors in our politics who belong to every institution, which must be cleaned up. That's where I end my words. As we salute you all, I hope our budget will be good for our nation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0077par0773	Mr. Altay, you've made a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0078par0775	Thank you, Mr. President. The precious orator who just spoke on the stand questioned our application based on an application to the Constitutional Court. He may, may be, may be critical, but he has taunted the Republican People's Party with an attitude and a state of mind that violates the establishment of public order. I demand word, it could be my place, it could be there. It's more profitable here, it's longer here, it's shorter there; it's yours.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0077par0777	Here you go. I promise you, Mr. Altay, from the bench for two minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0079par0780	Didn't you do the application?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0080par0781	We did it, we'd do it again, Congressman.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0079par0782	That's what I told him.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0081par0783	Mr. Star, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0080par0786	Mr. Star, we are trying to obey the Constitution, which you see in my hand, which is yours. You like it, you don't like it, it ties you up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0079par0787	Of course, of course.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0080par0788	I don't like it. The approach is the approach of Recep Erdogan; what he wants is an approach that likes the decision that suits him and questions the decision that doesn't suit him. But I don't suppose you've seen the canceled text, as a lawyer...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0079par0789	Here, look here.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0080par0790	You must have it now, but you haven't seen the soul, Congressman, you haven't seen the soul, you haven't seen the essence of that text. For once, as a lawyer, if I think the Constitutional Court is to be criticized, I would expect you to say, "Yes, the Constitutional Court has based this cancellation on 13, 20, and 128, but the Constitutional Court has forgotten the 70th article. If I were in your place, I would read 70. Article 70 of the Constitution states that every Turk has the right to enter public service. No distinction can be observed in the service except the qualities of the task. Let alone 13, 20, and 128, which is the reason for the cancellation. I think there's something missing from the Constitutional Court for not seeing the 70th Amendment of the Constitution. Congressman, I'm a victim of a security investigation. I finished Marine Training in 1985, I was not appointed until 1990. And that's when the teacher's qualifying exam came out, and I took that test, and I didn't get assigned. In fact, the following year, I went in again in case it went unnoticed. In one case, I was not appointed to Van Province, in another, in the province of Tripoli, even though I had a decree. Do you know what his motive was?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0079par0792	I don't know.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0080par0793	I'm not being condescending.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0082par0795	Mr. Altay, I'll add one minute, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0080par0796	It's a report from a sergeant major, a petty officer. I then took office with a judicial decision, first by administrative court order, then by the State Department's appeal, and then by the decision, I began in 1990. Who's gonna pay for my five years? No doubt, people like you won't. But the head that really divides Turkey is the head that sees everyone as a potential terrorist. The PKK's terrorist organization can't afford to divide Turkey, but people like you have enough heads to divide Turkey 100 times.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0083par0798	Get out of here!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0080par0799	Woe to you, and woe to you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0084par0801	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0085par0802	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment... Congressmans, one moment, Mr. Group Vice President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0086par0804	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0085par0805	Mr. Star, Mr. Group Vice President has received your word, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0087par0806	You can get up and say something, and you won't insult me.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0088par0807	Is that an insult?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0085par0809	Mr. Taytak...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0088par0810	The head, the head. The head that thinks everyone's a terrorist!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0085par0811	Mr. Altay, just a moment... Dear friends, one moment... please, Mr. Taytak, let's sit down.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0089par0813	Mr. President, under normal circumstances...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0085par0814	Look, a Group Vice President has taken his word, my dear friends, please. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0090par0816	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President's speech on the stand is a public nuisance, and I'd like to speak of the bench.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0085par0817	Here you go. I promise you in two minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0090par0821	Mr. President, Mr. Feti Yıldız, speaking in budget talks on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, has made an assessment at the Constitutional Court at the point where the Republican People's Party's Security investigations in particular are unfair and illegal. This assessment is a legal assessment. Besides, on the other hand, now that we've got a question of ifrat and limbo, is there any joy in security investigations? The injury you experienced personally was an incident in the circumstances following the September 12, 1980 coup.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0091par0822	That's the blow from July 20th.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0090par0823	It's your assessment of July 20th, your assessment of the controlled blow. You were in this House when bombs began to touch the roofs of this House. Although you are seeing these facts, 251 martyrs, 2,190 wounded, although still calling this coup a controlled coup, still ignoring it and considering July 20th as the date of the actual coup is the greatest evil in this nation, this nation, this country, this country. The conditions after July 15 are not the same as the conditions after September 12th.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0092par0826	Who gave them those planes? Who gave them those bombs?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0090par0827	We're talking about the activity of a very sneaky terrorist organization, a terrorist organization in Turkey, aimed at infiltrating all of the state's institutions and organizations, and when we evaluate the activities of those still sleeping crypto cells at the point of placement in a number of states...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0093par0829	Dear friends, please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0092par0830	Let him answer...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0093par0831	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0094par0832	...of course there's some truth to the security investigation here, there's health. At this point, no one should be blindfolded as in the past.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0093par0834	Mr. Nightingale, one minute longer. Just pick it up in a minute, and then I won't. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0094par0836	What we're complaining about is that this traitorous terrorist organization has infiltrated the state's institutions and organizations, haven't we? Then why does it bother the Republican People's Party that those who are related to them, who are related to them, who are related to them, are known by state institutions in the process of hiring them? Is that a thing?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0095par0838	It's not legal, it's legal!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0094par0839	But here's the thing: we never, ever accept the accusation you guys made in a terrorist sighting. We don't consider anyone to be a terrorist after all, a traitor or a traitor to this country, but those who publicly betray this country, Ergenekon, with his publications in the sledgehammer processes...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0095par0840	Who did he do it with?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0094par0841	...we will never embrace the likes of Ahmet Altan, who defiled Turkey, after he has been released from prison. You're the ones who did this. (MHP and AK PARTY) There, under the circumstances, the victim of those operations, Lieutenant Çelebi.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0096par0843	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0094par0844	...that Mr. Kilicdaroglu is surrounded by such men as Ahmet Altan, who are not lawful with him, is what we object to. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0097par0847	Mr. President, in a word to Mr. Group Vice President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0098par0848	You weren't coming to the Ergenekon hearings. We defended your congressman, we took over, we took over.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0099par0850	Dear friends, please be quiet. Dear Tanal... friends, let's be calm, please. Look, the Deputy Directors of the Group want a word.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0100par0853	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0099par0854	Mr. Star, this is the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0100par0855	I'll say a sentence, sir, a sentence.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0099par0856	No, look, let's give the Deputy Directors of the Group a right to their party's priority. He spoke for you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0100par0857	Mr. President, Mr. Group is part of the Constitution, which I will remind the Vice President of. The first part of the Constitution is included in the Constitution, where it is written: "No action can be protected against the indivisible integrity of Turkish national interests, Turkish existence, state and country." No matter how much they protect it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0099par0859	Well, it's on the record. Thank you. Now, let's sit down, let's calm down, dear friends, let's calm down. The Deputy Directors of the Group express their opinion on behalf of your parties. Mr. Altay, please. Please, let's wrap this up, but...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0101par0867	No, no, I don't mean to start an argument. I don't question anyone's patriotism. Mr. Star is accusing us of supporting terrorism, and none of our friends are standing up from here like the MHP Group did. I say, Mr. Star, the PKK doesn't divide Turkey, but here, this splits the head, you divide the head. Anyone who backs up terror...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0102par0869	Do you support terrorism? Is there a statement?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0101par0870	Why don't you just talk to him? You're the Group President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0102par0871	Do you have a statement?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0101par0872	Where's the statement? Yeah, open it, look at the transcripts. Open up, look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0102par0873	Let's look together.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0101par0874	Let's look in the back. He puts our position as a supporter of terrorism.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0102par0876	Okay, we'll look at the transcripts together.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0103par0877	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0101par0878	You need to call it a stop first, let me tell you that. Secondly, the Republican People's Party will have no problem with the fact that the coupgers, the coupgers, the people involved, the people involved, the people involved, the people not being hired to the state. The Supreme Court is canceling the security investigation because of this cancellation. Why is there a security investigation? It's not called off, it's vague, it's vague.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0103par0881	Mr. Altay, complete, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0101par0882	And what I'm saying is that we have this Constitution -- I've said it there -- we like it, we don't like it, it connects us. As a lawyer, the Constitutional Court made a decision to cancel the application for the security investigation, which would be useful to terrorists. I find his speech, which creates perception, wrong. I said that, and I stand by what I said.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0104par0884	I don't suppose you'd mind our criticism? I suppose you could criticize the verdict.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0103par0885	One moment, my dear friends, Mr. Nightingale, one moment. So now the parties are clear on the subject.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0105par0887	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0103par0888	Mr. Mush, you have a promise to make. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0105par0890	Mr. President, we have a brief request for our position.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0103par0891	Go ahead, but let's give our other friends a chance to talk.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0105par0893	Mr. President, in his speech to Mr. Altay, sir will not accept that it is in his best interest and accept that it is in his best interest. I like the Constitution, I don't like it. This is the Erdogan approach. I must express to Mr. Altay, if Mr. Altay listens: The Constitution can be criticised, you can criticize the text of the Constitution, you can criticize the Constitutional Court's decision which we criticize. It's not that many of the members of their own group, but a few weeks ago, they knocked over the Constitutional text. It may be, but it's one thing to criticize the Constitutional Court; it's another to criticize the Constitutional Court's decision; it's one thing to abide by the Constitutional Court's decision. We've been critical so far, but we've followed every decision made by the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0106par0894	It didn't fit. He didn't comply with the terms of compensation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0107par0895	I don't respect him either. He said, "I don't respect you."
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0105par0896	So you have to separate them. Who wrote the Constitution? Politicians write the Constitution. Who's voting? The MPs, the General Assembly, approve of the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey. It's one thing to criticize the text, one thing to criticize the decisions, one thing to follow them. You have to tell these two apart. I'd like to remind the experienced Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0108par0897	Okay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0109par0898	Mr. President, it's very short, in terms of the reports...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0108par0899	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0109par0901	Plus, we're a party that's done this, and the AK PARTY knows that, in fact, the MHP knows that we are also an alternative party that has proposed to the AK PARTI that, in the event of this cancellation, must have certain defensive reflexes of the state. I mean, it's not possible to get anything out of here while you're at it, scratch this place and frame the Republican People's Party. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0108par0903	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0110par0904	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0108par0905	Mr. Survivor, you've had your word too. Here, let's hear it for you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0110par0907	Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words to the MHP speaker about peace academics.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0108par0908	State it for a minute, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0110par0911	Thank you, Mr. President. Peace academics are academics who have spent a long time training, years training, perhaps training the children of lawmakers who are here. They acted out of a public sensibilities, demanded peace, demanded peace, and signed a declaration. They were tried, eventually went to the Supreme Court, and now they're acquitted. What MHP and AKP are supposed to do -- Mr. Mush says, can be criticized, correct -- decisions can be criticised, but in the end, we don't recognize decisions, it doesn't concern us. They need to know that. The speaker says that what peace academics do is treason against the state and the nation. Peace academics are not traitors, they have not betrayed this state and the nation, they have criticised the government's mind, which cannot govern this state. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0111par0915	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0112par0916	Please, Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0111par0917	Mr. President, excuse me. It's too short, sir, to report.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0112par0918	To get him on the record. Let's cut to the chase. Point taken. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0111par0920	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Star is on the stand to say that we are deeply upset by this declaration, that we are strongly denying an explanation against a state that is making a measure against the activities of a terrorist organization in Turkey that makes cities an arsenal. This is our very natural right. At this point, the investigations, the arrests, the trials are obvious. This is not the right approach to these trials, just following the Constitutional Court's decision on the evaluations made by the law in Turkey. If this is going to be a integrity in Turkey, then I consider it the duty of Mr. Deputy President and his party to respect and respect other decisions made by these courts.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0112par0922	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0113par0923	Mr. President, Mr. Survivan has stated that these so-called academics have signed...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0114par0924	▪ The so-called academics?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0115par0925	Who the hell is this supposed to be?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0113par0926	I'm just saying, say something else.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0115par0927	What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0116par0928	What's it to you? What do you care what he says?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0117par0929	The so-called politician!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0118par0930	...refers to the government's inability to govern. So there's a criticism of our group, the AK PARTY government at that time, and there's more to it than criticism. I'd like to take advantage of our position, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0119par0931	Come in, Mr. Müsh, but let's wrap this up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0118par0933	Mr. President, our problem... is that the parties, the who, the who, the intellectual zigzag, everyone, the community knows it very well. But no other political party can rule against us, and we object to the verdict. We think of them as so-called academics; that's one. Secondly, think of any Western state, no matter which one you think, think of one of the European states that is the cradle of democracy, their cities are surrounded, their holes are dug, their citizens are taken hostage, the walls of buildings have been breached, they're going inside...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0120par0935	Who saw it?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0118par0936	They're using people as human shields, and the legitimate power of the state, the law enforcement, they're not going to interfere, they're going to watch this?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0121par0937	He's already seen it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0118par0938	When he intervenes in this, when he does what he has to do about it -- the law enforcement from the Constitution, the legal defense force, the government's ability to protect the life and property of the citizen there -- the so-called academics will come out and criticize the terrorist organization who did it, and then the state's legitimate defence force -- it was a peace declaration from here, people. It will be called peace people.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0122par0939	Ibrahim Kaboglu is also a so-called academic?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0118par0940	If they were peacemakers, before the government, before the government's operation, they'd have had a go at the terrorists there. So for us, these people are supposed to be, they're not.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0123par0943	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0124par0944	Yeah, it's right here. How come you don't have it?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0125par0945	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0123par0946	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0126par0947	Is Mr. Kaboglu in or is he a member of the House?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0123par0948	One moment, my dear friends, one moment...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0127par0949	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0128par0950	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0123par0951	One second... I promise you, let's sit down, guys, I see movement in the back rows, let's sit down.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0129par0952	We need to be careful, he was in the same situation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0123par0953	Mr. Aydoğan, please... Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0130par0955	If you're advocating, you should go out and say: "We're defending it." There's no sound from him.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0131par0956	Kaboğlu defends himself, I will not defend him.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0123par0957	Mr. Aydoğan, just a second... I gave my word to Mr. Survivan.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0130par0958	You go ahead, defend yourself.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0123par0959	Mr. Mush... Guys, please, let's wrap this up; look, the other speakers are waiting. Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0132par0963	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP must know: Surely, the day will come, the day will come, when the funeral of the Taybet mother will be left on the ground for days, when the funeral of Cemile will be kept in the refrigerators, when all the citizens will fall on their heads, and when they will kill people in the basements. The day will come...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0133par0965	You'll pay for it, you! You're gonna give it to me! You're gonna pay for that!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0132par0966	In international and national courts, the AKP cannot escape, it has committed crimes against humanity. I have to say, I have to hand it to you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0133par0967	You did it, you! You committed that crime!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0134par0968	Mr. Eronat, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0133par0969	They committed that crime.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0135par0970	At the same time...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0133par0971	They committed that crime.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0136par0972	Mr. Eronat, please, look, you have the Deputy Director of the Group. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0135par0973	At the same time, we say for peace academics that you declare half of Turkey a terrorist. Give it up. They have expressed an opinion, they have criticised your state-run situation; they have not betrayed the Turkish nation, the people of Turkey. I'm saying you don't have to pull this around.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0137par0974	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0136par0975	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0137par0977	Thank you. I wish... when Mr. Mehmet Mush said this sentence, I had a feeling that Mr. Mush said: "Was the government going to watch the terrorists in the ditch and in the pits?" Didn't you, Mr. Mush?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0138par0979	Will the government be watching?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0137par0980	Would the state watch them? You said, "Mr. Mush, I wish you wouldn't have given them instructions to your governors, to your governors, to dig these trenches, to dig these holes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0139par0982	You don't know how to defend yourself anymore! ENGIN ALTAY (Istanbul) - I believe, knowingly, when these ditchs are being dug, while these tunnels are being built, the governor of the state, the governor of the state, the governor of the state, the governor of the state, the governor of the state, the governor of the district and county police chiefs have worked as head of the construction site, and those pits have as much responsibility as terrorist organizations have, they have knowledge, they have knowledge, they have responsibility. For him, at that time, the National Movement Party was doing very violent, very high-frequency criticisms against the AK PARTY. Now, is the AK PARTY innocent? The AK PARTY has been granted forgiveness, but peace academics are supposed to. It is not possible for us to accept it. There is freedom of thought in Turkey, because of its opinion -- a universal law norm, such as the law norm of innocence -- that no one who follows claims to be a terrorist, has the right to label, no, no; there is no, no; there is no audience; there is no audience; there is no judgment. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let us also say about the Constitutional Court: We have criticised some of the Constitutional Court's decisions, and everyone has the right to criticize them, but we have never said that I respect or disobey the Constitutional Court's decision. That's the President. If we're going to discuss a moral, ethical situation about questioning judicial decisions, I don't obey the decision first, and I don't respect it. If we conduct this discussion through Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we'll be doing a better job. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0140par0988	Mr. President, he's been picking on us again...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0141par0989	Yeah, don't tease...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0142par0990	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0140par0991	Mr. Altay can't stop himself today.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0141par0992	Wait a minute... what do you mean? What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0142par0993	Mr. Mush, please... Dear lawmakers, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, it's important to protect kindness, I beg you, everyone.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0143par0995	I'm sure of it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0144par0996	I want to talk about picking on you, in advance.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0142par0997	Look, we're conducting an important meeting, and we've got a lot of speakers, but it's the wrong way to go on arguing one after another. Now, I don't want to interrupt, but I'm also waiting for you experienced Group Vice Presidents to end the discussion at some point. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0145par1000	Mr. President, you're going to make allegations you've made here. The governors have been instructed, the governors have been instructed; there will be no action here!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0146par1002	Yeah, that's exactly what happened.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0147par1003	You dealt guns with trucks.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0148par1004	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0149par1005	Mr. Altay, take these instructions, take these instructions, and file a criminal complaint against the Attorney General of the Republic. Why don't you do that? Why don't you do that?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0150par1006	Which prosecutor?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0151par1007	You've been handing out the trucks and the AKs. You dealt guns with trucks.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0149par1008	The second issue, Mr. Altay, is that while we were interfering, your president was referring to them as friends there. Friends........ we don't understand what that is. Another is that you insisted on declaring half the nation a terrorist. Yeah, we didn't say that, it can't happen. We say that they're trying to force people to label it, so stop it, guys. The terrorist organizations are specific, they're defined, they're drawn by the law, but when you don't work for them, they declare half the population terrorists. What statement, what statement, what statement, where did we say that?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0152par1011	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0153par1012	There's no case, there's no trial. 70%...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0149par1013	But let me tell you, they're talking as they please. Right, Turkey has a fight against terrorism; the PKK is one of them, the DHKP-C is one of them, is one of them.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0153par1014	The AKP is fighting against the citizen.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0149par1015	There are others in the law, which are declared according to our relevant laws. Turkey has a struggle with this, but if you try to take it away from the organisations, you can't create a legitimate space and a basis for yourself, you'll give up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0154par1016	Finish it, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0149par1017	Everyone knows that we will fight against those who support them in the presence of terrorist organizations...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0155par1018	Stop smearing the opposition, Mr. Mush! Do not defame the opposition.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0149par1019	We're not going to give up here, we're not going to give up; it's our constitutional responsibility, are we going to fight ourselves?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0156par1021	Mr. Altay, I have a favor to ask you, please let's end this without any further discussion, or I'll have to take a break, dear friends.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0157par1022	Why do you bother with the word terrorist, are you a terrorist? Why are you defending me?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0156par1023	Mr. Eronat, please... Dear friends, let's be calm, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0158par1026	Now, in politics, there are gas-fren-debriage -- now there are cars with no clutch -- but you need them, Mr. Mehmet Mush. Forgetting the brake pedal is a lot of fun for you. Look, everybody listen, please, I'm asking you. Now, President Erdogan said that during the solution process, they had instructed the governors not to press. He said that they had been abused by the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0159par1028	Did we do it badly? We did good!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0158par1029	Yeah, yeah, he did good, he did good! He did very well!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0160par1030	Mr. Eronat...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0159par1031	We did good, I can defend it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0158par1032	Mr. Eronat, I understand your pain...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0159par1033	No, it's not about the pain! It's not about the pain!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0158par1034	...tell me about your pain on this stand, and we'll cry with you, but please don't talk to everyone from where you're standing.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0159par1035	I don't care!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0161par1036	Mr. Altay, I will intervene with Mr. Eronat...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0158par1037	I understand your pain, get on the stand, and I'll cry with you, but it's a shame!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0159par1038	I don't blame you, you do!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0162par1039	Don't talk to the lady like that...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0163par1040	Mr. Eronat, Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0164par1041	Let go of me! Congressman, first of all!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0162par1042	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0163par1043	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0164par1044	I'm telling you, I understand your pain! How dare you abuse me! This is woman abuse!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0163par1045	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0164par1046	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0165par1047	Mr. President, he's screaming a lot. Don't shout so loud.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0166par1049	Mr. Altay, just a moment...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0167par1050	Now, in order to defend something, you don't have to make fun of people's minds. I'm talking 2014, 2014. Security forces have requested 290 operations and interventions in 2014. Mr. Erdoğan has rejected 290 of the request; he has allowed three operations in Şırnak, three in Hakkari, and two in Tunceli. I've said a lot of times, and I'm not looking to get anything out of here. He's got ditch-and-trick politics, ditch-to-trash terror, both of them. It's not just pit and ditch terror.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0166par1053	Complete, Mr. Altay, let's continue the speeches.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0167par1054	In Turkey, there was both trench-total terror at that time and ditch-total politics. You won't find a CHP member who says don't fight terror effectively. But we've been saying from the beginning that we can never tolerate civilian casualties. Let's just say we're not seeing the right head, the right head, the healthy head that says, "What happens if a few civilians die in the area because the terrorist organization is dense?"
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0166par1056	Okay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0168par1057	Mr. President, I'll tell you this:
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0167par1058	Give me a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0166par1059	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0169par1060	Mr. President, I'd like to say two words.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0166par1061	Mr. Eronat, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0169par1062	Well, that's a bit of a tease, isn't it?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0166par1063	Mr. Eronat, please... look, the Deputy Directors of the Group are demanding a word. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0170par1065	Mr. President, even today, hundreds of operations are being conducted, aren't they?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0166par1066	For the record, sir? Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0170par1068	Armed Forces, Gendarme, Coast Guard, they're operating to fulfill the laws defined in the country's peace and prosperity, they're operating in the mountains, in the hills, in the country, in different areas of cities to protect the citizens' lives and property safety. He's getting a government clearance to operate on every operation? The relevant chiefs are there, given relevant permissions.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0171par1069	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0170par1070	Mr. Altay, that's all you need to know.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0171par1071	Fear God, Mehmet Mush, fear God. Come on, you're not ashamed of us.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0172par1072	Well, thank you, Mr. Group Vice Presidents.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0173par1073	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0174par1074	Mr. President, there's been bullying Kaboglu.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0175par1075	There's bullying, Mr. President. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0176par1136	Dear friends, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I promise Mr. Ahmet Erbaş, our Kütahya MP. Here you are, Mr. Erbast. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes, Mr. Private.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0177par1140	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the National Movement Party on the budget of Radio and Television. I salute the Veteran Assembly. After the presidency passed into the government system, the organisation structure of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism changed; however, it has become an important ministry in public diplomacy, not only in tourism and culture but also in the field of public diplomacy, along with the president of TİKA, the President of Turkish and Relative Community abroad, the General Directorate of the Foundations and the Institute of Yunus Emre. The ministry is in a very important position in both domestic and international activities. According to World Tourism Organization data, 37.1 million tourists visited our country between January and June last year, and in the same period of 2019, the number reached 41 million,600,000; our goal is 50 million. We are the 6th largest tourist attraction in the world, the 14th largest tourist revenue in the world. Our goal here is to get into the top six. It's very important to be nationalized in tourism. Tourism is the most important force to pass on our culture to future generations and to tell ourselves to other countries, to other cultures. In the formation of museum culture, our young need to recognize not only the sea, the sand, the solar trio, but also culture tourism, urban tourism. I also want to thank our Minister of Culture and Tourism for not giving any increase to the Museum Kartί, which Turkish citizens are taking advantage of. The National Palaces are also included in the Museum Card. These are very important for national culture. Besides, the rise of archaeological excavations to 12 months has been an admirable arrangement. It's very important that the digs are nationalized and done by our own universities. We need to increase winter tourism, urban tourism, health tourism and gastronomy tourism. Minister, I have a proposition for you from here. Everything was privatized in Kütahya, however many facilities were built for the Republic of Turkey from 1923 to 2004, most of them were privatized. I'm not arguing right and wrong here. Kütahya wants to run a greenhouse. Kütahya wants to deal with industry. Kütahya wants to grow in the field of tourism because Aizanoi Ancient City, which is considered the world's first stock market, in its great nature is Mount Murat, Dumlupınar, the most important front of the Battle of Salvation, Domanic, the Great Mosque, the Shaphere Bigseyfollah Cam, and our warm water, all of our healing thermal spas are in Kütahya. We want to study health tourism. Our 220-bed physical treatment hospital in the tourist zone, Yoncalı, has been replaced by an unknown hand as a 100-bed hospital, and now the number of staff has been reduced. Don't just think of this as a hospital. There are hotels and hotels that operate in tourism in Yoncalı, a tourist area in our province. The most important part of this is that hotels refer to it as a reference during sales and marketing. We have hot water in almost all our counties. I'm speaking to Mr. Minister of Tourism, and I'm proposing that on December 3rd, we all spoke and published messages because of the World's Day of the disabled. In all hotels, to get a license, there must be rooms that serve disabled persons, but almost all of them are symbolic. There's no hotel that's just built for them. Come, let's build an app hotel for the disabled only for Kütahya, whose thermal water is gushing from all over it. At the same time, let this be the internship center, the first time in Turkey. Another suggestion is, let's build a taste center that matches the gastronomic fabric of each city, made by your Ministry. This must be done for all our cities. If we introduce raw pies in Eskişehir, skiing in Afyon, skiing in Burma, doves in İzmir, kütahya, rhubarbs in Kütahya, dumplings and cranberry tarhana in Eskişehir, displaying all the products, food culture, co-existing with municipalities, making it necessary for the municipality to open gastronomy sites with food and all the cultures in our cities. We sing everywhere, and the city of the foundation and salvation is Kütahya. Let's build a museum of salvation and founding in our city. How can we guide the future if we do not learn from our history? Mr. President, I'd like to make an assessment of the esteemed MPs, the RTÜK. Under the constitution, the RTÜK was established in 1994 to organise and supervise radio and television activities, with its structure, Law 6112. The Supreme Council, elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has administrative and financial autonomy and still serves with 676 personnel. In total, we have 1,780 radio and television broadcasts in our country. License fees have been collected in equal installments in six months, with a change in Article 42 of Law 6112, thus a significant decline in Oversight revenues for ten years. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, RTÜK, are also struggling heavily with broadcasts against Turkey with support from most international terrorist organizations. These publications have drawn intense attention during the recent operation of the Peace Fountain on the Syrian border of our most heroic Turkish Armed Forces. I'd like to talk to you about some issues that I think are more important to RTÜK than the budget. From here, I'm talking to writers, producers, private radio players, television, film industry: Our culture is the North Star, so don't confuse our culture with comets that flash. Let's do what we can for you, let's work for your copyrights, let's work for your reruns after the 1st year, let's fight to get your copyrights for your films up to your set employees, let's work on cutting-edge production, watch the producers' rights, prevent movie managers and producers from getting monopolized in the industry, let's try to get a yellow press card even though they're media members of the radio staff. There are competition programs all over the world. Have you come across as low-level programs in our country? There are insults in contests under the names of the mother - in - law, bride, groom, marriage, clowning, family quarrels, cooking. Is it worth it for ratings? In the old Turkish movies, there would be rich girls, poor boys, or vices, there would be manners, there would be family ties, there would be references to neighborhood culture, neighbors would run around with problems, kids wouldn't get wrong, there would be business figures guarding them, saying, "Don't let anything happen to them." What happened to us? There was betrayal, an artificial culture, a corrupt morality, a society that committed murder every day, like playing video games, a society that considered women's murder, child abuse every day, disrespect, immorality, freedom, a foreign youth in its culture. I think in the series, in the movies, in strange scenarios, the Turkish nation wants to be moved in the wrong direction, I think our DNA is being manipulated. What if we're the richest country in the world? If you can't trust your officer, your teacher, your doctor, your police, your politician, the budget doesn't matter, or the politics we do. Our job should be to raise a clean generation of moralists. Our priority is to create human-to-matter civilizations of the heart and mind. In this regard, associations, foundations, and NGOs have a lot to do. The National Institute for Education and Culture in January is doing important work on this, and for children, Dede Korkut, Kutadgu Bilig, has published the books of Nutuk, passing our historical works and personalities to our children. Also, the Institute for Research in Turkish Culture is carrying out serious activities. We support Turkish writers and theatre works, encouraging local TV shows. Let's support Turkish cuisine in the series and in the movies, use our local beauty in filming; that's culture. What we export most is our shows, so let's support these cultural activities in our series. The most important task of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism should be to preserve our culture and explain our culture with all its institutions and boards. By the way, I would like to congratulate Mr. Haluk Bilginer, the artist who made us proud to receive the award for best male actor at the International Emmy Awards, once again on this stage, and wish you a continued success. As I stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, I wish that the 2020 budget would be good for the Turkish nation, and I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0178par1158	This is Mr. Erkan Haberal, our Ankara MP. Your time is nine minutes, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0179par1161	Mr. President, I'd like to start with the promise of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the foundation of the Republic of Turkey. Let's not forget that no culture can be built without art and art. For that reason, art has become the universal language of humans, adding color, harmony and synergy to societies. When long-term Turkish history and ultimately Ottoman history are looked at, it will be seen that the most successful periods in the scientific field also coincide with the most successful periods in the artistic field. Art and science have made simultaneous progress in our history as two fundamental elements that trigger and power each other. Today, from 745 to 840, the Uyghurs, who exist, are known to have made a lot of progress in the arts with their transition into established life. The central play of Turkish theatre began at this time and has come to date. The emergence of the mime again is the work of Uygur culture. Animal education and libraries are one of our cultural sources from the Uygurs again. The Ottoman art, in its imperial glory, has created parallel artifacts to that atmosphere, which have had its effect on all the branches of art in its own unique values. It is not a coincidence that the European armies received the military band tradition from Ottomans. Of course, at the core of these social developments, the love of art, artistic aspects, and the incentives for art are of great importance. It's so IV. Murat (Abraham) has a song and a song that is close to 15, and I would like to remind you again that he is the third. The first opera representation took place at Topkapi Palace in December 1797. II. Mahmoud's poetry and what he breathes and what he says is very famous for his work, "Hizaz Kalander," which has reached our time. The Palace Theatre, which Abdulmecit had built near Dolmabahçe Palace in 1858, was followed by the Gedikpaşa Theatre, built in 1860, and by the theatre where Abdulhamit had built the Star Palace in 1885. Sultan Abdulhamit is interested in music. Apart from his ability to play a few instruments, he's good at playing notes. In parallel, he hosted the great composers, artists, and operettes of the West on the stage at the Star Palace. On this occasion, we must honor Muhsin Ertugrul, the first Turkish Muslim female artist, Afife Jale, and the pioneer of modern theatre, who appeared on stage in 1920. Congressmans, the reason I repeat these historical information is because I remember yesterday and I want to know where we are in the arts today. Unfortunately, today we are not an art-living and corrupt society in contrast with our history. We can't get rid of the habit of looking at art and artist with horse glasses. Unfortunately, our education system is not enough to teach and support art. Children with different ideas and abilities are blinded by their thoughts and desires through family, society and television cooperation. Unfortunately, being an artist continues to carry various risks in our country. However, if you write like this, if you paint like this, if you perform as I love it, it becomes art. Many talents are cut off by the thought of it. Artists who don't fit in, who do their job freely, are in danger of being censored and more than that, being subjected to criticism. The so - called art performers who seek popularity and fame are presented as artists. Artistic activities are expensive to most people because of the lack of income. If we do a self-criticism here, the ease of access to art should be hand in hand with the state and the private sector, and the arts should be much more supportive of the government. Investments in culture and art should be a priority, not limited to tourist areas and major cities. Why can't we have at least one private theater in every county? We can't deny our ministry's support for private theaters, we can't ignore them. But the 5-6 million support provided to 261 private theaters is clearly not an ointment for the wound. And let's not forget that support for 250-300 private theaters is a division of the annual earnings of those celebrities, as artists' monthly incomes coincide with huge numbers. Let's not forget that the more we reduce the economic burden on theaters, the more artistic production will increase. The remaining 80 per cent of the world's private theatre revenues have to be well observed, mainly sponsored by the state, local governments and private sector. Congressmans, my recommendations are limited to encouraging the support of private theaters. You can appreciate that we can't ignore the point of our government theaters, their remarkable work, their synergy, and their service. I owe thanks to all our artists in person, Mustafa Kurt Bey, director general of our State Theatres, who performs unique works every year, as a Turkish citizen. We would like to give the State Theatre, which officially celebrates the 70th anniversary of its establishment, and the State Opera and Ballet, which celebrates its 70th anniversary, 70th in its 70th year. Again, we want to give the same support to special theater artists and their scenes, while our artists have proved what they can do when they're supported. If our theater and opera artists can afford the most beautiful compliments in the world, then we need to make sure that our institutional structure shares in these compliments. The first way and method of ending this desire begins by supporting private theaters and spreading them all to ensure that it is integrated with society and freeing the artist. Let artists criticize, let artists cry, let artists produce, let artists laugh. Laughing is the shortest distance between two people. God has given all mankind their laugh in the same language. Laughing is also the curse of truth. Nietzsche said that we should fake every fact that a laugh does not accompany. He who doesn't know how to laugh doesn't know how to cry. Laughing and crying are people's freedom zones and weapons. Please, let us encourage our artists to remind us of this space of freedom. Congressmans, Turkish opera could be a world brand. We have some world-branded opera artists, Mr. General Manager, who are one of the best examples.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0180par1171	Let's complete it, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0179par1172	Thank you, Mr. President. There are only one opera in most countries in the world, and there are six operas in our country. It will be inevitable for us to make a world brand of our successful artists by very intelligently considering this potential, especially by opening the way for our young people from the conservatory, filling the empty staff. In recent years, our government has realized how successful our artists and art institutions will be. The opera house, which continues to be built in the taxi, is a source of happiness and pride for us. Of course, as an Ankara MP, as a capital, I would like to build an opera house for Ankara, which the world would envy. The current historical building could be considered a museum of Turkish art and music and opened to the world from Ankara with a new magnificent opera house. As I end my words, sir, I salute all our artists, our artists, and the members of our Veteran Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0181par1177	In order to speak, our Istanbul MP, Mr. Cemal Cetin. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0182par1180	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the General Directorate of the Foundations, the Chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency and the budgets for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. I hereby salute the General Assembly with the utmost respect. The Foundations are powerful and radical institutions that have come from the Turkish nation's hundreds of years of vision of civilization and still have influence in a great geography, and are one of the most important building blocks of our cultural identity. Our foundation must be the main objective of taking an active role in community life, as long as it operates in our legal order, tradition, and public order. The development of the foundations and the importance of public life should be ensured that social needs will be met better and that public supervision will be activated. It is, of course, appreciated by our cultural heritage, the ownership of artifacts, restoration and maintenance. In our country, which is the cradle of civilisations, it is a task that requires care and precision, the protection of all historical tissues. Restoration and maintenance of these works should be done by those who know their work without decomposition of historical tissue and should not be made into Rant centers. Also, the protection and development of Turkish architecture, music, theatre, cinema, literature, cuisine should be made a state policy. Dear lawmakers, TİKA has implemented important projects to support the development efforts of Turkish Republics since its establishment in 1992. TİKA activities are crucial to our state's political, diplomatic and economic openings. The TİKA aims to develop relations with countries in the fields of economic, economic, commercial, technical, social, cultural and education, and also organises contributions and assistance in these areas, co-operation with other institutions and organisations to ensure co-operation for this purpose. With its activities so far, the TİKA has signed successful jobs to protect our cultural identity and our existence in countries with Turkish presence and works, and it must continue to produce new projects in this regard. For the use of TİKA (TİKA)'s resources in the field of duty, activities towards the Turkish world must be a priority. In particular, more liaison offices should be opened in areas of Turkish origin, such as Turkistan, Caucasus, the Balkans, and their activities should be concentrated. Precious lawmakers have been established as presidents of Turkish abroad and related communities in order to build a solution to the problems of our citizens living abroad, to strengthen relations with relatives and relatives, to establish closer relations economic, social and cultural. As it is known, we have millions of citizens all over the world; we also have relatives and relatives in a large geography with historical and cultural ties; the sole basis of our citizens and relatives in other countries is the state of the Republic of Turkey. He is unable to carry out the OHR mission, which is expected to establish closer ties to both our citizens and relatives living abroad. The OHR is not well-known to our citizens living abroad, its activities are unknown. The existence and function of the OHR is very important. The presidential failures regarding foreign diplomatic missions must be resolved. The basis for resuscitation and evaluation of projects for international students must be subject to objective rules. On the other hand, in our opinion, it would be appropriate to put more emphasis on quality than quantity, so fewer students will only benefit from more opportunities, interest and pursuit. Of course, not only should this follow-up be carried out after graduation, but also after graduation. As it is known, members and sympathizers of the traitor have infiltrated every institution and organization in our country, and have been in constant contact to carry out their treacherous plans. In the same way, members of the Party continue to operate abroad, especially in Europe, under the protection of these countries. Since TİKA and OHR are operating more abroad, their staff must be thoroughly checked whether they are still members. Both those who live abroad and have fled our country may have continued to operate in their own organization and have infiltrated some of the NGOs. For this reason, the OHR and TİKA (OHR) should be thoroughly investigated, especially for what institutions abroad and sponsored, and closely monitored whether students brought in from abroad, given scholarships, have any contact with them. Our family members and relatives outside of Turkey must be taken close care of within the framework of the principles that govern international law and interstate relations, and the necessary institutional co-operation must first be established. The policies that will be implemented on the Turkish world must be met in a manner that will serve in a co-directional and holistic way to develop radical friendships and lasting alliances. The creation of the Subcommittee of the Foreign Affairs Commission is an important step, but this Subcommittee must be made the main commission. As the National Movement Party, I'd like to express once again the necessity of the foreign ministry of Turks to be established under such care. The correct and beautiful use of Turkish, which we view as an essential element of our national identity, is of great importance to us. Language is one of the main elements that makes people a nation. Studies must be made so that Turkish can be used as an international language of science, art, trade and communication. It works with Turkish states and communities; it must be based on unity in language, opinion, work. Turkish culture should be made a center of attraction for environmental cultures; national culture should be created in order to preserve, develop, promote, and promote Turkish culture. Increased publicity for lobbying activities against Turkey abroad is required, not only from tourism but also from political and social areas. As a result, all steps taken in harmony with the state's foreign policies of the Republic of Turkey must be completed as soon as possible, with an understanding of the TKA and OHR employment policy. For Turkey, which is a regional and global leadership goal, increasing TİKA and OHR budgets should not be considered a burden, but should be considered a priority and a necessity among the steps that must be taken; this is the demand of both our citizens and relatives outside Turkey, as well as the people waiting for our help to reach. Dear MPs, the interests of Turkey and the Turkish nation, peace and happiness are above all accounts for us. First, my country and my nation. The 50-year-old giant player of Turkish politics, the Nationalist Movement Party, has made and made all kinds of sacrifices for its country and its nation. I would like to remind you once again that our party embraces a constructive and protective approach rather than a destructive and insensitive understanding. Our case is based on the Beka of the Turkish nation, which is present in every geography today, and the state of the Republic of Turkey's most powerful organization; we will not hesitate in the slightest, we will not doubt it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0183par1190	Complete it, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0182par1191	And We do not tolerate those who waver and are in doubt. As I put an end to my words here, I wish that the budget of 2020, which is being discussed, will bring blessings to our country and our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0183par1194	The last request on behalf of the National Movement Party belongs to Mr. Kamil Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0184par1197	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to speak for the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budgets of Ataturk Culture Centre, Ataturk Cultural Centre, Turkish Language Foundation, Turkish Historical Institution and Cappadocian Field Presidency. I salute your high council. As I begin my words, I'd like to cherish our heavenly martyrs. Respected lawmakers, a nation and its institutional structure must have a unique political speech and posture in order for the state to maintain its public life. This basically envisions promoting the cultural fabric that one nation from yesterday to the present and to the present, from generation to generation, which we can define as a political, decent, historical, legal, and equitable concept of all values, to contribute to the world's civilization. In the logic of these values, especially the understanding of language unity, or common language consciousness, and history are the key elements that allow the unity and support of the Turkish nation to become strong and form a structure for a period of time. In other words, one of the most important cultural values that make us who we are is our beautiful Turkish flag, which we call our sound flag, and our glorious, glorious history and the heroic advent that allows us to reach with dignity and dignity from the past. This is Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who is acting on this national emotion and worldview, who has been able to establish the national struggle and the young republic by enforcing the potential to become a prominent nation, aware of these cultural values. Furthermore, he established the Turkish Historical Foundation and the Turkish Language Foundation, which also envisioned and envisioned the transfer of cultural values to international dimensions at the same time as maintaining and defending them. As two separate institutions, the structure was later transformed into the Ataturk Cultural Centre and the Ataturk Institute for Research. Given the duties and responsibilities of the boards that support and maintain our values, with the language and history that form the main flow of our culture and shape our way of life within it today, it is also predicted that our language, our understanding, our history, our art and literature, will reach its rightful place on an international scale. We also talk about the existence of cultural values, which are the most permanent treasure and capital of the Turkish nation, and the existence of a mission that should be carried around the world, especially in a political world in which one nation is entering many state processes. Members of parliament, as represented by the two-headed Seljukian eagle, the great Turkish nation, who envisioned the truth of the East-West together, has an obligation to rebuild its relations with the endangered, destroyed, or recognized relatives. This great mission will not only be left to the Ataturk Cultural Language and History Institute, but will be carried out in close co-operation and co-operation with national and international cultural institutions such as TİKA, OHR, TÜRKSOY, TÜRKPA and Yunus Emre. Respected lawmakers, another important task of our institutions is to take the Turkish nation's core and original values to international dimensions to contribute to world civilization. The way to do that is primarily to promote, and this is the most important point where cultural values intersect tourism. So recently, as Zeugma and Gobeklitepe, even the Cappadocian Law, when this promotional mission is done correctly, it will contribute not only to tourism but also to promoting countries and values in every sense. On the other hand, I'd like to draw the attention of our relevant institutions and ministry to another matter, which is the attacks on the Turkish nation and its last refuge, the state of the Republic of Turkey and its cultural, historical, artistic values, and the operations of information pollution and perception. Mr. Secretary, first of all, black propaganda is coming, and unfortunately the same trend continues today, with the production of British intelligence, such as the Blue Book, and the late-night film production. Here's what we saw two weeks ago on the ARD TV program in Germany. The most important way to overcome this is, of course, to discuss scientific, academic, historical facts on all kinds of platforms, but also to use advertising opportunities in place. For example, I would like to briefly share a couple of examples that are very interesting to me in the context of promotion: one of them -- I'm going to tell a story about something that happened in France -- in this great Parliament, with the taxes of this great Turkish nation, with all kinds of material, spiritual possibilities, to make a freaking claim like genocide -- unfortunately, in addition to the existence of someone who carries it all the way to Latin Americas -- is going to go on a summer vacation in Turkey and go to a neighbor and drink a cup of sweet tea and coffee, and then say, "What kind of tough people are these Turks?" (MHP and AK PARTY) Here's an example I'm very, very impressed with, that tourism and publicity can actually think like this. Again, one thing that we will try to express in the same context, in another sense, is that, sir, see, in our history of God's grace -- we have never been above error, but at the point of sincerity, we cannot discuss our respect for humanity, universal values and the world's cultural heritage, our love and our conversation. Now, on the other hand, there is no mention of safety and security in this country. Despite the crisis seekers who say, "It's interesting, this was sent to me by chance last week" a tourist couple makes a video shoot after a trip to Cappadocia. It's very safe here, very beautiful. Please come, and bear witness to the unique beauty of Turkey. I wanted to give an example of a tourist couple who showed courage and genuine human attitude. Both of these have been made public. Respected lawmakers, in action from these examples, of course development is a total event. Tourism is not a matter to be taken lightly, it's not a matter to be made very simple. From time to time, we write books in volumes, we hold really large conferences, large-access panels, sessions, but we can get the distance that we can't afford with tourists that we can't have, that we're hosting, that we're helping, that we're having two tea talks. In particular, Mr. Minister, the numbers have been explained today; indeed, despite everything, Turkey is a growing, developing, moving country in tourism; we see this. I'd like to express a request as I end my words. Sir, look, we go abroad from time to time for tourism, work, academic, political visits; this is very important. In every country we go to, where we stay, especially in those fancy hotels, for some reason, no channel of Turkey is shown or censored.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0185par1207	Complete.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0184par1208	We can't find it, we can't find it, but in countries where this double standard is really very open, when we look at it, I find it hard to understand that China and Russia, which they have always seen as the biggest threat in their speech, is to block the broadcast of TRT World when they broadcast all the channels very clearly and clearly. Whoever sees it, tell our friends. I'm here to remind you, Minister, of a mission. Dear officials, we ask that this be corrected as soon as possible by our consulate and embassy officials there, co-directed by the State Department. Finally, sir, from time to time, Turkish culture states cities. For the past two years, of course, we are celebrating the glorious Battle of Malazgirt Square in Malazgirt. We're actually celebrating there in a naive mood in a sorority home, in the main dorm. Another victory that Asia Minor gave Turkish Islam was the Battle of Paisens. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One sentence...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0186par1214	Complete.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0184par1215	I say that Erzurum, who I represent through the Battle of Paises, is now known for running for the next Turkish cultural city. I expect your support and your contribution in this matter. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit01spe0186par1218	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0186par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. Dear MPs, it was the People's Democratic Party's turn in the talks, and I will now meet the demands of the precious MPs of the Peoples' Democratic Party. The first statement belongs to our Gaziantep MP, Mr. Mahmut Toğrul. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0187par0008	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on the budgets of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the Public Control Agency. I hereby salute you, the General Assembly, and our fellow citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Before I begin my remarks, I salute and salute all of our fellow politicians who were held hostage in the presence of our former Co-Chairs Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ and Mr. Sebahat Tuncel. Again, I remember our beloved MP Ibrahim Ayhan, who died in exile, whose wisdom and posture impressed us all, who served in the 24th, 25th, 26th and 26th Covenant. Mr. President, with the July 15 coup attempt and the April 16 regime amendment referendum, the Parliament's powers have been suspended completely, and the Constitution and Parliament's Institution has been ruled by the country's State of Emergency and the KHK. The TBMM has lost its function, its powers and duties, the democratic parliamentary system, unfortunately, has been gradually purged. Parliament has three basic functions - representation, control and legislation. These functions have been narrowed down by internal regulations; the geneor is no longer available; the account is not asked without execution. A Parliament that performs its work in the shadow of the one man whose representation and control functions have been weakened, the entire power of justice, law and execution is handed over, cannot be claimed to be in accordance with the Constitution, nor can it be claimed to be democratic. In the process, there was also a violation of parliamentary immunity, legislative irresponsibility and freedom of expression, provided by Article 83 of the Constitution. Under the request of one man and under the creation of the political conjunctive, parliamentary immunity was lifted on May 20, 2016, in violation of the Constitution and universal principles of law. The immunity has been lifted to be the subject of a political operation by our party, HDP, the most dynamic opposition of political power. Although there is no mechanism for co-ordinating between the state's attorney general's office on November 4, 2016, many of our deputies have been detained and arrested, including co-ops and co-captains in five counties. Now, despite this operation by instruction, the authority that is still written behind us is the nation's unconditional word. Is it true, or is sovereignty unconditionally your palace? We leave it to the public. Your palace has a habit of appointing trustees everywhere, as if it were appointed trustees to the House, and the House is notarized as the court's notary rather than the public's representation. In the new order that every decision is made from the palace, Parliament has no decision or authority. The reason for the existence of parliaments is to raise the welfare of citizens, to ensure that public taxes are used democratically for the public, which we call the budgetary rights of the government. Today, unfortunately, the House has been stripped of its budget. One of the rules of control of the House is written question motions. Only 8.4 per cent of the proposals have been answered, while the respondents have been given general pass answers that do not meet the questions asked. The Parliamentary Presidency, like a law commissioner, is often extraditing its questions proposals without reaching the relevant ministry on grounds of its Institution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The motions are forbidden to use such phrases as "catchliam"/ "judgmental execution" (e.g. torture) " (e.g. torture) " (e.g. Kurdish language) " (e.g. Kurdish language) " (e.g. Kurrdistan). It's not allowed to express them on the assembly stand, and it's not allowed in this House to speak their native language. The state's television TV is broadcast in Kurdish, but it is described as an unknown language in the same country's Parliament as a non-Kurkish language, and it has a sign on it. So what we want to say is that the cross mark that you put is nothing more than your twisted mindset. Instead of serving peace for a long time, parliament is doing nothing but ratifying the ruling war policies without question, without question. People's representatives are exposed to violence and oppression outside every day. The appointed prosecutor, the police, is trying to rule the chosen will. Will Parliament continue to submit to the custody of the appointed? We're talking about the budget in an environment where people, democratic community organizations, trade unions and citizens don't answer, control, where a large majority of society lives on the edge of hunger and poverty. We don't know if the Turkish Grand National Assembly's budget proposal for next year will be enough or not enough for parliament. Because you don't know the limits of waste. In 2018, $2.7m and $2.6m were spent on transfers from the Turkish Grand National Assembly to associations, foundations and other NGOs. Now, in 2020, it's estimated to be $4.1 million. We don't understand what association and foundations you've been budgeting from the House budget to about 1.5 times as much as the previous year. Who are these associations, and who are these foundations? When poverty and hunger are on the verge of suicide, what is the reason why such an astronomical sum as 28 million for the 100th year of parliament's activities? In this parliament, 29 people have attempted suicide since 2010, including five people in 2019, due to unemployment. Citizens still see this as a solution center, trying to make their voices heard. So, what's the Clave doing? He's closing his eyes on social problems. Let alone the other citizens, this Parliament can't even solve the problems of its own employees. An understanding continues to ignore contracting personnel' rights to severance. We say that the rights to the rights of the consultants employed in the contract status should be equated with the officer and contract personnel who work at the same status. The additional indicator problems of employees in the auxiliary services class have not been solved. Again, subcontractors are not equal to those who do the same work. The salary received by Turkish National Assembly personnel last year and this year are the same and no improvements have been made since KHK No. 696 and 4/D became permanent workers. There are five different salaries among the staff of waiter status. The salary difference among the two employees who did the same job reached up to 3,000 TL. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are tasked with solving the problem between the ombudsman's institution, which is neutral, independent and complaining, given the world's example. Public supervision, for example, is an institution designed to protect human rights and freedoms in Sweden, protect citizens from bad governance in England, and improve relations between citizens and administration in France. However, as usual in Turkey, like an institution that is not remotely similar to the world's specimens, the Society for Public Control is wrong. Instead of creating solutions to social problems, he can't go beyond an institution designed to avoid disturbing power. Therefore, this Institution does not deserve the budget it receives. More than 100,000 people have been discharged due to the State of Emergency and the following SECs, while all applications to the institution have been rejected. In the first six months, the number of recommendations for different applications is only 64. As such, the institution is nothing more than an institution where AKP supporters are employed. In particular, it is clear that opposition parties have been oppressed by the AKP government, that public employees have been expelled without legal grounds, that lawmakers, co-chairs, journalists will not face a fair process in the case of those who will apply for this institution in the days when municipalities have been arrested, when trustees have been charged with trustees. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, citizens have the right to join the administration, run and vote in democracies. The right to choose and be elected is a constitutional right, but this right is sanctioned, and with your trustee policy, you destroy the right to choose and be elected. The municipalities of Peoples' Democratic Party have been defeated by the YSK on the grounds that they are members of the KHK. The Ministry of Interior has decided to appoint trustees for 28. The co-chairs were arrested, exiled, on unlawful charges. You're in public isolation with your trustee policy. You see those who support your power as the will of the nation, but you declare those who oppose your policies as traitors. A trustee appointment is a blow to human rights.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0188par0022	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0187par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. The Parliament, elected by the people's votes, does not even move its hair about the appointment of trustees to municipalities elected by the people's votes. It is the duty of this House to oppose the trustees in the first place. If you're silent with trustees today, you're giving up your right to choose and choose. So from here, we call on both Parliament and all Turkey: Come, let us take the initiative to end these trustees. What have you done for God today, as it has often been expressed, and what have you done for democracy and freedom? Finally, Mr. President, today the European Court of Human Rights of Osman Kavala has ruled a violation of rights. We're calling from here, Osman Kavala must be released immediately. We've been trying to express that Osman Kavala is innocent for months. We hope that the President will not move again and move on, as he had done before in his decision, saying with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0189par0027	Mr. President, put it on the record. We don't have war policies, we have anti-terrorism policies. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0190par0029	Okay. In order to speak, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0191par0033	Mr. President, I salute all of you, the esteemed MPs and the dear citizens who are watching us on their screens. And I'd like to greet all political prisoners in the Selçuk Mizrak person who was still held hostage in prisons by former Co-Chairs Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ and Selak Demirtaş, Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality Co-Chair Gültan Kışanak, and Selçuk Mızraklı, who was arrested by a trustee's coup this period. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, the European Court of Human Rights has ruled on Osman Kavala for the second time today in violation of Article 18; the second decision against Turkey. The first decision was made regarding Mr. Milahattin Demirtaş. He was immediately released and was arrested for political reasons, with no legal basis for his arrest. The same decision was made about Mr. Kavala today. This decision is certainly a binding decision and, of course, Kavala and Demirtaş's decision is not only for themselves, but for thousands of political prisoners who are currently in prison; it is binding. Turkey's judiciary is strictly condemned in front of the European Court of Human Rights. It is not only Turkey's corporate personality that is condemned here, but it is also noted that the judiciary is not neutral and independent in Turkey. On this occasion, I would like to say release all political prisoners arrested by AKP for political reasons, especially Mr. Kavala and Demirtaş, who have been decided to violate them. Yeah, it's December 10th Human Rights Day. In fact, today is the day when torture, severe violations of rights, death, trustees, KHK, OHAL, mine explosions, children's deaths, sick prisoners hurt us more, and heavy weapons hit the heart of civilians. It is a day of celebration in the world, and unfortunately, we live as a day of remembrance of people in Turkey, of what we have experienced, of what we have lost. A survey by the Metropoll Centre for Strategic and Social Research is published today; 82 per cent of Turkey's society believes that rights and freedom has been violated. I'd like to say that this is a very serious rate, and I'd like to tell the valued MPs and the citizens who are watching us. The people say: "My rights and freedoms are being violated." But the government and the ruling party says, "No, there is no such violation, everything is fine." But how is the truth? Now, people scream and complain about torture. He says, "We're being beaten, we're being threatened." He says, "We're saying it on their behalf." He says, "We're looking for justice, justice, the Commission for Human Rights." He says, "We've looked, there's no torture." But we're describing a picture of torture being preserved. What's in this painting? 830 people have been tortured in custody in the last 11 months. That's not the right number for the Home Secretary or anything. He didn't look at the records, expressed such a number to mislead the public. Now the people are violent with us, using indiscriminate force. They say, "Our soldier, our policeman, has done his duty." Dear lawmakers, a decision has been made today regarding Feleknas Uca (Feleknas) who served as Batman MP in this Parliament. His arm was broken because of the violence of Feleknas Uca. The police broke the arm of a congressman, and our congressman filed a criminal complaint. Guess what the D.A.'s decision was, he said it's legal. Now, in this painting, when an MP's arm is broken and the judiciary is legal, you decide how the armband is protected and how the violence is encouraged. People say that working life is not safe; we die every day. They say that work killings happen every day, labor killings happen, but there's a man who doesn't feel responsible; he doesn't feel responsible, he doesn't supervise the employer, and you know what the result is; 1,606 workers lose their lives in 11 months. Look, there are sick prisoners in the prisons, let them use the right to say goodbye, let them spend the last three or five days in the house, let them not die in prison. No, there are no sick prisoners in prison. It's trying, but every day, unfortunately, there are funerals of prisoners from prisons. The last, Emine Aydoğan, Viranşehir, 65 years old, was heavily ill, and her body was removed and she was not even allowed to be buried, and the imam was not allowed to go and perform the final rites. Now, this painting is very heavy. Of course, more than a war, women are being slaughtered. What does Ceren say about Özdemir? They knew the killer, he says. What does Omar Steel say when Emine Cloud dies? It says, "You have to tear the world apart." On the one hand, the government, which maintains such a perception in public, intervenes in women dancing in Kadiköy, demanding their rights, their freedom, their right to live, and in reverse handcuffs. That's what we call perception. Well, I'm giving a speech on the Constitutional Court today. The Constitutional Court is actually the name of a mechanism that emerged after World War II. It is the Supreme Court of the Constitution to prevent pleasure, to protect against severe rights violations, to oversee the legislature. So what are we? The Supreme Court's accomplice, the government's accomplice, has turned the day into a judgment that clears what the government has done and makes new decisions in its own way. Let's remember the foundation of the Supreme Court, folks. The European Court of Human Rights ruled a record number of violations against Turkey. The first is Turkey, which was convicted in the 90s of death and unsolved murders in custody. The ECHR was granted an individual application to the AYM to avoid lawsuits, but, of course, the government did not stop here. The application for the AYM has increased day by day. Because I'd like to draw a diagram that has the European Court of Human Rights at the top, the AYM at the bottom, which has other internal legal mechanisms under it. The government set up AYM to prevent it from going to the ECHM. Now that the files have accumulated in AYM, there are different mechanisms in internal law. Have you guys heard of the Human Rights Compensation Commission? It's not a new unit, it's lawyers. The State of Emergency Commission is another commission, a commission established with the Law on the Compensation of Damages stemming from Anti-terrorism and Terrorism. What does that mean? The government. I do violations. I'm not in charge of systematically preventing torture, death in custody, and violence against women, but I prevent it from being reflected outside and punished, he says. ▪ How do I prevent it? I'll extend the time. He says. And now, before going to AYM, there are no audits. The Constitutional Court said. What happened? Hundreds of thousands of people were supposed to get their dues in the Supreme Court, and the court refused to decide on a job that came its way. Now, there's a commission set up by the State of Emergency Commission -- so you go in with the flu, you come out as a terminal patient -- not to make a decision. The number is very interesting: 8,100... out of 126.200 applications, 83,900 have been rejected. What's the point here? The goal is to victimize the citizen, you will wander, you will wander, you will not get there, you will go to AYM, you will go to AYM, Demirtaş and Kavala, as you have refused your application, the European Court of Human Rights will be forced to refuse, and the European Court of Rights will decide. How long did he win? He won three years, he won four, but that shadow is judgment. The mechanisms established in this civil law are the original AKP's judgment. The AKP isn't comfortable with this. He sets up the entire judiciary himself, more than 50 per cent of the appointments are under his control, but that's not enough, he doesn't trust the judiciary again, this time, like the ombudsman, this time, like the CDC, he builds institutions like the Self Data Protection Board, and he clears his own power practice there. Regarding the Committee for Protection of Personal Data -- we heard it last month at the Human Rights Commission -- I'm telling you, the personal data of 82 million citizens in Turkey is at the power's disposal. That was made clear by the President of the Personal Data Protection Board. They used it publicly in the Istanbul election, they had the data, and now all of our data is in the hands of the Board.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0192par0045	Complete, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0191par0046	But you know what they're dealing with? You know how we get messages every day, the ads, the Board for Protection of Personal Data, they deal with those ads? We're uncomfortable, it's true, deal with them, but don't let the government, or rather, use our actual data to power themselves in the depths of power. There's a lot to say, but I'm running out of time. I'll tell you this, for the first time, this shadow is judgment, and those mechanisms are the law of the AKP. Once in a while, the violation decisions made by the AYM are only intended to save the image. Look, they're pretending there's a judgment. We don't accept this sort of thing anymore, we deny it, and we really need today to be the day of freedom for all political prisoners. The decision of the ECHR is very important. And my last word: there is no morality where there is no justice. It was said by Montaigne many years ago, centuries ago. That's why I say we keep justice and morality.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0193par0050	Mr. President, according to 60, I have a request for my position.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0194par0051	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0193par0054	Mr. President, I've heard the public defender's speech, criticism. Let's get a few things straight. A statement such as the one that was arrested was used. Now, some decisions are being made, some people are enjoying them; some people are being explained, they don't like them. Now, when a decision arises that pleases you, the judiciary decides as independent, and when a decision comes out that you don't like it, the AK PARTY does it. Therefore, we do not accept this contradiction. There's no such thing as us getting arrested or anything like that. The government or the EC PARTY is a political organisation, a political party, which is busy managing Turkey. Judgment is a separate man, a separate force, acting in its own way. There may be criticisms, but I don't think it's right to link us directly to this. There's no way we can tolerate a torture-like grasp. We're also a country fighting it, we're a power, friends. Here's what the Home Office announced...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0195par0058	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0193par0059	There is no one in this Parliament who will tolerate torture, consent, and neither can we. We've always been against it, and we're against it, but the interior ministry has explained some figures. To mislead the public, the Ministry will now make the official statement. If you don't believe it, then you're going to take out some numbers yourself, and you're going to prove it. So as of now, the government's legitimate law enforcement is run by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the numbers they've explained are the right numbers from our point of view. Now, your criticism against the AK PARTI is a separate dimension, but the EC PARTI is a political party, subject to the Law of Political Parties; it has regulations; it has regulations; it has internal regulations; it has regulations; it has conventions; it does that. AK PARTY wouldn't have stood up to the elections if it were the structure you claimed it was.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0195par0062	Finish it, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0193par0063	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I didn't finish. The EC PARTY is still Turkey's largest party, by far the largest, and is the strongest party to win the election. Thus, if there were a structure, as you put it, it would not be appreciated by the people.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0196par0065	Just because you vote doesn't mean you're legit.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0193par0066	Violence against women... who can accept dear friends? Everybody's against it. Look, we've made arrangements in this sense to protect the family, to protect the woman. So we're a sensitive power at this point, a sensitive party. We're not running away from here. And finally, look, it's about personal data, we've got the Personal Data Protection Act, there's a law. There are criminal provisions related to how personal data can be used, which are applied to those who are outside of it. Each member of parliament, a sensitive MP, will press charges if he sees any other action. Beyond that, what will power do? He'll make legal arrangements, and he'll make criminal provisions. Anyone who doesn't like it, who sees the contradictions, who's neglected, has to use the judicial mechanism. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0197par0070	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0198par0071	Sir, I have a request of your appreciation for the briefness of the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0197par0072	I'm a little short, but here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0198par0074	Yes, sir, thank you. I'll tell you one thing: it's a process for the majority party to comment on every speaker's speech, evaluate it. I don't think that's very true, yes, it's teasing, that's what it is, it's always got a say in not picking on it. I'd like to make some evaluations on this occasion. Mr. President, it's Human Rights Day. Our attitude is clear; democracy is essential. We've always said that no claim, no claim, no legitimacy to terrorism, no innocence to a terrorist. However, no security concern can be based on the abolition of fundamental rights and freedoms. That's our basic understanding of this. I found it right to repeat such an assessment in terms of Human Rights Day.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0199par0078	Let's complete it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0198par0079	Mr. President, exactly three years ago today, on December 10, 2016, 47 members of the police have been killed and 242 others have been injured in the terrorist attack launched near Vodafone Park in İstanbul after the meeting of Beşiktaş-Bursaspor on December 10, 2016. The common denominator of martyrs and martyrs was that they were young. In this treacherous attack, Berkay Akbaş, a 2nd-grader at the University of D.C. Medical School, son of a very close friend of mine, also became a martyr. We thank him and all of our security forces, all of our citizens, who have been martyred in this attack, with mercy and gratitude. Of course, some of the attackers were captured, certain punishments were given. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0199par0082	Let's complete it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0198par0083	With this and similar terrorist attacks to be the end and end, I hereby remember our beloved martyrs with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. I salute you and the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0199par0085	Dear Oluç... Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, of course, since we're discussing the Constitutional Court, I'd like to make a brief point or two. As in every country, we are talking about the Constitutional Court of Turkey, where there is no last and then no place to apply. So, of course, it's important that the Constitutional Court behaves in accordance with its good conduct, its decisions, its universal principles of law, and its international democratic contracts under Turkey -- which I refer to as the European Convention on Human Rights and the Court of Human Rights -- in this regard, of course, it's important that it behaves in line, we expect it and we want it. Of course, the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights may be criticised, but a European Court of Human Rights must comply with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which may be criticised, but must comply. Now, I'm going to give you two examples. One is related to our former Co-Chair, our beloved Denizhattin Demirtaş. A decision has been issued from the European Court of Human Rights, and in order that the decision issued by the European Court of Human Rights will not be carried out, we will make a move against Justice and Development Party Chairman Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Complete it, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0200par0092	They've made a move against the law, they've resorted to a trick, they've done it, they've done it, and they've been arrested, they've been held politically hostage. Who did he make the move for, the leader of the Justice and Development Party? For his political opponent, he did it for a person who fought him in politics, who was nominated against him. The second example, again President of the Justice and Development Party President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said: "We can't leave." How can you or can't? The president is the head of the administration, are you in charge of the trial? Yes, well, since this President has eliminated the separation of forces and joined forces with him, we can't leave the word because he gives very clear instructions to the judiciary. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President... complete. I'm completing it. Therefore, I stress these two particular issues. In terms of the Constitutional Court's decisions and the European Court of Human Rights, let's stress that this attitude of conduct -- this attitude of power -- is absolutely not legal, it is not universal law, it is never acceptable. Now, we'll see in Osman Kavala's decision. Of course, the Grand Office of the European Court of Human Rights will decide for Demirtaş, and we will see their position in that decision. It's Human Rights Day, yeah. If the authorities are democratic authorities in a country, their data is believed, but if the authorities are not democratic -- and we are talking about the situation in Turkey -- then not the data given by the authorities, but the data of civil society organizations in this area, human rights associations and civil society organizations in the field of law. It's like this all over the world, and so are we.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0201par0101	Your last words, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0200par0102	I'll give you my last sentence. There are open reports of 830 torture cases in 11 months of human rights organizations. So, by ignoring these reports, the data given by my Home Secretary is important. He can't avoid it because the Home Secretary said: I don't have to look at it in the eyes of the Constitutional Court. However, the Minister of Interior has to look at it in the eyes of the Constitutional Court, which must comply with the decisions made by the Constitutional Court and the courts, but we will discuss it again later. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0202par0105	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0203par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the most valuable MPs are Beşiktaş and Bursaspor, who were killed by 47 people who were killed in the explosion, including 242 people who were injured in the explosion, as a result of the explosion by a bomb vehicle and another by a suicide bomber. In the third year of this vicious attack, we offer our blessings to our martyrs, to our nation, and to the relatives of our martyrs. This attack was carried out by the PKK's terrorist organization and is a treasonous attack.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0202par0110	Go ahead, let's finish.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0203par0111	In this context, on December 10th Day of Human Rights, I also say that we curse the concepts of freedom, such as the rule of law, the massacres of terror, the ruthlessness of terrorism, and the use of it to conceal the right to live which is the most sacred right of man. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0204par0172	This is Mr. Necdet Silkface, our Batman MP. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Silkface.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0205par0175	Mr. President, Dear Regents, I salute you all. Since this morning, our friends -- some friends -- have made some statements because today is December 10th, Human Rights Day. The Day of Human Rights, December 10th, in fact, is a day of political opinion, thinking, national, social origin, property, birth, and other status, which has been raised in the presence of all human beings without regard for any of them, and in the year 2019, Turkey, despite what we say here, many people object; human beings are human by their rights, and people express their reactions to persecutions and injustices that they face while they fight for their dignity. Look, our friends told us, in Turkey, not torture, that now the governors, the trustees, are extending the bans in the form of copies. Not even a press release is allowed. We've shown photos here so many times, our deputies don't even like handing out notices. ▪ Is torture necessary to electrocute? ▪ Is torture what you call a falseka? Today, the system systematically tortures the opposition in every aspect of life -- in its press statement, in its opinion, in its expression, in many areas. Our friend just told me that sometimes it leads to a broken arm, a broken foot. In many places, rights violations are prohibited from entering the village publicly, and MPs are banned from entering the village. People can receive their funeral days later, not even autopsy results are shared. And let those who fear when they are mentioned of human rights at a time like this know that they will be questioned about it. How will it be given? History will be held before you. So, what's going on? Look, we're talking about prisons. The presence of prisons in Turkey today... there were 59 thousand and so many prisons when you came to power, now 260,000; prison by the neck, and do you know who's the most in prisons? We have prisoners; we have prisoners, not prisoners. Last week, I was with my beloved Demirtaş on these events. Who stays in a high-security prison in Edirne? According to the legal system, people who are severely punished stay in prison, and there are no prisoners left. Today, in Kandira, Edirne, many prisons you describe as "F" types, remain prisoners, and you bring them to something that is already innocent, for their freedom of thought, for their freedom of expression, for their own, for their families, for their relatives, for their own. The person in Batman is Zonguldak. The person in Mardin is Giresun. The person in Mush is Yozgat. After him -- well, accidents can happen, people can't get their loved ones -- all of which can be described as torture. Patients are tied to the bed if necessary, in prison, in reverse handcuffs, thousands of cases are being committed. And besides all that, there was this chipping thing. When it comes to your job, you say that when the Constitutional Court doesn't work for you, you say that we don't want the Constitutional Court to work for us, we want the law to be enforced everywhere, and our friend just told us that a shadow of law is being enforced. It's being arranged according to your preferences, you can change judges in an hour, you intervene. Look, what did the Home Secretary say last time? I will not recognize the rulings of the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0206par0183	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0205par0184	What will the citizen do if our constitutional rights are violated by the executive who considers himself above the law? The right of choice has already been destroyed, and all kinds of procedures are being implemented to become increasingly gassed. Look, while we were talking about prisons, our friends told us today, because of what they think, our present and past Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) co-chairs, many of our executives, our deputys, our mayors, all of them in prison, and all of them continue to struggle with their beliefs, political stances to build peace in Turkey, and they've been sending us these messages all the time. But with the presidency, everything went into a different process along with the pleasure system. We're going to talk about the Court now. What is the Court doing? He oversees public institutions for the sake of Parliament. Normally, the Regents check it out. This has already been restricted to the new system. In fact, in the past, the MPs would go into the prison they wanted, inspect it, know what it is; go to the agriculture department, supervise it; go to Child Protective Services, supervise it. Now, just as that authority has already been taken, the audits of the Court in our behalf in the name of Parliament are becoming increasingly difficult. How do you bring it in? One: there's secrecy. It's called. Two: the institutions transferred to the asset fund are being removed from the Court's control. Three: There are billions of liras spent on such an institution as the presidential presidency, which are called secretism, and when the Court has written some of the reports, it is not being processed, these are not being taken into account. What's being done? The institution, which has the most important control authority of the House, is being increasingly brutalized. There's a Kurdish saying that they destroy it, they reduce it a little bit, they destroy everything. How do they do it? Look, I'll give you an example: Victory Airport was built for 3 provinces, for Kütahya, Afyon, and Uğur. Court audits show how irregular this place is, but regulations are being changed to make it stick, the law is being changed. The international definition of this now is corruption based on the law because it is being observed. What's he saying? It's a company, it's a person to go, it's a person to come; it's two euros for someone to fly in the country, 10 euros for people to go abroad. According to the calculations -- the total population of 3 counties -- is not all affordable if they're flying, and this money is coming out of all of our pockets, but it's -- I'm now -- it's formal corruption, if I'm right. The Court has a fellowship commission, which has not been collected for seven years, for seven years. In doing so, the Court was somehow narrowed down by the Court's own authority, and so were those appointed, but the inspection of the Parliament's name has become so... look, there's been an arrangement for the right of recognition of the administration. There's no limiting report on the management's right of appreciation. Thus, the Court does not know what to do when it is gone. We conducted a study, and with our friends, 16 percent of the most studied institutions had no reports written last year. No one will write any more reports and be audited. There's some corruption that we've mentioned yesterday -- every time we mention it here, everyone objects to the issue of trustees. Corruption has not been detected at a time when there are no trustees or trustees, but when they come about trustees, some people, 11 people have been sent elsewhere or suspended. We asked the Court over and over about the trustees, but we asked them in writing, verbally, but they did not answer. We asked at the Plan and Budget Commission, two of our friends are here and the members of the Commission are here. Here's the statement from the Court's president. The Court's President ▪ Is there any criminal complaint against the appointed municipalities?? He explains to our question: "The entire 31 negotiations belong to the appointed municipalities." Yes, friends, after the March 31 elections, the painting came out: as it was determined by 31 corruption court reports during the Kayium period, nothing our friends showed on TV, on the news has been noted. Well, when we talk about Kurds here, when we talk about Kurdish, when we talk about Kurdish, everyone says something. You know what the trustees do first? Downloading Kurdish signs, removing regulations on the Kurdish website, closing Kurdish-service daycare centers, women's centers, youth centers, play centers, art centers. Once again, Kurdish language, native language is important to everyone. Language is Kurdish (...). (...) (x) is the heart, the heart. You hurt your heart, you hurt everything, you can't fix it. What we call a tongue wound and what we call a "x" injury is not forgotten in the Kurds, nor is it forgotten yesterday, nor is it forgotten today, nor will it be forgotten. This has to be arranged because when you don't do this, really, your words about peace stay in the air. Now, there is much to say about the Court. There's also been a release of something called the Entity Fund. Many institutions are being transferred there and removed from the Court's control. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0207par0193	Complete.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0205par0194	After that, many institutions, established agencies, are being taken out of court control again, and when these audits are removed, neither moral nor ethical nor conscience nor politics... it's all said: I can apply pleasure as I please in this new system, I can exercise authority, I can act as I please, and you can oppose it the way I set it, you can oppose it. But let them know that we have not been politically opposed to it in the past, until the end. We will stand beside the poor until the end, beside those who are wronged, by those who are miserable, and by those who fight because we believe that the fight will bring better days to Turkey in the future. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0207par0197	In turn, our Antalya MP, Mr Kemal Nightingale. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0208par0200	Mr. President, my dear lawmakers, my body, my spiriter, my heart, my heart, my love, my faith, the people of Turkey, I salute you with love. This is the Day of Human Rights on December 10th and two exemplary violations of human rights on the Day of Human Rights on December 10th: First, the Batman Public Prosecutor considers it normal for our Batman Deputy Feleknas Uca to have his arm broken during a police intervention during an event. This means after this, break the arms of HDP MPs and hand them to him. This is nothing more than a human rights violation; the prosecutor committed a crime. Two: Yesterday, the beloved artist Yilmaz Çelik, who performed in Dersim, was arrested today. Why? It's the music, the learning, the breathing, the saying. I know from here a human, moral, political mission to remind people of this truth on Human Rights Day. Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, Sebahat Tuncel, Gülten Kışanak as long as they are in prison, prosecutors have committed a trial and political crime that affects it, and must be released immediately and immediately. As for the budget, dear Minister of Culture, I've come to collect a hundred and forty-four years' worth, to collect a hundred and forty-four years' worth.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0209par0206	Work it out amongst yourselves. I'll show you how to work it out between us, stop! What does that mean? This is what it means: In 1834, Mahmoud appointed trustees at Haci Bektas Veli camp, and the trustees, under the power of Nakshibendi, blockaded the Aleki, the postnist of the period - Haci Bektas Murshidi - Hamdullah Çelebi was arrested and tried in Kırşehir, their hearts were not enough to execute him, and their hearts were banished, and they marched to Hakkk. Since 1876, Turkey has been governed by the Constitution, my dear Erol Hodja, and in this four hundred and forty-four years, there is a right to make a budget, but the tax collected from Alevis is taken as a service to the mosque, given to various illegal, illegitimate foundations, not given to the Alemi society; you owe us a hundred and forty-four years' debt. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) There is also a life debt and a spiritual debt in this debt for a hundred and forty-four years. When Haci Bektas was closed on 30 November 1925, where were the manuscripts and equipment taken? Where's the money from the Haci Bektas company since August 18, 1964? You owe us money. This budget is illegitimate, even on this budget, the debt budget, see, the pirate, and when that happens, what happens when you say it? We're being charged. What happens when we say that? You've seen this sign, haven't you, fellas? You have seen this sign in Marash, in Corum, in Malatiah, in Sivas, in Madimak, everywhere, haven't you? That's the sign in the mind of sovereign politics.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0210par0213	We had the most reaction.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0211par0214	Just last week, this sign was placed on our doorstep in İzmir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0212par0215	They put it there themselves.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0211par0216	They didn't put it there, you're lying!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0213par0217	Dear friends, let's hear it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0211par0218	In Adıyaman, Adıyaman, İskın, İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir, all over Turkey, our doors have been marked and the Home Minister finds the HDP person who makes a statement and finds the one who throws it, but he can't find the one who throws it. Süleyman Noble, is your officers, your security guards, your intelligence officers so incompetent or so incompetent? You can't find one that throws hundreds of times, and you can't find one that throws, and not one person is on trial, and there's no charge against one person. What does that mean? It is an act of hatred against the people of Alevi, to cast them out, to push them out, to push them out, to commit a crime against the people of Alevi. Since 1834, the land has been banned from Alevilik. If Aleviylik is still not forbidden and is spoken of, it is because of the legitimate democratic struggle of the Alevi community itself. It's inconsolable, it's a violation of our rights, it's a desecration, it's a theft. I'll tell you more, but I wouldn't be a slave to the king, to the geda, to the geda, to what extent. I wouldn't be a servant, but I'd say more, but there's a lot more to be done, to the truth, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right. We have to talk about this path, the face of men, the face of truth, the honor of water, the justice, the mercy, the grace, the taste, the delight, and the mindset of this delicacy, this justice, which still forbids the language of this slander, yet does not apply to the European Court of Human Rights, which does not give electricity and water to our houses, which makes our souls smell in the morgue. [[Applause from HDP rows]] In 2014, the Cem Foundation applied to the European Court of Human Rights and said that the European Court of Human Rights, the mosques in Turkey, as well as mosques, synagogues and churches, but this decision was not implemented. It is forbidden to enter its houses, not even electricity, not even water, and it is put on the doors of its houses, and it is put on the doors of its people, and it is put on the doors of its people.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0214par0222	Who forbids it?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0211par0223	It's a fact. You forbid it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0215par0224	Don't lie.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0216par0225	Dear friends, not mutually, please. Listen to the messenger.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0211par0226	You have the answer to your question. Please don't ask me the question you have the answer to and take my time. Now, I wish it was just this. I just wish that was all there was to say about the Ministry of Culture. We all know very well, dear friends, the national gardens of various institutions and organizations that the Ministry of Culture has built on Armenian burial grounds. Again, I told you in the Commission talks, and I'll repeat it here, see, there's a place called the city of Uruguay. Shuaib is one of the prophets, and Shuaib is a prophet who was said to have given his daughter to Moses Kelimullah, and Moses took him to his place as his host. There's a toilet built on top of his host; I went by myself, I saw it. I told the attendant over there, "Why is there a toilet here, what's this?" You know what the officer told me? Mr. Deputy, he's been around since. Look at the answer, the insensitivity. Now, in Turkey, all historical monuments and patterns have been reduced to ruins, especially Antalya; there is no explanation, no direction, no public transport, no guidance service, and there is no inscription, a book, a description of the historical history of these parts, and there is very little to be found. Tourism, going to places like this, has become almost a kind of pirate duty, some kind of pirate study. However, we, HDP, say: Let us do a study with common mind, with common thought, with common thought, with a common effort to claim the sacred and precious and historical and cultural heritage of all the peoples of Turkey that constitute the Turkish people, Kurdish people, Armenian, Süryani, Arab, Laz, Çerkek, Turkey. In this regard, please do not exclude the mind, and only when these studies are done can the work of the Ministry of Culture find its meaning and location. Dear friends, it's often highlighted from here, not to cause a pollen, but to emphasize a fact, we haven't just been violated in the Republic. Look, those who know know, the leader of the Jalali Movement says that Bozoklı Sheikh Jalalalalalha says: "There is no Ottoman/Eyeri bitch Ottoman/Ekende, there is no Ottoman/sanctist in Yiye, we are also in violation of rights in Osmanlı, but the mind here is going to the people's chosen people, asking for votes, saying that the rights are legitimate and valid, but when the work comes to the point of acceptance of rights, we are also in violation of the rights of the Ottoman Empire, and we are in question of a transfer, it is a matter of the people's rights.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0217par0232	Complete, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0211par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. Your daughter-in-law, let's not waste our time in this country honoring lovers and faithful men who have served the country to come to this day. As Hudai Baba said: Men, bring poison. Hang him, sure, your face, but Enough with the language, let's do it. Love and love and respect.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0218par0246	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0219par0247	Mr. Turan, you have a request for your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0218par0251	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to make a few things clear before I can afford a polemix. I'd like to point out that we don't find it true that the speaker was detained after the concert for stealing an artist's reed. We've learned from the interests, Mr. President, that the court of justice has issued a court order from the organization's membership and organization's propaganda.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0219par0254	Wait a second, guys...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0218par0255	Dear friends, another matter: Again, I tried to listen carefully to the speaker, but once again, the budget is illegitimate. I reject the expression. If we start saying that the budget is illegitimate, it's illegal. It turns out that it's not the right approach, Mr. President, we have to pay attention to our language. Other than that, as a separatist, as an aberrant language, based on historical memories that have been going on for a hundred and forty years, we don't have to take it. You have a life debt. I find it very dangerous, Mr. President. We're 82 million brothers with the Alevi, with Sunni.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0220par0258	You'll find it dangerous.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0221par0259	We don't give away our rights.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0222par0260	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0223par0261	When you're serving with one, that's Alevi, that's Sunni, that's Kurd, that's Turkish. 82 million have common values, common march.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0221par0262	We all pay taxes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0223par0263	Please don't be offended by those who say we're brothers, I'm saying we're brothers.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0221par0264	If we're brothers, let's make it sister law.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0223par0265	If you're not, then get out, brother. Listen a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0224par0266	Mr. Paylan, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0223par0267	Dear friends, an understanding that doesn't tolerate me saying we're 82 million brothers has nothing to do with this country.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0225par0268	Then we want our sisterhood.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0223par0269	Look, the cross mark that the speaker just showed, that was the agenda of the House last week. All the parties have condemned and condemned it without exception. They say, "We are followers of it." I don't think it's right to make some accusations from here. Whatever religion, faith, religion, religion, or sect, we find not right in the act of our brothers, or brothers, who put the cross, or the cross, or whatever it is. We're following the lead on this. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0226par0271	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0227par0272	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0228par0273	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0229par0274	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0230par0275	Dear friends, one moment... Dear friends, I don't think it's right to have this much discussion after every conversation. The speakers, they're talking...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0231par0277	But it's always the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0232par0278	I never picked on you, Mr. President. I said we're brothers.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0230par0279	I know. We'll keep talking. Mr. Survivor here and Mr. Nightingale have requested a statement.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0233par0282	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0230par0283	Mr. Nightingale, Mr. Group Vice President has requested a word. So, Mr. Group, when the Vice Presidents ask for a word, I don't give our other friends a say. Please, you too, let's continue with the other speakers. Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0234par0287	Mr. President, very briefly... We Alevi don't know any threats, that's how you fix it. This is the kind of treatment we get when it comes to being both Kurdish and Alevi, who are threatened here every day. The Deputy Group Presidents recently gave a very meaningful speech based on these cross-signs, but there's still not a single person on trial, not a single case to be handled. Then we're worried about our past practice, we're worried about our past practice, we live in anxiety as a community, and I'm speaking as a Flame. Again, Mr. Bulent Turan will need to correct this speech. It is called brotherhood, and of course we laugh and pass. It's not like that, it's not practical, but if you don't believe in a substitute, get out of here. In that case, I always say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President... All right, complete.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0235par0293	He doesn't understand me, Mr. President. I'll explain later.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0234par0294	If I'm doing it, I'm saying it's for me, so let's get down to it. Everyone here went to the trunk the same way, came here legitimately. We have the same right, the same authority, the same saying, get out, go. It's not meant to be called, it's not true, it's not true.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0236par0296	Mr. Nightingale, if you'll kindly express your thoughts, I'll invite the other speaker.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0237par0298	Sir, now under the House's roof, the notes that have been written in the history of these talks should be complete, in our opinion. We felt that we had to take words in this frame, that we needed to. Now, we've witnessed an extremely provocative, provocative conversation. Even though there are a number of clairvoyants in it, some of the Sufi phrases are used at some point, we hide behind these statements, and that's what we object to. So in the one-minute part of the conversation, it's not right to talk about it and throw up a nine-minute grudge. So, now that you're from this nation, we have a life to take in this great assembly. You say, "Who are you going to kill?" Explain to me how you're going to collect who you're going to take their lives in. Where's your gut feeling when you guys talk about it? Kamalat, is it with a bill to pay, or is it with a hundred and fifty-year-old grudge? If there's a life to take, there's a lot to talk about in this nation, a lot of people who have a lot to buy. If we start that collection, no one will be able to sit still, but this nation is a great nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Nightingale, complete. We are the ones who live with the rights of this nation, the rights of this state, even though we face some injustices, some misunderstandings, some adversity. That's what happens to members of this nation. That's how unity is provided in this country. As a result of the unjust accusations and allegations, Mr. Kemal, he had the feeling to entrust his children to this noble nation, despite the people who tried to take his life after he had been tried in a so-called court in Istanbul, after he had been sentenced to death. We're a nation, a country, facing people with high feelings, dignity. We need to heighten these feelings, to glorify them.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0238par0303	Round it up, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0237par0304	If the Alevility is understanding, if it's brotherhood, it's about legitimacy. If there are mistakes in the past, and there are shortcomings in the present, then speak of them, and say of them, and be demanding that they be removed; and there is no one to dispute with them. But there was clearly a provocation in Izmir, an incident where the whole of Turkey protested in the most violent way, in the most powerful way.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0238par0306	Please complete.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0237par0307	...to make it seem like a systematic attack against our government, against our nation, or against a part of our society is not the right approach. With that understanding, there's no way we're going to be able to prevent a fire from sparking. At this point, I think we should be more conscious, more cautious and more careful under the roof of the House. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0239par0310	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0240par0311	Mr. Turan, you've had a request for a word.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0239par0313	Mr. President, dear friends, I think I've just, in fact, made my point. However, the sleeper is awakened, the blind are explained, but I don't think there's anything to do with those who don't want to see, who don't want to wake up. It was clear what I was saying earlier, we're 82 million brothers. If you're yelling at a friend who's yelling at him, despite all the brotherly expressions, then he's got the right to say, "Come out." I said, "If we don't have to take anyone out, we're brothers." Mr. President, once again, we are brothers to Sunni with 82 million Flames. I don't think it's right to count from historical errors and practices today. We look to the future, we enjoy walking side by side with each other, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0240par0315	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0241par0316	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0240par0317	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Nightingale, so you can make a brief statement from your position, and we'll wrap it up. But now all the parties have expressed their common opinion.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0242par0318	We didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0240par0319	I don't think it's necessary to take too long. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0243par0322	Yes, first of all, the Alevis and the Sunnis, of course, must live as brothers and sisters, all of the people in this country must be equal. There is no doubt about it. Whoever condemned the cross-signing did well, which is good, but there's a right violation here, and there's always a mass of people ready to provoke when we declare this right violation. There's no such thing. We're just saying what we're going through. Love is our religion. We are a people in this land who have paid for justice, equality, justice, living and living, and who have looked upon seventy-two nations with one eye, and considered them equal, and respected the rights of seventy-two peoples. We've never organized hatred, hatred, or hostility.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0240par0324	Okay, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0244par0326	Mr. President, just one sentence from Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0240par0327	You want to add?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0244par0328	Yeah, I want to add.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0240par0329	Yes, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0244par0331	Again, I'd like to remind you that most of the Aleki massacres have been cross-signed, and that's how it's been approached. We were stabbed, stabbed, killed in the middle of the street because the responsible were not investigated for what they were doing. From this practice, as I have just said, this is our concern; let it not be simplified, ordinary people have done it, it is a provocation. We mean look into who did it for what.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0240par0332	Okay, thank you. Of course, dear friends, if that was the case, what I saw was clearly condemned by all political parties. There's also a representative of the government who detects that sensitivity here. Of course, this matter must be resolved immediately. On the contrary, we are all carefully watching a process where no one will feel uneasy, and those who have done so will not get away with it, and we wish that this would happen as soon as possible. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area Now, it's time for our Istanbul MP, Mr. Ahmet Şık. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Elli.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0245par0398	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello, everyone. I've been promised budget negotiations, but I'll keep this brief. You know the story of the skater fight, the only people who get hurt in this representation that doesn't look like they're fighting, because pickpockets rob the people who watch this fake fight. When I look at the frequent fight here, I always think of this phrase because we're on the same ship at the last point where people pretend to be fighting with each other. They meet at the same point, saying, "We're on the same boat." It creates conditions for pickpockets, thieves, robbers, and robbers to work freely. The wealth of a handful of political, capital and supporters is greater than the sum of millions of small-income individuals. Even in the form of law, those who don't feel the need to protect the law put the tyranny of this robbery in our eyes every time to intimidate anyone who objects. On the one hand, there's a lack of manners that puts one stone ring on their own children; on the other hand, there are dead children. Our children are dying of hunger; they are dying in the train massacre; they are dying in the sea or in the river; they are dying in Suruç, they are dying in front of Ankara Station; they are dying in the war; they are either workers or in despair, they are dying in cyanide suicides. When that's the case, it doesn't make any sense to say "law, law, legislation." It's the question of your legitimacy that's true when you're not even a law state, let alone a legal state. If we do not speak the truth, we become hostages of those who hide the truth, because, as Nietzsche said, all unspoken truths poison. Therefore, on this platform, we need to speak the truth, not a crowd of words about the budget. The truth is that no budget that attracts the government's resources to capital, politics to a handful of minorities and war is in the interest of the public. Every time we tell you the truth, you easily label the traitor, the separatist, the terrorist, the rebel, the backstabber, the enemy of the state, not only us, but whoever you are from your former president to your former prime minister, to your ministers, your ministers, your insults are standing by. Listen not to the Pelican gang and the trolls they employ, but to your transitional executives who are starting to speak later, so that when it comes to you, there will be those around you who will speak. Know that when that day comes, there will be people talking about the danger of beka, just like there is today. It's true that there's a beka danger, but you're the one who created that danger. You're doing one person's support by putting the entire country on top of 80 million. It's not someone's problem, it's the people's. That's what scares you. You're right to be afraid because today you who think you're a crowd, a powerful and a winner will take your place as the shame of the darkness of the future, because you know as well as we do that what's shown as right is wrong, that what's called wrong is true, that what's right in what's called wrong is not at all, that the future exists with us. Our invitations to righteousness, goodness, truth will have no effect on those who want to maintain this order of theft and theft. So what I'm going to say after this is for our dear people. Apparently, there's a very religious power that doesn't drop the name of God in their mouths. So we've seen that in this period of power, the money for bribes is counted by prayers, even by fetishes and bribes. Once the former ruling and accomplices were published, everyone heard. Yet they didn't stop, and those who ran all kinds of dirty jobs with their insatiable hunger continue to spin the biggest robbery wheel in the history of the republic with tenders and siphoning paid to commissions, where a handful of investors are richer. Do you like those who steal the orphans, and do not fear that they may desecrate what is sacred to you, so that you may maintain their sinful ways? They drill mountains for gold, they destroy forests, they cut down olive groves. They plunder the plateaus for the thermal plants, and they dry the streams and rivers for the HESEs, even the lake, whose name for the treasure is unbroken. They destroy parks for malls and turn cities from concrete to graveyards for the sake of rant temples. Those who claim to corrupt all the beauty of the land plunder the state and plunder the country. Will you continue to keep them pure? Are you with those who choose to die because of corruption, poverty raised by theft, poverty and deprivation, who want to end the problems of the mother who committed suicide after turning on the hair dryer to warm her children, who use social benefits to turn the poor into political hostages? Are you opposed to the murder of workers with these organized robberies, which have been made poorer and richer by labor and poorer, or will you continue to be responsible for turning mines, factories, constructions into pits of death? From teachers who commit suicide because they have not been appointed, from young people who are out of work or who can't do their jobs, from academics who sign peace declarations who have been suspended from their students, to eat tree bark. Are you in favor of those who have been taken out of the public by midnight decrees, from those who embezzle themselves and those who pledge themselves to work? Journalists who tell us what the ruling owners are and what they've done are being thrown into dungeons, and they want us to believe that those who have the trumpet in their power are journalists. Are you going to believe that it was the journalists who told the truth and were imprisoned for it at all costs? For those of you who remain silent about the appointment of trustees and imprisonment of the elected representatives of the people tomorrow, it will be too late. On the one hand, are you on the side of those who use the word "chosen will" and then lock up the representatives of those who showed that will by calling them "terrorists," or are you on the side of those who keep saying that the Kurds are equal citizens as well? Will you be a party to the law, justice, peace, and justice of the innocents who are imprisoned in the jointness of the political power and the demands of the judiciary, and Figen Yüksekdağ, and Osman Kavala, Gültan Kışanak, Adnan Selçaklı, Ahmet Altan, Ahmet Altan, and the names of those who seek freedom? Do you believe that a court of justice, without right, justice, conscience, and integrity, or a judge who guides the universal norms of law will be a justice of a court of prosecutors that violates its professional morality in its interests? Do you share in the suffering of the Aegean, the children who were forced to die by falling into the dark waters of Merich, the children who were forced into the gravediggers of justice, the men who were kept in the freezer, the Dilek Doğan who died with police bullets in his own house, or the killings of those who were shed tears? Are you with the Alevis, who have been cast out of the land they call their homes or slain, who have been driven out of the land they call home, who have been driven from the Armenians, Jews and Greeks, who have been called curses, who have been broken down by the windows of their homes, Christians and Suryaneans who have been destroyed, who have been forced to live in fear, even though they are the citizens of this country, or are you with those who have been forced to destroy this pluralism? Are you on the side of a free world where Ali Ismail Korkmaz, Ethem Sarısuluk, dreams, or of his murderers and defenders? Are you on the side of those who know that Berkin Jon is a child, or am I the one who said, "I gave you the command." Are you one of those who booed his grieving mother? Are you on the side of their mother Saturday who wants her children to have a grave lost in custody, who wants the perpetrators to be tried, or the torturers who lost the children? Do you side with those who shed blood, took from the bodies of poor children, and fought to keep order, or persist in fighting, or insist on calling it peace? Are you on your side with the villagers who were torn apart by warplanes in Roboski, the young men in Suruç, the victims of the life market in front of Ankara Station, the people who were on their way to work or school, the ones who were killed on their way home, or those who were killed in the name of this, or those who gave the orders of these massacres, who didn't want the violence to end? Are you for the racists who want to fire the Syrian refugees who fled the civil war in their country, who support political power, actor, financier and agitator, or are you for those who question the role of political power in this war that compels people to live in exile? Are you willing to fight men's mentality, which is the active mindset of women who are murdered, raped, every day, or I don't already believe in equality between women and men? The woman is overrated, and she will be chaste, and she will not laugh. Is the knife in the hands of the murderers for those who have been shot at?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0246par0422	Complete it, Mr. Sprinkles.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0245par0423	It's obvious when a man has to choose between his interests and his principles. So it's all about the sum of choices that people make or don't make, whether they're what they are or what they're not. Yes, we are the sum of what we choose and what we don't choose, and we live together. Rights, justice, equality, freedom, peace, law and democracy, on the one hand a form of extortion and robbery that feeds on war. Everyone's made their own choice, making their own. It will be your choice that determines how and what we live in or what we live in. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0247par0426	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0248par0427	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0247par0428	A lot of insults beyond political criticism have been used on our party from pickpocketing, shamelessness, theft, robbery, and thalan. I'd like to use our request for a word on that.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0248par0429	Two minutes, I promise. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's not about to cause any more bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0247par0434	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as if you were listening to the speaker here...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0249par0435	Turkey told me about it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0247par0436	Believe me, in which world you live, I find it difficult to understand.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0250par0437	Not in court, but in public.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0251par0438	You tell me which side you're on.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0252par0439	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0253par0440	Someone who's been coming from this stand trying to give a speech while they're free from the tavern.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0254par0442	That's a shame, that's a shame. Disrespectful!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0255par0443	Enter among the people when you are free from court. In your spare time from the palace, look to the people, the people.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0256par0444	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0257par0445	We don't have names like "familiarity" or "robbery" or "robbery" in our language.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0258par0447	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0259par0448	You should apologize! You're going to apologize!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0258par0449	One moment, dear friends... Mr. Mush, please use a clean language.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0260par0451	Every man does his own job, tells his own business. These are your professions, which you are so inclined to use. We don't have them, they're your profession. You've performed your profession here, you've explained your profession here.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0258par0453	One moment, dear friends... Mr. Mush, please use a clean language. [[Noises from HDP rows, knocking on rows]] Dear friends, please... Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0261par0459	Speak cleanly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0262par0460	I demand punishment.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0258par0461	One moment, dear friends... Dear friends, please use a clean language in your speeches. I mean, it's natural to have a tough conversation, but I'd like to make sure we don't have insults. I believe our words to each other must be carefully chosen.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0263par0463	But let him take it back, Mayor.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0264par0464	Let him take it back.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0265par0465	Let the president take it back.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0266par0466	Mr. Mush, I don't think what you said in the first place was appropriate. Please don't talk about...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0267par0467	Please let me speak.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0266par0468	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0267par0469	I know what I'm talking about here. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0268par0471	No, you don't.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0267par0472	I know what to say on the stand.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0269par0474	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0267par0475	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look at the statements he's using, none of our friends here have.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0270par0476	The president apologizes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0271par0477	The president should apologize.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0272par0478	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0273par0479	If everyone's a lawyer, he's a lawyer, and he's a political scientist, he's a political scientist, but if he's so skilled at using those words, then that's where he puts his job.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0272par0481	Dear friends, please be quiet. Not like this.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0273par0482	So my advice to him is to devote more time to Parliament than to the tavern. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0272par0485	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0274par0486	That's not true. We can't accept it, Mayor.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0275par0487	President, process.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0276par0488	He's going to apologize!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0277par0489	In his speech, the president called the state "the murderer."
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0278par0490	Don't talk so much!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0279par0491	Mr. Cora, would you please sit down?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0277par0492	He called people thieves. He's got everyone under suspicion.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0280par0494	Sit down!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0279par0495	Mr. Cora, would you sit down, you have a Deputy Group President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0277par0496	That's not a conversation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0279par0498	Dear friends, please calm down. Mr Cora, what's happening to you? You've got a group vice president there.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0277par0500	Mr. President, everyone's been disrespected.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0279par0501	But you have the Deputy Director of the Group, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0281par0502	You're disrespectful.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0277par0503	Mr. President, the government has been called a murderer!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0279par0504	Mr. Cora, please take your seat, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0281par0505	This is the Deputy Director of the Group. What is the matter with you?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0282par0506	We're gonna be insulted for ten minutes, and we're gonna be quiet! You'll cast all kinds of slanders, and we'll shut up! You're going to throw away all kinds of slander, aren't you? Look at this place, you rascals!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0279par0507	Dear friends, please be calm, be quiet. Dear friends, let's not talk mutually. Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0283par0511	Mr. President, thank you. Congressmans, what the Justice and Development Party's Deputy Director of the Group has said has crossed the line of criticism, it's an insult.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0284par0513	He's not over it, he's barely said it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0283par0514	We certainly don't, and it can't go on like this. That's a harsh insult. This is where he talks when he's free from the tavern. What does that mean?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0285par0515	He needs to be punished. What do you mean? How dare you!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit02spe0283par0516	What kind of a Group Vice President talk is that? Would you like it if we address you in the same way now? He won't. Then neither will you. We absolutely don't accept that. Take a break for that, please, Mr. President, and let this be discussed. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger. I'm expecting the Deputy Group Presidents in my office.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0286par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm just getting the transcripts of Mr. Ahmet Şık. About the debate before closing the merger. After we review those reports, we'll do an evaluation together. I'd like to ask our friends in Kaves to make the report raw. We are continuing with the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area The commission is in place. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Nimethullah Erdoğ...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0287par0068	Mr. President, I want a promise...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0286par0069	Mr. Şık, I'll have your reports brought in, I'll take a look.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0287par0070	No, no, look, everybody heard my speech.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0286par0071	But we're looking at the transcripts.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0287par0072	The Deputy Director of the Group here insulted me by personalizing a general criticism of me.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0286par0073	Mr. Class, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0287par0074	Please let me finish.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0288par0075	Mr. President, there is no such procedure. Is he the vice president of the group? There's no such procedure, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0287par0076	Don't interrupt me! If this Parliament advocates democratic equality, then everyone here has the right to insult the HDP Group every day...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0289par0078	He doesn't have that right. No way!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0287par0079	And while this is not subject to any sanctions, a severe political criticism is not subject to a personal insult. If you're confident, look, there's the stand. You're the vice president of the group, and you talk every day.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0290par0081	Mr. Şık, please sit down.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0287par0082	Please, no...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0290par0083	Look, I'm going over the matter. Dear Nimethullah Erdoğ...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0291par0084	Is there such a procedure, sir? Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0290par0085	Mr. Nightingale, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0292par0086	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0290par0087	Mr. Classy...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0293par0088	And it does, so...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0294par0089	Mr. President, look -- I'm sorry -- the personal insult here doesn't need to wait for a report. Here, process it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0290par0090	Mr. Şık, please, don't interfere with the President's Court's commendation. Mr. Nimethullah Erdoğ, please come in. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0295par0094	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly as I begin my remarks. We're actually conducting our talks together on the day of December 10th about budget talks and human rights. Which, of course, puts us in a great position of responsibility. So, in fact, the budget, the human rights, the law of however, the human rights are kind of interconnected. I want to do a little evaluation on this, on this, on this, because what we call a budget is a measure. What does that measure? The budget measures people's rights and delivers them that way. If there's anything wrong with that measurement, if there's a situation that's going to change the law of how it works, it's going to reduce it, there's a problem that size above all. So if our budget for human rights today really is an exemplary budget on the world scale, there's no objection, but if there's a shortage, then there's a shortage. Dear friends, what's essential is the right and the law of man, the right and the law of society. Of course, the state has many obligations, but state law and human rights and law must never, ever come face-to-face or engage. If such a contradiction exists, we think it's possible to compensate for the contradiction. Look, I want to shed some light on this with an example from history. I want to illustrate here how social politics can come to a solution, even in the most turbulent times of peace politics. You all know very well that there is a great operation against the people; the people are cursed all around; the Emevi dynasty, Emevi rule, the government, the government, the official ideology of power, has surrendered the community on the basis of the idea of Cebriyah. There is oppression, there is violence, and as a result, he tried to dominate society with the ideology of Cebriyya, the belief that this oppression and violence is a destiny, that God has a destiny. In this chaos and turmoil, Omar bin Abdulaziz comes to rule. There's a two-and-a-half-year period of power. The first thing he does is provide budget discipline. What did he do? As soon as he arrived, he sold the mounts of the king's house to the king, which was assigned to the king, to the sultan, to the king's king's king, to the king's king's king, and to the king's king. Then what did he do? After that, he took his wife's ornaments, her jewelry, and gave them to the estate. After that, by applying savings, by applying the savings budget, social politics and so much waste and debacle over two and a half years, the precious friends, historians express it, that now people, the poor, even the poor, have acted as a believer in getting zakat. They saw him as a matter of honor, a matter that the state must resolve. They said, and in the period of Omar bin Abdulaziz, dear friends were freed by buying slaves with money in the alms fund, and that fund was used there. That was his social politics. How was peace politics, Omer bin Abdulaziz? When he comes to the administration, he wants to blend in with the public, and on his first public visit, he's surrounded by a large convoy, police, wildlife, guards, as they call it that day. He turns around and says to those who walk around him, "If you'd like to go out with me and my people first, then he's doing a peace policy in this way. In two and a half years, there is such a policy that he performs his first act in mosques, trade houses, palaces, palaces, on Friday at Friday, when everyone goes to Friday to finish the law -- God commands them to read the verse with justice. So until that day, the cursed people, the generation of the great Prophet, have reinvented their thoughts, their thoughts, their resistance, their attitude and their actions, which represent the resistance of that day. It's not a fate against the algebraic school. What has he done, whether it's the pilgrims or other schools of thought, who say, "It's not fate." And it opened space for them, and in the field of knowledge, in the field of thought, in the field of thought, it solved and completed people's freedoms, justice, both through social politics and peace policy, in two and a half years as an exercise in history. When we say, "I'm out of this chair," we're dealing with a number of accusations that don't add up. Dear fellow Regents, we recently received a valuable deputy from a television program who said, "We need Omar. " Yeah, that's the kind of Omer every power needs. But this is Omar, I'm sorry, he's not an Omar who serves power. This is Omar, who will be an Omar who will teach power what waste is, what persecution is, what injustice is to power, and sooner or later this country will meet them.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0296par0102	Complete.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0295par0103	The last word is, whatever spring this country has in every winter, whatever morning every night, I hope that this country will have justice in its own way. In this way, in a fair order, in an environment of justice, I say we all reach the days when these 82 million people will live in peace on the basis of that equality. I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0296par0106	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party, the final word belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Oya Ersoy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0297par0109	Mr. President, I don't think the reports have arrived, we're waiting, so I'm not going to have that discussion. Now, we'd like to talk about the public budget here on the public bench, but this budget we're discussing is not the budget of the people, 82 million, but the budget of 1 percent. The 2020 budget is a budget that you've made your side clear, a budget that you're looking for a cure for the company that's going down instead of a cure for poverty. In the economic crisis that began in our country as a balance of payments and a foreign currency crisis, your companies are no longer able to pay their external debts. Again, banks have 46 billion bankrupt loans. In short, they're signals of a financial crisis. The budget deficit, which reached 78.6 billion dollars in the first six months of last year, and increased tax rates and deleted tax debts, are clear signals that the state is on the verge of a financial crisis. We're dealing with an economy on the brink of bankruptcy and an unresolved budget proposal. There's no solution because it's not the public budget, it's not the public. There is no solution because the survival of corporations is not the salvation of the people. There is no solution because you have a system of corruption, poverty, and bans, and this order is doomed. But you're still trying to save yourself. In the last 16 years, the farmer's debt has increased 48 times, closing 570,000 tradesmen in the last five years. In just 2019, about 16,000 companies went bankrupt. 6 million 890,000 people in this country are unemployed, 1 million 916 thousand women, 3 million 516 young people are unemployed. The people you condemn to poverty, unemployment, hunger, they commit suicide one after another in despair. Look, one of the greatest indicators of income injustice is taxes. The highest tax workers in this country are getting it. As you reduce the tax burden of companies, you continue to fill the tax box on the back of the public. With what? With indirect taxes like VAT, SVR, and with additional taxes that you've just taken out. Look, there's the biggest social contract these days, minimum wage talks going on. In these talks, the bosses threaten to lay off the workers, take them off the record, and your Minister keeps the bosses in line. The country's largest labour confederacy, DİSK, said the minimum wage should be at least $3,200. Because we say that growth based on price is possible. Just set the budget according to workers, workers, pensioners. Then you won't have to take money from Qatar. Let's get rid of the minimum wage tax. If you remove taxes from electricity, water, natural gas, you will not sink. With much less than the tax debts you've erased from your companies, you'll save the people from the burden of the economic crisis, and you'll only take a small step to save the people. Congressmans, last week we watched parents riot at Nature College. The teachers who couldn't get their money left rightfully. The parents of the school that didn't even burn down the heat filled the schools. Students were deprived of the right to study and study. The number of private schools closed or transferred in 2019 alone is said to be about 200. It is your policy to privatise students from 6,000 to 12,000 private schools in the past four years, which have given them the right to education. Here's nature college. Do you know why the owner of Nature College is collecting money from parents and sinking? Because he's investing the cash in the construction industry, because the problem with corporations is that the public has no right to education. They only have one problem: How much more can we profit, and how can we profit? Now, the Minister of National Education is meeting with private school owners. If we don't close this black hole, we're all going to burn. He says, and he asks the owners of private schools: "Buy nature College. " Another bankruptcy and another lack of resolution. Another bankruptcy project is your city hospitals. You've had another burst in your hands with the gold platter you've been offering to your fellow conglomerates. You're going to pay $870 billion for city hospitals in 25 years, and you're not going to pay for it. Where will this be paid? The public's money will be paid, and new city hospitals will increase this debt by a factor. I'd like to ask you: What happened to the city hospital that was supposed to take place last year in the Ethics, where you announced that it would take place in 2019? What about the public buildings, land and incentives you've assigned to the Italian Astaldi and the Turkiers Holdings? Dear lawmakers, being patriotic is taking care of your country, your people. To keep, protect, and prevent the plundering of all the land we live on, its subterranean and subterranean beings. Patriotism means to love all the people who live in this land, to treat all the people of this country as equals, regardless of language, religion, race, gender, sexual identity. It's about defending your rights and protecting your rights. But with the trustees you've appointed to replace the chosen, you put dynamite in the will of this people to live together, one of the greatest hits. With your policies of war and oppression, you've been putting dynamite in the hope of the people who live together in this geography for centuries, the hope of peace. Dear lawmakers, we spoke about the misogynistic definitions at the Turkish Language Foundation at this budget meeting again last year. Despite one year, those misogynistic words continue to stand in that dictionary. It doesn't just stand there, your word that you've made women second-class citizens from your president to your bureaucrats, your misogynistic policies are causing women to break in this country. Look, even though she wanted protection 23 times, a woman was recently killed by her husband. A man who killed a child and had a record of 12 separate crimes murdered Ceren Özdemir. 391 women were murdered in this country only this year because you did not apply Law 6284 and the Istanbul Convention. Women don't shut up in the streets, we don't fear, we don't obey, we want to live. Know this: As women, we are stubbornly, persistently, women are strong together. We walk in this country to build an equal and free life. Dear lawmakers, neoliberal policies are bankrupt. All over the world, here, people, especially women, are in rebellion against neoliberal policies, authoritarian regimes, and look, we see from the example of Lebanon, where sectarianism and war can't suppress the people's reaction to neoliberal policies. You know what the Lebanese people say on the streets of Neoliberal aggression? All of you." he says. All of you, resign." he says. In our country, there is only one way to save the country from the destruction of the rule of the ruling neoliberal policies with political Islamist policies, and the AKP's rule of plundering, plundering, exploitation policies: First of all, you will return the people to the public. Under the name of public-private cooperation, the capitalizations of which you have mortgaged the future of its people, the future of the children of this country will be removed. Now in this country, inequalities have been made, organized from the top to the top by the government, and no one is equal to each other in their so-called words, not in the house, not in the school, not in the courtroom, not here, not in Congress. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Permission, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0298par0126	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0297par0127	The AKP is not equal to CHPli, Yozgatlı Izmirli, Kurdish Turkish and women are not equal to men. There is no talking about the crumbs of freedom in this country; the press is not free, the university, science is not free; the union, the strike, the collective contract is not free; elections are not free; human rights are not free; human rights are not free; and for future generations in this country are not free; for women's equality and freedom; for Alevis' equal citizenship is vital to not surrender our country to jihadist killers, so the way out of destruction is equality, freedom, peace, peace. It's to establish the sovereignty of the people, not the palace and the corporations. So I'm basically saying it's either socialism or barbarism. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit03spe0298par0130	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've got the transcripts. I'd like to see the Deputy Directors of the Group in my office as well. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0298par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've been talking to our friends about the argument that just happened. Now there will be promises, I promise them. Mr. Şık, is he here?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0299par0006	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0298par0007	Mr. Şık, I'm going to turn on your mic, talk about your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0299par0009	Since the insult is there, I'd like to answer from there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0298par0010	Sir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0299par0011	I'd like to answer where the insult is, so...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0298par0012	You want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0299par0013	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0298par0014	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0299par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, last year I came to the attention of such an argument, because I was never a man who bent my word, and I will never be, and I will never be, and I will never be, and no matter what is done, no one will have any doubt about it. All I'm asking is that you try to listen to what we're saying so you can understand the depth in it. I'm trying to make political criticism here, and I'm not responding to you or you by making it personal in any way. Yes, you're absolutely right, I'm being critical, but I'm trying to take a picture of Turkey. Mr. Mehmet, did you say that we live here in the same place? We feel the same way because you created that kind of Turkey. If you'd come out of your own media and taken a little bit of a pulse from the people on the street or looked at the literature that wasn't included in that system, you'd be facing the reality of the picture we took in Turkey. I stand by my speech just now; I stand by every word, every point, every comma to the end. They're all severe political criticism and identification. Please do not try to deal with people's personal lives, their personal work, their drinking. Fascism mixes with what people eat, drink, and wear, and whoever does it, his name is fascism. Please take care of this. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0300par0023	My dear friends, we must end this discussion somehow. Mr. Mush, you've had some statements. Mr. Şık has made some statements. If there's anything you want to say, I promise you, too.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0301par0025	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0300par0026	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0301par0029	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have almost completed their speech by the time the speaker arrives here, two groups, even their party's group. We listened to everyone very carefully here, until he spoke. I mean, he says he's making a very deep criticism, a political criticism. So those who came and spoke before that did not have any criticism, they could not reveal any depth, they could only put it in himself.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0300par0031	One moment, my dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0301par0032	Now, where's the depth of saying "stealing," dear lawmakers? Where's the depth of being a pickpocket? What is the depth of saying "talan" and "buying bribes"?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0302par0033	If you don't understand, there's nothing we can do.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0301par0034	If you had a depth, you wouldn't be using these expressions. We're not dealing with anyone drinking what they're eating. We'll come to the House next year, count it out here, and then we'll...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0303par0037	It's not like that, it's not like that!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0304par0038	It was an insult, an insult.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0305par0039	One moment, dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0306par0040	I've done political criticism, severe criticism. It's not something we can accept.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0307par0041	You can't talk like that, is that the same thing?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0306par0042	While everyone's being critical, he's going to criticize us by not being fair to us.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0307par0043	We don't agree to this kind of talk. You're repeating your conversation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0306par0044	There are 290 members of the AK PARTY here, and none of my friends have anything to do with these slanders.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0307par0045	No, we don't!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0306par0046	We have 16 ministers in the government, none of which have anything to do with the slanders you've made. You will count your words, and when you have received the recompense, you will say, "He has insulted me."
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0307par0048	You're counting what you say! We don't accept!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0308par0049	If you're uncomfortable, you won't do it, you'll stop it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0306par0050	I'm sorry, but you'll respect our right to answer, and you'll respect our right to express our opinion against what you say.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0307par0052	You'll get it back! You'll get it back!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0309par0053	Guys, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0306par0054	We've never had anything to do with what anyone's been drinking, and we'll never have anything to do with it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0307par0055	You'll get that promise back!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0310par0056	You're repeating the same thing! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0311par0057	What are we gonna do? We'll wear whatever you want, go wherever you want?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0312par0058	You can eat whatever you want, Turkey is a free country, Turkey is a law state. When? You'll protect our rights, our law. I'm sorry. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0061	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0314par0062	He repeats the same sentences, that's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0315par0063	This isn't an apology speech; we won't accept it!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0064	One moment, dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0316par0067	Mr. President, Ahmet Şık is a member of the Justice Commission, not a deputy who comes here once a year.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0317par0068	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0069	Dear friends, please don't let it be mutual.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0316par0070	I mean, it's hard to keep your mouth shut, you know, really pick on people...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0318par0072	Why, what should we do when you play the trumpet? What do we do when you play the trumpet?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0073	One moment, Mr. Ironbone...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0319par0074	Shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0318par0075	Speech! Then it's an insult, what is it?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0076	Dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0320par0077	You're the one who's...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0321par0078	Sit down! Sit down! You dirty man!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0079	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0321par0080	Take that back, who the hell are you?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0322par0081	Who do you benefit from?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0082	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0323par0083	They're breaking tables!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0084	Mr. Ironbone, please, why are you standing up?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0324par0085	If you're talking about it, if you have any ideas...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0086	Mr. Oluç, please complete Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0325par0087	Look at the ruling party lines!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0326par0088	It's like a drum kit!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0089	Mr. Ironbone, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0327par0090	Get out, get out!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0091	Mr. Oluç, I beg you, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0328par0092	This is outrageous!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0329par0093	You can't be so insulting!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0313par0094	Mr. Ironbone... Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0330par0096	The president has taken out the group's craziness, but the gentleman is the one who mixed it up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0331par0098	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0330par0099	Your job is to tease.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0331par0100	You insult me, you insult me, you insult me.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0332par0101	Please, please, please shut up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0330par0102	Your job is to pick on you, only to vote your right hand; you're of no other use.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0331par0104	Mr. President, don't let him. They're insulting me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0333par0105	Mr. President, a congressman is being insulted.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0334par0106	Mr. Survivor, please complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0335par0108	Mr. President, the AKP must also give up this tradition. It's not happening. It's really not happening. It can't just be taken from the vote to the people who are here when they hear the sound of a fight, and it can't be taken away; it needs to be taken care of. Ahmet Şık, our friend, is a member of the Justice Commission, he performs his duties in the House, and the rest of the time, he works as he does the party. The AKP has no right to stand up here and speak to him.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0334par0111	Complete, Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0335par0112	None of us discuss how long the deputy of another group has come and gone, what he's done, what he's done, and it's not true; the AKP shouldn't do that. You know, he sees himself as the owner of this place, so he has the right to say something about everyone, every group, every deputy. It's been ugly, it's not true: if you can find time left from the tavern to come here... it's not good for a group of vice presidents. It still doesn't come up here, but if they look like themselves, there's nothing we can do about it. Ahmet Şık is a deputy of the HDP (HDP). He is the apple of our eye. He is a dear friend of ours. I'm glad you're here, Ahmet Şık. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0336par0116	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0337par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0338par0119	And what else are you responding to, what's there to answer?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0339par0120	Don't insult us, enough!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0340par0121	Dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0341par0122	What are you doing up?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0339par0123	You keep insulting me.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0340par0124	Dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0341par0125	This is outrageous!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0340par0126	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0341par0127	Where did you get these?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0342par0128	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0340par0129	Please, Mr. Mush, let's wrap this up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0342par0130	Just a moment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0340par0131	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0342par0133	Mr. President, right now, we're having a political discussion here. To our congressman...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0343par0135	We're not having a political discussion, you're insulting me.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0344par0136	Where are we having a political discussion?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0345par0137	One moment, dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0346par0138	To our congressman... One second, fellas.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0345par0139	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0346par0140	He calls our congressman the crazy one of the band. Guys, if you're looking for crazy, look at your own group, you don't have that right.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0347par0141	I'm crazy about my case! I am mad in my cause; I am not mad in the house of Kandil; I am not mad in the house of Kandil.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0345par0143	Mr. Ironbone, Mr. Ironbone... Please, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0348par0145	You don't know you're talking.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0349par0146	What the hell is this? What the hell!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0345par0147	Complete.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0350par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0349par0149	What are you looking at?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0345par0150	Dear friends, let's be quiet. Dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0351par0152	I'm crazy about my case. I'm crazy about my case. Don't talk, sit down!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit04spe0345par0154	Mr. Ironbone, please... I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0345par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We are continuing with the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area The commission is in place. Dear MPs, we will now meet the Republican People's Party Group's demands. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first word is for Mr. Cavit Bee. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0352par0069	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to begin by welcoming all of you with a respectful greeting. Dear friends, I'd like to talk about the budget. The 2020 budget envisions 956.6 billion revenue pencils, and a trillion 95 billion in expense budgets. So what does that mean? You're already budgeting for $138.9 billion in 2020. You started with a budget deficit like this in 2019; the budget deficit that started at 80.6 billion TL was created at the end of the year -- the way it's been predicted -- with a $125 billion budget deficit. Dear friends, I'd like to give you a few numbers: the budget deficit in 2017 was 47.8 billion, the budget deficit in 2018, 72.8 billion in 2019, 80.6 billion in 2019; there is a budget deficit that is approaching 125 billion today. Besides, here you would face a budget deficit from the Central Bank of almost 200 billion, even though the reserve money, the zoning peace, the priced military, was not in that figure. Because of these numbers, we're talking about a 125 billion-dollar budget deficit. You predicted 138 billion in 2020, and now, looking at the odds just now, at the end of 2020, an estimated 220 billion-dollar budget deficit is waiting for all of us, dear friends. In 2020, you expect a 2.9 per cent budget deficit. At this rate, we expect a budget deficit of 4.7 percent or 5%. In 2017, there were 56.7 billion interest payments paid in this country -- as an interest payment of interest -- at 56.7 billion, dear friends; in 2018, 74 billion interest payments were paid; in 2019, 103 billion interest payments were paid; in the budget of 2020, you have also envisioned a $138 billion interest payment. So, when you look at these numbers, unfortunately, you're clearly not managing the economy well. We have increased budget deficits year after year, and an increasing interest debt per year. Dear friends, I'd like to give you another number: from 1923 to 2002, the total amount of money spent by all the governments in this country in seventy-nine years is $713 billion. What's been done with this money, dear friends? With this money, you can only finish so far, the Paşabahçe Cam Industries, Eregli Demir and Steel, Alexanderun Demir and Steel, Eti Holdings, Sumerbank Holdings, SEKA, TELEKOM, Oymapınar Dam, fertilizer industry, sugar factories, many plants, shipyards, whatever you count -- all of our values sold by all of you from the republic's ads to 2003 -- were made with $713 billion. Again, the first throat bridge was completed in 1973, and the second throat bridge was completed in 1988. In your day, dear friends, about two trillion and 500 billion dollars have been spent. I'm asking you, where did you spend this money? Where did you spend this $2.5 trillion money, dear friends? I want to know. Look, we've done a lot of work. You're bragging about it, but most of them are projects with public-private cooperation, dear friends. For example, the third throat bridge, the Ottomangazi Bridge, the Eurasia Tunnel, city hospitals and some airports. Almost all of these are guaranteed projects with public-private cooperation, dear friends. What's the meaning of a guarantee? So I'd like to briefly explain to our valued viewers and citizens who are watching us. As a state, you say: "Build a bridge and I guarantee you this much transportation." What happens if that vehicle doesn't pass? If the vehicle doesn't pass, we'll have to pay the difference as a government. What happens in a situation like this, dear friends? Passing this bridge, taking advantage of the hospital, sir, he's paying for it, but what if he doesn't? Here's a citizen who's never seen that bridge in his life, who's never seen that airport, which, unfortunately, has to pay this bill, dear friends.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0353par0074	Otherwise he'll pay interest, interest.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0352par0075	Now, if we want to briefly talk about tourism, exports and tourism have been expressed to have a strong support for the economy. So it's really important tourism, and today the Minister of Tourism is among us. Now, look, dear friends, a sector tourism that's so important, and unfortunately, we've tried to bring a tax of 7.5/ in a thousand with the Tourism Agency that's going to be going to this good sector, and then we've faced a tax of your time, which is the first tax of your time, so you've left the industry with a new tax on both burdens and tourism -- the citizen who's going to stay in the hotel, if it's going to be a burden on the customer. In his presentation of the Plan and Budget Commission in 2019, our Minister of Tourism mentioned 463 beaches, 22 marinas, and in this particular sense, there were several complaints about beaches and the beaches were supported. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary again: In 2014-2019, during the Ministry of Antalya Metropolitan Municipality, did the former mayor, the mayor, during the time of the former mayor, the mayor of Antalya, who had tried to build the world-priced marina, which would have been a serious threat to the Lara band and the coast of Konya under the coast? I wonder if these beaches will be damaged if you do these artifacts here. Dear friends, look, inflation has been announced by 8.6 per cent, but on the other hand, the rate of tax, picture and tuition increased by 22.58 per cent with public goods and services has been announced by you. So this shows that even though with official data, you can explain this inflation by 8.6 percent, inflation, which is officially declared by your own hand, is at least 22.58 percent. Dear friends, I'd like to mention a few things about the trade loan. Look, in our country, about 560,000 tradesmen are getting loan support from their business co-ops. 40 billion dollars in total today, 560,000 if you count it. 560,000 tradesmen today, if we accept that there are 1,800,000 tradesmen, that means that today we have one-third of the tradesmen who have had to carry out their duties with loans, because of you, dear friends. If you call it the state of the executive offices, it's already pathetic; it's one of the most important official agencies that's very difficult to get in because they're full of files. Now, look, in 2017-2018, in the executive offices of 2019, I'll tell you about it, there's an average of 30 million executive files. So today, almost one out of every 2.5 people in the country are in debt of execution. But there are so many files, and if you ask if anyone has been collected, there are so few files that have been collected that are almost destroyed.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0354par0080	Complete, Mr. Bee.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0352par0081	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Again, dear friends, if you call it agriculture, agriculture, our farmer's situation, it's pathetic. Look, for the first time in your time, agricultural electricity, normal, is past the price of electricity used in homes and businesses, so if the farmer wanted to use agricultural electricity before, now look, he's willing to pay more. Today, our farmer will receive 153 billion liras in support from the Agricultural Law. In the Court's reports, dear friends were made clear that there were many mistakes. 3.613 is a failure in accordance with legislation; 2,670 again, a failure in financial management; 9.967 errors in the internal control system were detected by the Court. One of the most important things has been made clear that there are no suitable environments for competition in the tenders.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0355par0086	Mr. Bee, please let's finish, let's finish. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0352par0088	In short, dear friends, it's obvious you don't run the country well. This budget is not enough to solve the problems of the Turkish people, and I'm expressing it to you from here. Thank you all, thank you very much.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0356par0092	This is our Istanbul MP, Mr. Mahmut Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0357par0095	Dear President, I salute you all with respect and respect. I have made a commitment to the budget of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the Public Control Agency. Of course, the ruling party says: "My friend, don't we have a good side?" Yes, we'll tell you what's good about you. A real favour has been done in this country by establishing the Public Control Agency, but during the previous term of President Malkoc -- the Public Control Agency -- has been well introduced to Turkey. At least he tried to introduce this institution, one by one, all over Turkey, about all kinds of actions and procedures of the administration, about our citizens applying for fax, telegrams, letters, petitions. But while you're promoting this, the budget share you've assigned to the Public Control Agency is very low, dear friends. So I guess that's what this is all about: 1) You cut off the budget of the administration's actions and procedures, so that it does not follow, nor is it controlled, nor is it processed.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0358par0097	That's what they did.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0357par0098	I guess that's the point. If you had done this, you could have opened branches in different provinces according to Article 4 of the Public Control Agency Act, because Ankara is based in an independent budget, but you do not increase the budget and give the opportunity to control the actions and procedures of the administration in other provinces of Turkey. We offer suggestions and say the right thing to do, the wrong thing to do.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0359par0099	Mr. Mahmut, you're summing up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0357par0100	The summation, all right. Mr. Ramadan, I'm wasting my time, Mr. President, and I apologize. 2) If all actions and procedures of the state, the administration, are against the law, the citizen will suffer. Just as environmental law requires our citizens to sue for environmental pollution in environmental cases without benefits... And what do we call the Public Inspector's Office, in the name of the people, of all the legal procedures or laws that have been made by the administration? We call the public defender, the public defender, the eye and the ear of the people. Then the Constitutional Court must be granted an individual application, my friend. 3) I say: If your head falls off, call Mahmut Tanal. (Applause from CHP rows), call the Public Control Agency. (Applause) Everyone who has a problem with management in Turkey is looking for the Public Control Agency; let him call because the applications are free. However, he also applied to the Human Rights Review Commission, as he applied to the Public Control Agency, and he also applied to the Proposal Commission, and he also applied to the Association for Equality. Then there's a lack of coordination, and let's get through the lack of coordination, because of this lack of coordination, we need to establish another institution. Another condition is that when he sees an illegal job and action, he must be able to move, without complaint, without application, and that authority should be recognized, dear friends. In the same way, again, what happens if there's no authority here regarding the Public Control Agency? Really, you know, like the Association of Equality, and then let's give them the right to do it, just as they have the right to do it, just as they have the right to do it, just as they have the right to do it, like the Institute for Protection of Personal Data. There are two institutions, I'm shutting down these institutions, I'm moving to Parliament. Dear friends, about the House...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0360par0106	Time's up, Mr. Tanal. Time's up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0357par0107	Time's running out, I'm sorry, but you haven't given me the time. I have to tell the public the truth.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0361par0108	Mr. Levent Sky will give you five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0357par0109	Now, dear friends, here, look, this system...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0361par0110	The band didn't give it to you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0357par0111	Guys, you're talking to me, you're interrupting me, I'm asking you... Look, up until now, we've had our Deputy Group Presidents, other political party representatives, Deputy Group Presidents, sir, you've turned the people into birds. None of you have accepted them. I'll prove it to you scientifically.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0362par0113	Mr. Mahmut, reframe some words.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0357par0114	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0363par0116	Mr. Tanal, I'll add a minute.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0357par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, dear friends, I'm from the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of Laws and Decisions... of course, first we give a written question motion, and they don't answer us. But through the Information Act, I'm being forced into Congress, tweezing information, all public knowledge. Here's the information they've given me-- I'm saying, friend, how many laws have been made in Congress since the day the presidential system came into effect? How many decrees has the presidency made?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0364par0120	Yeah, that's the gist of it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0357par0121	Look, guys, how nice, how many... Here's the Parliament's answer to me: the Parliament has made 41 laws. - He's made 41 laws - but the President has also issued 46 decrees. He says so. (CHEERING) So what does that mean? It's been established, scientifically clear, that you've turned the House into a bird.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0364par0123	Bravo!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0357par0124	Now, dear friends, the salaries of our citizens who work in the House are low, please correct their salaries.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0365par0126	Mr. President, five more minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0366par0127	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0367par0128	Mr. Tanal, salute, complete.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0368par0129	I'm completing it, Mr. President. Now, my request from you, since the House's budget, our citizens, our staff, their salaries are low, correct these salaries. The citizen does the same job, comes in through the same door, eats at the same place, drinks tea in the same place; their salaries are different, their rights are different. I beg you, let's not make an inequality under the roof of the House. What's the difference between the officers who work in the council and the officers who work in the council? They pay different food fees, friends. Have fear of God. So the same staff, they eat in the same mess hall, they pay different fees. This isn't the right thing to do. I've been a congressman for four semesters, and the House doesn't run out of construction. What are you doing with all this money? Why is it every day construction, construction, construction? It's a shame, isn't it? What contractors do you give it to? Another problem, so God forbid he shows us again, on the night of the July 15th coup, we were here, we went to the bunker. It's supposed to be a bunker.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0369par0135	This is very important, Mr. President. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0370par0136	Enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0368par0137	It's really important, Mr. President, I mean it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0371par0138	Mr. Tanal, let me add one more minute.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0370par0140	I mean, he's leaving in five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0371par0141	Mr. Tanal is one of the most hardworking MPs in the House. Let's give him a minute, but let's not carry this to our other friends. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0370par0143	Is he going to talk about mediation?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0372par0144	Thank you very much. I won't be long, I'm sorry. Dear friends, my esteemed commissioner, my esteemed MP, let's go to this bunker together, the color of this bunker's wall, the color of its ceiling, the color of its base, the color of its stairs. So if you want to go to the shelter, no one gets destroyed by the action that's going to be done -- God forbid -- but there are stairs down there, people crushing each other -- so they're going to roll over, they're going to fall because the eyes don't notice, they don't feel. I said that the bunker was built, so I should go check it out -- like I'm the head of the House, so I went and checked it out, and I was really falling there. I was asking you, Mr. President, to check in at your convenience. I don't know what kind of contractor the House really has in it, what kind of money...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0373par0148	Let's complete...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0372par0149	Yeah, we're against the budget. It's not the public budget, it's not what the public wants, it's not giving 3,600 additional indicators; it's not being given teachers, it's not being given cops, it's not being given imams, it's not being given pensioners, but what do you do, it's going through here with finger power. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects. [[Applause from CHP rows]] But I won't say anything else, I've seen Mr. Zülfü Bey: Mr. Zulfü Bey, someone has said that he's crazy. You said that he's crazy. You said that he's not going to go into the Parliament. I'm asking you to let smart people in.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0374par0153	It's the bad word, my dear.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0375par0154	Yes, dear friends, now it's time for our Istanbul MP, Mr. İbrahim Özden Kaboğlu.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0376par0156	Mr. President, I don't know if those who export the most important constitutional professor of Turkey, Ibrahim Kaboglu, will be embarrassed today.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0377par0157	Sit down! Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0375par0158	Mr. Kaboglu, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0378par0159	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the Constitutional Court and Court budgets of the Court of Appeals of the Council, the Council members, the MPs, the Central Board of Directors of 2018, the Final Account Law Proposal of 2020, and the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2020. In short, the Constitutional Court is an organ that oversees the normative use of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the Court oversees it on behalf of the TBMM. In this case, Turkey is the Grand National Assembly, which determines here. I'm going to consider the matter in three stages, in terms of the current Constitution, in terms of implementation and in terms of constitutional regulation. A lot has been said under the first title -- what's the situation on the constitutional plane -- so I'm going to settle for a few sentences. The Constitutional Court, which supervises compliance with the Constitution, supervises whether the laws voted here were done according to the Constitution's word and essence, according to respect. The international agreements, which are not limited to the Constitutional text, are also part of the audit criteria, where Turkey is a party. In this respect, the denial of human rights violations in the 71st year of Turkey's approval of the 65th, Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a human rights crime partnership. I'd like to point that out. The Constitution shall be used by the Constitutional Court and the Constitution shall be well understood in this regard. The Constitutional Court oversees separate governments by the definition of the Constitution, and establishes the assurance of the rights and freedoms that form a whole. In this respect, the Constitutional Court and the Court are on the axis of the trilateral function that determines the judicial-democracy relationship. Judgement is the factor of democracy, the actor of democracy, and the coach of democracy. The situation is quite different in terms of practice and reality. The Constitutional Court oversees it too late, is satisfied with the minimum supervision, but has never, for example, audited the presidential decrees that have damaged or corrupted our constitutional system. This is a serious negligence. This is a violation of Article 2 of the Constitution, especially when the parallel legislative phenomenon is taken into account. It's inadmissible, and these decrees are the decrees that upset the state structure. While the Court has reduced its control of efficiency and activity control from the plane to a simple performance control, the category of transactions, the category of institutions, which is kept outside the Court's control is becoming increasingly common, and this, of course, is a severe blow to the rule of law. The control of the asset fund remains on paper, and the control of Tourism, Promotion and Development Agency is excluded. Therefore, it is against the state of law. Beyond that, it is also a matter that we do not know how much control of the 1st party, even though we see in the municipalities of the 2th party, for example, the Court's supervisor.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0379par0164	There are trustees at the third party.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0378par0165	Yes, there are trustees at the third party. It is likely that the 4th party is not being inspected. Now, here, by means of the Constitutional Court, of course, by means of trustees, the trustee is essentially to take the governor's job because the governors are appointed governors to the provinces according to Article 126, which means to shift to 127, not to the governor. Now, the reason for the Constitutional Court's existence -- the 4th court in our Constitutional Court in Europe -- is that the policy should be put under the reins of the law. Politics is enforced within the framework of the law. Now, a very important problem for us here is whether this arrangement, which is called the government system of the presidency, is the parliamentary regime or the presidential regime, which is called the monocracy? Article 2, as it is known, the democratic state of law, the common denominator of our republic's constitutions, is a secular and democratic social law state based on human rights. Is it appropriate or not? The Constitutional Court must decide on this matter. It is the historical duty of the Constitutional Court to contribute to this, indeed in the constitutional and legal plane, the policy that leads to a double state of emergency in the law, because it resists to avoid normalisation. Yes, and after mentioning that, what does it mean, now, in terms of the constitutional arrangement? Before stressing the need for constitutional regulation, the constitutional ones must be specified. Because this requirement is as necessary in terms of the Constitutional Court and the Court as it is in terms of Parliament, because the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is unable to meet the requirements of the 7th Article, which is used under the Constitutional Article 104. This is the clause that stipulates the ban on the ban on the law enforcement authority. The Constitutional Court must be strengthened, especially in accordance with the requirements of legislation, the conduct relationship, and in accordance with the requirements that arise from it, especially in advance, and the matter of control and organ must be accepted. The Court should not be satisfied with the strengthening of aqueduct control in an arrangement with no political control over the administration, but with the control of the unsupervised areas. The main thing, of course, is that the Constitution is rewritten in light of the minimum needs of the democratic legal state, in light of our modern savings and national experience. Because as a whole, he has confirmed the unsustainable feature of the constitutional arrangement, which indirectly raises legislation and judiciary in one person. The 2017 Constitutional amendment, which is a complete stranger to Turkey's political and constitutional development and is trying to reverse its routine, is foreign to the common denominator of the republic's constitutions, which is foreign to Article 2 (also known as the Constitutional Constitutional Constitutional Constitutional Constitutional Constitutional Law), which is foreign to Turkey's political and constitutional development. Indeed, in light of the rules, institutions and values, despite the impacts, cuts and breaks, the process of constitutionalism is significant: limiting power and securing freedoms. In this regard, the 2017 crack is foreign to the break of the Ottoman-Republic and contradicts it. In this respect, the criticism of those who describe it as "monocracras" and the actions of those who use the term "governmental system" are in fact consistent because what they do is the confirmation of the personalisation of power, which they send to one person at a time, and it shows that the regime is temporary. In this regard, it is wise to refer to the general president's position and allied fetishism. In parliamentary talks, the Constitutional Court and the Court's audits are difficult, as the MPs, in accordance with their oaths, to introduce the person's reference instead of the Constitution and the rule of law reference. According to the status of neutrality here, it is decisive that the President has returned to the party's presidency despite the Constitution's rulings. The party's chairmanship undermines the fundamental and general attribute of legislation, as well as the implementation of many of the Constitution's chief judges. The Cumhur Alliance, founded after the constitutional order that was destroyed by the slogan of the government, is being used to prevent qualified lawmaking through the right of opposition, undermining the principle of autonomy living. The initial discrepancies do not end with this, but the fact that the vice president and ministers, in terms of the process and actions of their new constitutional position, continue to engage in political activities, and as an unelected person, the use of the Vice President's power of power of power of power of power of attorney is actually a confirmation of the partisan state implementation, just as the Constitution constitutes a violation of Article 2. In fact, these are confirmed by political attitudes and practices before and after the 15th of July.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0380par0173	Complete it, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0378par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. The following is: After the 2003 Sci Board Act on TÜBITAK, which was changed to the appointment of members of the Prime Minister, and the 2010 Constitutional Amendment, what did they want and what did they not want? The confession came. Now the Allied smear campaign will no longer hold to defend the 2017 amendment, which has been imposed under the largest mass murder in the history of the world's law and state of affairs. We can't know who's on the lists of extensions to the PKK on February 22, 2017. The age is burning with the dryer, and we have set up a commission for it. On March 22nd, the Deputy Prime Minister (MIT) prepares the lists. After the April 16th vote, we'll fix them. He said. On June 6th, the prime minister said we raised the support of 31 per cent in 70 days to 51 per cent. June 23, 2019: The list of voters who are on these additional lists cannot be elected.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0380par0177	Complete, add one more minute, please wrap it up, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0378par0178	Mr. President, there's been some bullying. One more minute, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0380par0179	Mr. Kaboglu, I've added one minute, please continue your conversation. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0378par0181	Now, with all this in the open, those who want to legitimize monocracy now continue again to target and deal with the right to live by the words of a so-called scientist, or by the words of a country divider, to justify illegal practices in this period. I don't deal with them. (HPP, HDP and GOOD PARTI) My associate, as a lecturer, had 69 rectors appointed by the Cumhur Alliance, and none of them had any foreign publications; 71 have no interest; I alone have a number of publications in foreign languages -- up to 90, from French to Persian, and perhaps more than 100.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0381par0184	Shame on them, shame on them! Shame on those who expel Turkey's most important scientist.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0378par0185	Mr. President, let me finish my words.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0382par0186	Finish it, finish it, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0378par0187	Thank you. So the measure of patriotism is here, and if it's science, it's science. If the laws we're voting here violate the country's historical, natural, cultural integrity, if one violates the integrity of freedoms, social rights and environmental rights, if it undermines democracy and the state of law, I would like to remind them that they've been drinking on the basis of Article 81, not in communities, but in public scientific environments, if it's the country's separatism, on national scale and on the whole life of the human rights. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Therefore, the Constitution is fundamentally not to commit crime, to defend law is complementary; to commit a constitutional crime is fundamentally divisive. Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0383par0193	This is Mr. Cetin Osman Budak, our MP from Antalya. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Budak, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0384par0196	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our Minister of Tourism is here. The tourism industry began its journey in Turkey in the 1970s, a business that continued to be built in the 1980s, with a history of about 40 years and hundreds of flows. Why are we face-blowers? Because there are workers there, there are investors there, and especially investments on our pearly beaches. So I thank them from the night manager to the busboy, from the heart and soul, because they set a record this year. So it's our duty to congratulate them. But we're going back, and with Mr. Secretary here, we can't always catch him, so I'm going to ask him a few questions. First of all, last year's budget was reduced from such a level to 537 million today, so 10 percent. We've heard no explanation from you. If the budget hadn't been reduced like this, it would have been more than 1 billion dollars -- 1 quadrillion dollars -- the industry's biggest need would have been for promotion, promotion. Well, yesterday Mr. Fuat Oktay said that tourism is the most important, most valuable sector in closing our current deficit. We're expecting $29 billion this year, and we're expecting $34.3 billion next year. Is that okay? We'll all see it together, but I'll tell you this: there have been some developments in the tourism industry that can't be achieved. First, a fund was brought under the name of the Information Agency, without consultation with the sector. There's private law on one side, there's public law on the other. You collect by private law, and you spend by public law. And who oversees this income? He oversees private control institutions. That wasn't enough -- I think it came out in the month -- three months later again, two percent of the stay tax was brought in during budget talks. These are actually VAT-like taxes. The housing tax in the world -- Mr. Minister knows very well -- is given to local governments, at least half to local governments, but there's nothing like it here. You're pulling down a highly developed, well-placed industry to cover the gaps of the treasure. It's a shame you're doing this with a minister of the industry. I mean, I don't know what reason it is to be in the way that the industry needs to be developed, especially in this crisis, during the financial crisis.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0385par0202	Let's talk about digs, digs.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0384par0203	Look, you come in here, we tell them, we answer them, don't worry.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0386par0204	Mr. Budak, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0384par0205	In recent months, the number of facilities that have been sold has reached 1,750. That's all I could find. So there's a distance from the industry. You need to move them away from that sector, in fact, more active, towards proliferation, and spread the entire tourism sector to Anatolia. If we have to go any faster, the sector's input costs have gone up to a level that won't happen again. While we're waiting for backup around here, we're back in business. We have a situation here with the tourism workers. If you remove your staff loads in the housing industry, you can only remove it from the sector on one condition. If you say, "Do not remove it." He will not have to employ his qualified employee for six months and remove it for six months. Now, I'm going to ask the Minister one more question. Last week at the Resort Congress, I saw the Minister, ten or fifteen days ago, a convention in Antalya. Tourists came from all over Turkey and the world. There were protocol talks, and then the Minister made an hour's presentation. One, the tourism budget is being lowered; two showed that there was an incredible load brought to the sector by the painting, Mr. Secretary, and he presented there for more than an hour. When the whole industry was there, when there were people from the world, he left the hall after finishing his presentation. If you don't listen to the industry, you can't create solutions to the industry. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Another question, Mr. Secretary: The TURSAB elections were held last week.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0387par0211	Mr. Budak, I'll add a minute, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0384par0212	Thank you. The TURSAB elections were held last week. The previous president was re-elected and, of course, the same administration continued. There's a claim, Mr. Secretary, that he's been in the press today, and we'd like to ask you to explain this: you were told that you were interviewing the opposition group at your position before the TURSASA elections. If that's true, I'll prove that the minister's power is being used in democratic elections, and if that's not true, I'm here to apologize to you. There is another issue after the election: Elections are over, and it is said that you now have three inspectors in TÜRSAB, and inspectors are conducting inspections. Of course you will, of course, institutions are designed to be audited, to be audited to do a better job, but it's doubtful that three auditors will be sent right after the election. It is also said that you have also sent Treasury inspectors to the private enterprises of the current president, the president of the TÜRSAB. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Budak, I beg you. Are these claims true, Mr. Secretary? If these allegations are true, it's a disaster. So in this business, you're actually a very well-informed person, and you have a tour operator company, and you have housing companies, and you have hotels, but you're also competing against the industry. Could this be a fair competition? Who can argue that such competition is not a one-sided competition? At the same time, you can't talk about freedom there if you put pressure on the institutions with the power of the state. Tourism, democracy, tourism, freedom. When people come from the world to this country, they seek democracy, they seek freedom.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0388par0218	Let's salute Mr. Budak.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0384par0219	That's why I put it here. Thank you for listening, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0388par0221	This is Mr. Sera Kadıgil, our Istanbul MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Kadigil.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0389par0224	Mr. President, members, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party in the 2020 budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly. Now, I've been listening to you all morning, Congressmans, every time we get here, he praises our exports, and he talks about the extraordinary success of our cinema films, and we appreciate it, and we congratulate it, and even with this, I think we're all very proud of Mr. Bilginer's reward. On behalf of the Council, once again, I congratulate him here. There's also someone, you love them, I brought them for you because there's no leftist, leftist, opponent or anything like that, the star of the Neoosmanist shows where we're pouring money into the TRT, the Jön Turk, Engin Altan Düzyatan. That's how I want to show both artists here, because I'm going to tell you about a problem that hurts both artists and not only celebrities, but non-famous people. I'm going to come and tell you that our actors, our actors, our artists, are not entitled to a dime of royalties on our shows that we're so praised here, and if you'll excuse me, we're the ones responsible for it. Look, these people -- I'm going to show them again -- in a lot of TV stations, in a lot of places, in a lot of hotels, in a plane, in a lot of places, they're shown over and over again, and none of these people get a single penny of royalties from their work. All the networks eat the bread of this job, the directors who own those films, the writers who write them, the actors who live up to these characters that we love, they don't get a dime from us, dear friends. Why? Because not the laws of our Parliament, but the laws of the jungle apply in these television and cinema fields. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, I'll tell you something interesting: do you want to do business in the cinema or on TV in Turkey, you'll take two things from the top. One: my brother, you may be dying from morning to night because I'm going to do a hundred and eighty minutes of soap opera, it doesn't matter, you can't retire from this sector if you don't pay the premium yourself. There's an Amir's decree -TRT Director is here. Let's ask you, Mr. Minister, if you're going to make these artists insured. The state's television doesn't fit the state's law; how do we expect it from other producers, other networks, I'm really curious about that. Second thing: Whether you're a Haluk scholar or a celebrity, you can't go after the work you've created. It tells us that this system and because we haven't changed our copyright laws, these people continue to be exploited like this. Only I don't know that, and the Ministry knows that very well. So not three, not five, look, we've been working on the royalties law for ten years, but for ten years we haven't been able to get a leg of barley, I'm afraid, dear friends. Look, Mr. Secretary, our supports have increased, our movie support has increased, our theater support has increased -- let's just say it's true -- I thank you for that, but we say we've saved 37 million for the cinema this year. Look, there's a movie called Little Things, a real movie with a problem with life, not a tollbooth job, and it's in 100 theaters, and it's very well watched by people. At the end of a week, whatever happened, it fell into four halls. You didn't open your mouth and say a single sentence. We've opened cultural centers. You say, it's in presentations. The Ankara Union Theatre, which you just opened in Malatya, has been banned from water for a reason. It's not just him, it's your story of the Levent Grapeman, it's your story. The Cansu Baker plays in "The Letters to Taranta Babu," it's banned everywhere. So you're saying that we're giving 6 million to the theaters, we've increased the support. You can't be too convincing when you're opening your mouth and you're not making a statement about these censorships, these public censorships. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, now, I'm looking at the entire Ministry's 2020 budget, totaling 5 billion. I'll put tourism aside, my dear friends, that's not over $2 billion, no matter how much the court's reputation is for cultural art. There's a world standard for this, it says: you're going to divide 1 per cent of the general budget, so we have to allocate at least 10 billion dollars to this area. We split a billion or two, and then you expect us to appreciate it. Although you've made the country so sad that people can't really think about theater or cinema because of the rush of feeding their bellies. Thanks to you, it's been a long time since I've been through a painting, a statue. I'm afraid it's a luxury now, Mr. President, to read books from imported papers, since you don't leave a paper-making factory. You've sunk the country so badly that every time I ask you why there's so little money for art, people who can't breathe because of the economic crisis turn to me and get mad at me: "What, you don't have any more problems in this country?" I'm thinking, are you right, or, for example, are these critiques justified? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm gonna need another minute.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0390par0240	Go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0389par0241	So you're cutting off art, and you're really passing down art to the welfare of the nation? For example, do you create jobs for young people with this kind of money? Do you give to the farmer, and to the animal maker, whom you have planted fig trees in his stove, what you have increased from art? No, guys, you're just after luxury again, you're after waste again, you're after friendly fattening again. Look, we've put the whole theater, the theater, do you know how much you support in a year? $45 million. On the other hand, let's turn around, you're building an airport in the middle of nowhere, where you're making another $160 million that you're going after these companies under the insurance of passengers, four times as much as the incentives we've seen in art. So how do I make the rich richer, the poor more obedient? I don't see any other problems in this budget. That's why I think you're afraid of art. And you know very well that no matter what you do with the power of art and artistry to awaken the masses, you can't control art.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0390par0242	Let's bow.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0389par0243	My last three sentences, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0390par0244	Let's bow.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0389par0245	I'll say hi, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0390par0247	I'm giving you time to salute, Mr. Kadigil.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0389par0248	You're knowingly making the mistake of every tyrant in history, and if we squeeze hard, then one day the free art will give up and drown. But let's not forget, dear friends: when there is no more art left to show the people the truth, we will still revolutionize, and history will write us. While everyone remembers the name of Brecht, the name of Nazim, no one will remember them, nor will they remember them for their stubbornness. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0390par0251	In turn, Mr. Özcan Purçu, our Izmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Purçu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0255	Mr. President, my dear fellow congressmen, our dear citizens, I give you all my love. It's December 10th Human Rights Day. Happy Human Rights Day, everyone, except the Roma. For we have no rights; we have no right to live, we have no right to dwell, we have no right to education; we have no right to live humanly, we have no right to live honorably. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let me tell you a little bit about the research of our professors and academics in the Sociology Department of Mersin University. 39% of the Roma living in Turkey have no washing machines, no television, no electricity. So we're going through 1,700, friends, and the Roma are going through 1,700. You made a Roman Strategy Action Plan, and it stayed on the table. Look, the Roma continue to live in tents - in the 1700s - no electricity, no water.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0392par0259	The AKP doesn't know about this!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0260	Look, Mr. Secretary, where's your strategy plan? He's at the desk, your strategy plan's on the table. Look, look at the kids, they stay in tents, they can't go to school, look. 46% of the Roma can't read or write. You didn't even go out in the field and do any research, shame on you, shame on you! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President said, "It's not a saving of dignity." What is that, not dignity? The citizen stays in the tent, is that a reputation, for God's sake? Does this suit the Republic of Turkey? Did you look at these people when they set up the budget? Shame on you! There are 6 million Roma citizens, 6 million; half of them are like that, half of them are like that. Story to action plan, strategy plan... You know what you did? You didn't go down to the field and apply the strategy plan, look, it's in the paper. As of December 2018, you'd build a dwelling for those who didn't go to the tent, for those who couldn't go to school, for those who lived in barracks there, ah, here, if you'd like to read it, you don't even know it, you don't know it! You changed the bureaucrats and kept changing them. You went to the elections, you cheated, you asked for votes. (HPP) You said "Glory," but you ignore these citizens. These people live off the books, 96 percent of them work off the books. We're not even on the record, guys. Shame on you! Shame on the government's plans, their projects! You owe the novels money, you'll do it. They're our citizens. There are no Roma, there are no poor, there are no poor, there are no workers, there are no pensioners, there are no officers, there are no rich people. You're erasing the tax debt of those rich people who don't pay their taxes, and that's what's in the budget. There are those companies in the budget that you guarantee buying, those construction companies. Can't you guarantee these people a life, or have you no money to build a dwelling? Don't you have enough money to build a dwelling? Believe me, we didn't see a thing in your conscience. You said, 'We love the Romans.' You said, 'They're all in the field.'
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0393par0264	There's Özcan Purçu in that budget.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0265	Özcan Purçu is at the Republican People's Party, you don't have it, you don't have it. For the first time in the history of the Republic, Özcan Purçu became a member of Ataturk's party in Turkey. You made a congressman four years later, you gave him no authority, he doesn't work, he doesn't do anything, he can't even come in here and give a speech.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0394par0267	Mr Purçu, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0268	Look, my party gave me time to talk on the first budget day. It's not like you're giving the congressman over there a line of speeches. Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0394par0270	Mr Purçu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0271	They've been living here for thousands of years, in this country. We live on this Anatolian land. We've been brothers to everyone, we love our flag, we love our state, we love our nation.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0395par0272	We don't doubt that.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0273	We want respect, we want to live humanly. You say, you say, you do nothing.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0396par0274	Don't get personal.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0275	Look, according to the Roman Strategy Action Plan... there are 30 college graduates of Roman. Two years ago, the government hired them temporarily, and two years later, you laid them off. You phoned the other day and told the Ministry to pick up the Roma's college graduates as cleaners. Do you think college-educated Roma are worthy of just cleaning up? That's your understanding, that's your understanding!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0397par0277	Mr. Purçu, I'll give you one minute to greet.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0278	Mr. President, I beg you, one more minute...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0397par0279	I gave it to you, go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0280	Okay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0397par0281	I mean, we're doing it without you asking.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0282	Four years ago, you opened the Institute for Roman Language and Culture Studies at Thracian University, opening the Roma Application and Research Center at Adnan Menderes University. They haven't picked a lock, they haven't gone down to the field yet, and they haven't done any research. Get me one of the research results from the archives on the novels, tell me anything you want. You don't go in the field, you don't go in the field. You're talking, no. Look, the people of YIT are waiting, and there is no; the Roma are waiting, and the workers are waiting, and the workers are not. I wonder what you're doing with that budget. I'll tell you something else...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0398par0285	Let's salute Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0391par0286	The last sentence, Mr. President. Look, the palace has $5 million a day cost, so save a month for those Roma, that's 150 trillion. Let's build a dwelling, let them not live in a tent, and that's what I suggest. I give you all my love. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0399par0291	Friends, please... my dear friends, let's keep the peace.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0400par0292	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0399par0294	Just a second, Mr. Mush. Dear friends, please... Look, there's a promise demand, and I'm going to do it. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0401par0298	Mr. President, in his orator talk, he has made a statement about our party, about our Roma citizens, and that our MP is not working, that he is not in the field. Cemal wait, our congressman will answer.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0402par0299	I didn't use a name, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0399par0300	I'll give you two minutes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And tell them what you have done before you make any argument.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0403par0305	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council with respect and love. Friends, our Deputy Ozcan Purçu has made his speech, and he said that human rights, he said that the AK PARTY didn't do anything about the Romans. The EC PARTY didn't do anything about them. It's simply ingratitude, friends. (AK PARTY) He knows very well himself, and the party in this country is called the AK PARTY. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The party's name is AK PARTY, with Allah's permission!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0404par0308	Bravo!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0403par0309	Our leader, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, can't go out in front of seven duvets and violate my Roman brother's rights! He who chews finds me before him. He said, "My friends." [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Not enough, our Özcan Deputy criticised our strategic action plan.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0405par0312	What happened in Sulukule?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0406par0313	What happened in Sulukule?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0407par0314	Let's be quiet.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0408par0315	Thanks, guys. We're open to criticism, but they ask the man: What did you do? What did you do for the Romans? You can't tell me. We know you from Izmir, and we know your understanding of local management; we know you from Thrace, from the children of Roma who work in Istanbul, from the city.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0409par0316	What happened in Sulukule, in Sulukule?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0410par0317	What happened in Sulukule?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0408par0318	Guys, the Roma know exactly who's doing what they're doing. They don't say in vain: they talk, they make AK PARTY.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0411par0320	It's old, it's old; it's old.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0412par0321	Mr. Wait, finish up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0408par0322	Just ten years ago, if there was a society in this country where a president could come out and apologize, it was my Roma brothers. When no one could imagine what he would say, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan did this, and unfortunately, what was done for the Roma today -- I consider it a bottom -- was all done during the EK PARTI administration period. My brother, my dear deputy, has a point. We've come up with strategy action plans, we've written action plans.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0413par0323	It's on the shelf, on the shelf.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0408par0324	What we did in the Ministry of Culture, let's come and tell him what we did in the ministries, and I'll tell him here in front of the High Assembly, in front of our people, in front of our people, once again: we are open to consultation, we are ready to make policy with common mind. Let him come, let's do what he wants with us as two Roman children, but let him tell me. AK PARTY municipality...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0414par0326	Let's bow, let's salute.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0408par0327	Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0414par0328	We salute now. I've extended your time.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0408par0329	Thank you very much. Let him tell us what CHP has done here in local municipal affairs; let him tell us how many Roma children are not involved... let the Roma children go into the municipality, and Özcan will not be able to enter the municipality.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0414par0332	Let's say hello, Mr. Wait.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0408par0333	I thank you very much. We're ready, friends, we're confident of our policies. With the permission of my Lord... we are open to cooperation... if necessary... with our brother Ozcan. Have a good day, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0415par0336	Are we doing ethnic discrimination or Romance here? Whose House is this?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0416par0337	Guys, let's be quiet, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0417par0338	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0416par0339	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0417par0340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We know Roma as people of emotion and love, we love them very much, and we -- we don't think it's right to discriminate because of them, but one fact is, we have two members of the Council of Roma. After Ozcan Purchu had expressed the needs of the Roma from the government, from the state, from the social, cultural, economic demands, the Romans had no need. I don't mind what they said, but the Roma do.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0418par0342	I didn't use that expression.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0419par0343	Look, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0417par0344	However, I serve more for the Romans than for the Roma, and it was a good thing for the Roma to say so, but it had to be done in kindness. Cemal Bey jumped there, and said to Mr. Purchu, "He's a coward. The Romans don't call each other thankless." It's an open taunt. We demand a two-minute word from Mr. Purchu, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0346	Here's what we're gonna do. [[From CHP rows, they sound like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0421par0349	These are the representatives of the Turkish nation, the representatives of the Roma?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0350	One moment, my dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0422par0351	Mr. Purchu insulted our deputy. He didn't do anything!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0352	My dear friends, just a second... but look, let's wrap this up. Mr. Purchu, would both of you please come to the front with your Group Presidents? [[AK PARTI İzmir MP Cemal Wait and CHP MP Özcan Purçu]] [[Applause]] Dear friends, can we please be quiet? My dear friends, we've heard the speech of my Roman brothers, our two brothers here. As Acting Speaker of Parliament, I would not like for our two Roma brothers to be fighting each other in front of the Assembly, because everyone sees and sees the situation of the Roma in Turkey, the solution proposals for them, what can be done. All we desire is that all our Roma brothers and sisters be resolved. I believe that each of our two Roma brothers is acting in the same way, with the same enthusiasm at the point of solving these problems. Now, I expect you to finish such a painting. Mr. Purçu, do you wish to renegotiate before the words of Mr. Wait and speak, or shall we settle this matter in silence?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0423par0359	At least the packing speech, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0360	Then I expect you to have an extremely tidying conversation. Gather your speech on a plane where no one will be hurt by our Roman brothers. And let's not get ahead of ourselves, calmly, without too long.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0424par0363	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I am here defending the rights of the Roma, Mr. Cemal defending the rights of the AK PARTY. That's the difference here. (CHEERING) It really is. Look, folks, if there's an ingratitude here, there's ingratitude for not serving these citizens, there's ingratitude for ignoring these citizens, there's ingratitude to these citizens for not leaving the budget, and I'll tell you that for once.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0365	Pack it up, Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0424par0366	Indeed, as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, you all have debts and children. We can't even go out this winter, we can't get our feet out, but those Roma live in the cold, in Ankara's cold, in the negative 6, in the 7, in the nylon greenhouse tents. Do you have a conscience to keep the citizen of the Republic of Turkey in tents, to keep him alive? (CHEERING) Say that. You didn't take part in this budget, but in the next budget, for your children, for your women, give them a cut of the budget, at least for building housing and schools, and that's a debt to your neck. My respects, my love.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0369	Well, thank you, thank you. All members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are with our Roma brothers.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0425par0371	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0372	Mr. Wait, please give me a summing statement, for the record. That's where you can hear it; come in, state your point.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0425par0374	First of all, in the presence of the entire Assembly, I know very well that our Özcan MP and I represent a poor, lonely society struggling with poverty, and the priority of both of us, the group that we represent, the Roma -- as a Roma child -- I also have the right pride of speaking here -- to raise the level of prosperity.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0375	Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0425par0376	I have no concern for the sincerity of our Özcan Regent, which we are prepared to work with authority and common mind. We're open to criticism and common sense. But let's make it clear that you have to tell me what happened. So today, during the AK PARTY...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0378	Complete, Mr. Wait.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0425par0379	You will ignore for years... it would be unfair for us to ignore both the Roma and the nation... in front of our great nation as MPs... to ignore what the EC PARTI has done here, to ignore what our President has done here... but I, my deputy and I, have always been open to the common mind... to the debate to solve the problems of the Roma. Let our nation know that we will do everything we can with brother-sister law until the end.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0381	Okay. That's what you'd look like. And we love you all very much.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0426par0383	Mr. President, one sentence...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0384	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0426par0385	You'll say: "Where did it come from?" But one sentence, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0386	But let's not get in the middle of this, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0426par0387	No, I'm not interrupting, sir, not at the point of interference. One sentence, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0420par0388	One sentence, please, and our time has gone too far.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0426par0389	He's not at the bull's-eye. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale. I think it would be helpful if we could end this conversation by reminding them of the 80th Amendment of the Constitution under the roof of the Parliament alone. Of course, everyone was born somewhere, in a community, somewhere, in a city. No one can deny this reality, but we've asked it to be written at this point by reading the nation's representation clause as a general sensibilities. The members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey represent the entire nation, not the district they were chosen for or themselves. The expression is extremely important. At this point, I think it would be much better if we talked about this sensitivity in all the discussions we're going to have.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0427par0393	Thank you. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's time for you to take the stand. Mr. Mürsel Alban. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Alban.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0428par0457	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the 2020 budget of the Ministry of Tourism and Culture. I salute the High Council. Mr. Minister of Tourism drew a picture in his presentation on the Commission that when he looked at that pink painting... Ten years ago, the number of tourists came to our country was $242 per person, but ten years later, 39 million tourists came to our country in 2018, and Turkey left $617, $125 less per person. Tourism is not developed by increasing number of tourists. For example, there can be a lot of income with fewer tourist inputs, such as Britain, Germany, Japan. We have entered six countries with many tourists. You boast, Mr. Secretary, but we have not been able to enter the first 10. You're a failure at this, Mr. Secretary. When it was looked at, you didn't do any transactions on disaster tourists because of Thomas Cook, you didn't support them, you didn't solve their problems, but you turned that tourist into a mole, you brought a 2 per cent deposit tax under the name housing tax. You put a tax burden on that tourist's budget -- 7.5 per thousand. How do you say we're good at these things, Mr. Secretary? But there's one thing you're good at, and I want to tell you about it, against your face, you're very good at it. Because the world-famous blue journey began -- which was called the Halikarnas Fisherman, founded by Cevat Shakir. You bought 92 acres in that Islander over your own company, Ersoy Tourism.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0429par0461	That's a shame.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0428par0462	But you've assigned 25 acres to the Ministry of Forestry. Mr. Secretary, you've arranged this for the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the office of the President, to build a hotel. You tried to build a hotel, Mr. Secretary, in a area where diving is forbidden, fishing with a fishing pole, which no man can look at. You're very good at this!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0429par0464	Wrong, wrong, that's what you're saying.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0428par0465	Now, you've taken out the protected areas, which are under the name of the Site region, and after leaving your territory, you've secured other areas again. Minister, the people of Mugla expect you to build a hotel here or not? But in our vanguard, we were once again justified in the case of environmentalists. Plans planned by Environment and Urbanism have been cancelled, Mr. Secretary, and we haven't let you loot this place. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As if that wasn't enough, you came, again, in the Redwood and Bag, declaring these areas a tourist area. The people were happy in the areas where you declared a tourist area, because our places were declared a tourist destination. However, one third of these areas are protected by the seat board; one third is protected by the Forest Law; there is only one third left in this area; there is only one third; there is one third down; there is another one third, you, Ersoy Tourism, that is, a hotel that corresponds to the Voyager hotel. Again, the plans are planned by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, approved by the President, which means private construction is being made in the Tourism Minister's hotel, the valued MPs. How are you going to account for that, Mr. Secretary? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your ministry's goal is to improve and protect culture and tourism, but in the end, you've developed nothing, you've protected nothing. You acted on the logic of the merchant, not as a minister, but as a merchant you ruled and coveted this country because you tried to plunder it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0430par0472	For God's sake!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0431par0473	He's gonna learn from you?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0432par0474	You're gonna have to hit something right.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0433par0475	Of course I'm telling you the right things, I have documents.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0434par0477	Why don't you address the General Assembly? Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0433par0479	I'll get right on it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0434par0480	Complete, Mr. Alban.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0435par0482	There's the Minister.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0436par0483	Don't answer, he's out of time.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0437par0484	They gave it to him, he reads it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0435par0485	The minister, he's over there. What happens to you when the Minister is there?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0438par0486	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0439par0487	Yes, dear friends, our Minister's duty is to protect the environment, to protect the environment, to protect us from the companies of the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Tourism. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Minister, remember this: there is no way to lie, to plunder, to plunder. I call fascism death, freedom of the people! I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0440par0492	In turn, Mr. Ali Öztunç, our Alderman of Kahramanmarash. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Oztunç, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0495	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. I'm here to tell you the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the budget of the Radio and Television Supreme Council. Once again, my respects. The heart would want me to say nice things about Radio and Television Oversight, but unfortunately, it doesn't, I can't; it doesn't save the store, it saves the store, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's not possible. Look what happened these days. Faruk Notifier, member of the RTÜK -- elected from here, with your votes -- went to RTÜK, Mr. RTÜK, gathered the team together; all together, he dropped the membership of Faruk Bilator. He had no right, but he did. And do you know why he did it? Because the Faruk announcer stepped on the leg of the president of RTÜK. You know what he did? Mr. RTÜK President is both the head of the Radio and Television Oversight and a member of the Board of Directors and Press Administrators at TÜRKSAT. The RTÜK Law is clear, Law 6112 states that members of RTÜK cannot serve in other concerned, related organizations, cannot receive wages, cannot earn money. Mr. President of RTÜK receives $15,000 a month from RTÜK. He receives it from TurkishSAT, and also from the Press Ads. Do you know what he gets from TurkishSAT? I'll tell you, dear MPs, please listen carefully. Look, according to TurkishSAT's 2018 Court reports, the amount paid to eight board members in one year is $5,629. Dear MPs, 703,000 euros per person paid for members of the board, $58,000 per month. It's in the Court report. Mr. Kubat, a member of the board of TurkishSAT, receives $58,000 a month. Oh, isn't Istanbul beautiful? He's pocketing it, oh! All right, he got 58. He served there for four months, and the president of the RTÜK pocketed 58. 15 from the RTÜK, 5,300 from the press ad, 70 thousand liras from the ad. Is there money like that? What did he do to make so much money?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0442par0498	It's not a month.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0499	Monthly, yes, monthly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0442par0500	It's not a month.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0501	Well, you don't know, what if I call you RTÜK? You'll take me to the station as a bomb!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0442par0502	I don't know how, I was the vice president there.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0503	Stay out of this, get on with it!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0443par0505	Mr. Oztunç, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0506	They say you're the boss, you think you know the press. You're just gonna sit there and talk. Mind your own business!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0444par0507	You're shitting me!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0443par0508	Mr. Oztunç, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0509	The honorable MPs, the RTÜK President, gather around the staff, say: "From now on, you will call me the younger chief. " You'll call me the little chief. He said that the President's salary is either 70-80,000 lira - he's about 70,000 - you'll call me the younger chief. He's got an entrance to RTÜK, security, bodyguards, everybody looks like this; it's like a blessed Trump, Trump, Trump, comes to RTÜK, as if Mr. Erdoğan is going to visit RTÜK. Guys, no. In the past, what would RTÜK be called? I was a member. In the past, RTÜK was referred to by its decisions, its decisions were discussed, its decisions were discussed, but now RTÜK has been remembered by its actions since Ebubekir Şahin Bey arrived. Let me tell you something else. Look, there are 6-7 floors of RTÜK. Where? It's on the same page. Each member has 500 square feet of room. So did I. I was a member there, too.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0445par0512	Oh!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0513	Yes, I did. The government gave it to me, there was. Now they're sitting there. Do you know what the president of RTÜK did, Mr. Ramadan? He shut down a whole floor, and he's the only one sitting right now. What did he do? The head of RTÜK rented a two-story apartment in the TOBB building, two-story building. 125...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0446par0516	If you'd stayed there, why did you come?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0517	Are you a partner with the president of RTÜK? Hold on, for God's sake. That's a shame. It's a shame. Wait a minute. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0447par0518	Mr. Oztunç, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0519	There are some lawmakers here who come in, speak, talk, talk, do politics, and some who sit here talking and have nothing else to do. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Now, 125 thousand lira rents every month for two floors of RTÜK. He rents $15,000 a month for two floors. It's a shame, it's a sin. I appeal to your conscience. There are huge places in RTÜK. There are rooms. 9,000 lira for the bus ring. I'm giving these to your attention. There's a public spotlight case. Now, every agency that comes in front of you sends out a public spot. Yeah, it's got to be a public spot, right, but there's not gonna be that many public spots. TVs don't get ads because it's filled with public spotlight TV. That's wrong. There shouldn't be so many public spots.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0448par0523	It's not going down.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0524	Surveillance files don't come to the Oversight anymore. Look, the surveillance files don't come to the Oversight anymore. There's been a mistake here. You know why? Because no matter how experienced an expert is,
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0449par0526	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0527	Mr. President, I suppose you'll give me a plus one more minute. I'm not bald, am I?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0450par0528	Kel...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0529	I know you're bald. That's the first time you've said the right thing. I congratulate you, I applaud you. Bravo... Now, sir, the president of the RTÜK has removed the Radio Television Supreme Council from corporate identity, from institutionalization. It's a shame. This is a public establishment, a constitutional institution. We must make good use of this institution. We must appreciate RTÜK. We shouldn't be partisans in RTÜK. Since his arrival, Mr. President has taken people who have been the brains of the RTÜK, who have served there for years, and has thrown them into a place called the Office of Strategy. Who's he bringing? AK PARTY, daughter-in-law of Ankara County, son of who, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I have the list. I have the list. They've been in the media before, guys. I know I have a list, but I'll count it one by one, if I have to. This is wrong.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0451par0532	Mr. Ali, count it, count it, count it all!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0533	Finally, I would like to say, Mr. Kabbat, that I do not wish to address Mr. Mehmet Mush, because in the laws of thermal power plants in the past few weeks...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0452par0535	Complete, Mr. Oztunç.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0441par0536	One last word, Mr. President, and I'll say hello. ...about thermal power plants, Mr. Mush, has come out of here. He said, "Don't worry, we won't allow it." But he passed by, and he wasn't here when he got the chance, and he comes here every now and then. Now, look, as of today at the Afşin-Elbistan Termic Plant, this is a warning that all the chimneys are running at full speed, because the precious MPs will never work again. We've got footage of him in the media today. They're running at full speed because it won't happen again from the start. One, there's been an environmental massacre. Second: God forbid, with such a high capacity, this place can't work. If there's a disaster here tomorrow, it won't just be that firm, and you'll be responsible. Please, Mr. Kubat, I'm asking you, please contact the Minister of Energy, and stop there immediately. No, it's working at full speed. I respectfully salute the General Assembly and wish the budget to be a blessing. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0453par0542	Here you are, Mr. Mush, you have a request.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0454par0545	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Öztunç, had such a gaudy speech, we listened to him. Some of his information is incomplete. I'd like to point out that we don't stop by the House every once in a while, but we do our duty here at the same time -- at the same time -- you've been acting as Group President. We've got 5 Groups of Vice Presidents, so we'll take turns working for the General Assembly. I wasn't on duty here the week of that negotiation. Now, the other thing, Mr. Ali, is that there was a law-related extension here a long time ago. I can't make him believe it. There is no extension here in the current arrangement of these thermal plants. I say, he claimed to be. That's when I told him, I said, Mr. Ali, we have lawyers here, we have Supreme Court, we have Constitutional Courts, you ask them whichever one you go to.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0453par0548	Complete.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0455par0549	The power, the scarecrow? Everything is a court of law. You call it a court of law.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0454par0550	There's no extension in the current arrangement here. Now, he's having an argument over it. That might be their policy. There is an arrangement by the EC PARTY Group, which has been vetoed by our President, and then reorganized; these are separate arguments, but I'd like to point out the part about me: this has been discussed a lot in his assessment of the RTÜK. We have our own explanation for what's going on in the records. My advice to him is to get the records, what we've said, what's been done, what's been done, and we don't waste the General Assembly's time and energy reading it. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0456par0552	Okay. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area In order to speak, our Ankara MP is Mr Murat Emir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0457par0616	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We've been asking for a long time about the money collected for the 15th of July martyrs and their veterans, but you've been lying on your ear for quite some time. You ignored it, and it's possible that you'd be able to lay on it, even if we didn't go easy on you. And then you started pretending to answer, but we don't actually get a clear, clear answer to our questions. I will now read from the transcripts and ask some questions first by accusing Mr. Vice President Fuat Oktay, and expecting clear, clear answers from you. Dear friends, look, I'm reading from the report: "Where have you been, what have you done with this money?" says Fuat Oktay: "It's been transferred to the Bank of Single Treasures." Why did you transfer it? You transferred this money to put it in the treasure? As we collect these coins, we'll collect them for three and a half years and transfer them into the treasure, which we don't know yet. Did you say? Why are you using that money there? Why doesn't Mr. Fuat Oktay come here and answer that question? My second question is: look, if you didn't eat this money, if the money is actually there, then the money has to go into the foundation in 15 days after you've earned the foundation's individuality, according to Code 696, which you've issued. What are you waiting for, eight months? What are you waiting for? Why didn't this money go into the foundation's account in 15 days? Because you ate that money, because you're sitting on it, and we know it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, one claim is that, of course, they can't make an official statement themselves, but they can make someone say it. What is it, sir? The foundation is waiting for the board. What's he waiting for? What holds your hand in the appointment of the board? He can appoint the president, he can appoint him right away. Look, Mr. Minister of Culture's situation is stranger. We ask him in the Plan and Budget Commission: Why isn't he appointed? Who is the head of the board of trustees? He says that the chairman of the Board of Representatives is the Minister of the Family. He can read from the report himself, which is very strange. Your bureaucrats are deceiving you, Mr. Secretary. I'm going to go ahead and ask the questions. Mr. Nurettin Canikli says it's in the records of the state. Brother, show us the records, and we'll see. Why are you hiding it from us? Let's end this discussion. Why are you dragging it out? Why have you been ignoring it for months, years? The job you're going to do, you're going to take it out and show it. Why is it so hard? Because you ate that money, you finished it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, another claim, Fuat Oktay, says: "We haven't touched a penny of the money." Is that so? Look, they say 309 million liras went up to $338 million while those coins were collected. They say the money collected for those who were attacked by terror in Beşiktaş has increased to 52 million liras, and it has increased to 58 million liras. Think about it. There's about $400 million coming up, and that's about $50 million in three and a half years, tops. Look, in the last three years, he's paid close to $500 billion in interest, your power to loan sharks, and from this 500 billion dollars to the fall, the martyrs and the veterans have lost $50 million to their relatives? (CHEERING) When you didn't touch the penny, you didn't touch it? If this isn't touching your penny, if this isn't eating the money, how is it going to be explained if this isn't handing over the money of the martyr, the veteran? See, we're going on: you set up this foundation at a fake address. I'm asking the Minister of the Family in 19/11/2019 myself, and I'm saying, "Mr. Minister, why is your address fake?" The Minister says, "We don't have a fake address, our address is a very valid address." Mr. Minister has no eyes on the foundation in those days, he has no eyes in the foundation's work, he's trying to avoid the situation." Then they realize there's no such foundation at that address, and then they're in a hurry to find a new address. They didn't settle for that either, so they rushed to the address they found, and within a few days, they put a tarp on the original sign. Look, this is a situation where government bureaucracy, government rulers, should be ashamed. There's a foundation there, we've given you the address. They say they don't know it until we tell them, even the Minister doesn't know it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0458par0628	Let's complete it, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0457par0629	After they put the sign up there, they can't even think of giving you a phone number after you put a tarp on it. So we're going to go on, look, we're asking Mr. Secretary here: where are we going to get the note of this foundation? It says: "The note is open." It says: "We don't know what's open, it's not open." The foundation is closed, there's no foundation that we can access, and we can't find out. Look, the question is, where's the money for this foundation? What do you expect to give the money of this foundation to those who deserve it, the relatives of the martyr, and the veterans? If he's really in the One Treasure Account, why are you hiding his document from us? And I speak to the High Council, if those coins are defeated, if those dirty hands are reaching for them, it is our duty to find and remove those dirty hands. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, when that campaign was being launched under the President's protection, it was said: "Take care of your witness," said Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım. Now, folks, he's claimed his martyrship, but the House needs to look after the money collected for the martyrs.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0459par0635	Complete, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0457par0636	Thank you. So, this budget is a budget that extends a hand to the money collected for those martyrs, and in that sense, this budget should never be spent in any way. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0460par0640	It's up to Mr. Yüksel Özkan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0461par0643	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute all our citizens who are watching us at the very beginning of the Grand Assembly and its screens. I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group on the budgets of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, whose short name is the OHR, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. The TİKA was established in 1992 to carry out a strong co-operation with neighbouring and friendly countries, which our country, particularly the Turkish Republics, is firmly linked to historical and cultural ties, and was established today by the presidential decree in 2018. Compared to the Court reports of 2017 and 2018, all irregularities mentioned by the relevant institution to be corrected in 2017 and in 2018 have been seen to have continued and even increased. In recent years, the activities of TİKA and OHR have unfortunately gone beyond the objective of the establishment. In particular, it is understood from information from the field that the Balkans supported fellow party members in particular, helping to separate the neighbour from the brother, from the neighbor, from the brother, in the political representation of Turkish and Muslim communities in the Balkans. In recent years, the TİKA, which operates as a small copy of Adeta TOKI, has been the door of tenders and jobs for supporters. HOW righteous and ethical is it to be named after members of the family, even though many of the projects that TİKA (TİKA) is named after Mr. President? Companies who want to participate in investment projects are directed to foundations operating at the same address, whose founders are AK PARTI MPs. In this way, our country's resources are being used irresponsibly, and in return, no control mechanisms are being operated. [[Applause from CHP rows]] IN 2018, the initial grant for 317 million and 302,000 TİKA was earmarked for 420 million 173,43 TL as of the end of the year. THE Court reports of the year 2018 show that TİKA (TİKA) maintains an improper, unplanned, unscheduled and unsupervised institution. Dear friends, I'd like to draw your attention to another point. The first six months of the year 2019 increased by 52.53 per cent, compared to the previous six months, and the increase was tied to new staff purchases and salary costs. The institution's first six months of 2019 have increased by 229.94 per cent compared to the same period of the previous year. How can it be explained that staff costs in this public institution increased by 53 percent compared to the previous year? I'd like to ask: how many new staff were taken in 2018-2019, according to what criteria? What is the activity of congregations in the institution? Is the reason why TİKA (TİKA) is not a member of the OECD Committee for Development Assistance because it is not transparent in its purchases of goods and services and that TİKA (TİKA) wants to escape control of these institutions? These questions need to be answered. In 2018, our other agency, OHR, received a start-up grant from the central management budget at $285,828,000. In 2018, 53 million resources were transferred from one project to OHR and 11 million from another project to the other. Apart from the funds, the institution's budget costs were $350m, $79,270,44. The Court reports of the OHR show, unfortunately, a lot of impropriety in terms of management and control. Studies have shown that administrative and financial support given to NGOs continues to support specific NGOs without institutional support.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0462par0653	Let's complete it, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0461par0654	There is no transparency on how and where the transferred resources are being spent. Unfortunately, TİKA and OHR are among the most active institutions of the PKK and various congregations. After the attempted coup attempt on July 15th, how many of these two institutions have been arrested, discharged, and suspended? What are the number of people who have fled abroad or who have not returned when serving abroad? Are you aware of the construction of the new congregation in the field? Mr. President, we know that TİKA and OHR should appreciate and support the services they must and do for the Turkish nation in accordance with its institutional purposes, so let no one doubt it, but it should be the duty of every MP to ask for them in recent years when all wrong reports have been given page by page by page by page by page by page by page by page. Therefore, the court's auditing for the Turkish nation disregards its reports...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0462par0657	Bow.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0461par0658	I'm completing it. ...to listen to the 2020 budgets of our institutions and to say yes to these wrongs without correcting them will once again hurt the public conscience. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0463par0662	In turn, our Eskişehir MP, Mr. Utku Kırözer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0464par0665	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. We need a free press, free journalists to reach our people for the budget debates we're discussing here. So we have to look at our report card in this area while we discuss the budget. Earlier this year, President Erdoğan said: "Our press has become more democratic, more free in 16 years." Did it really happen? Let's see: between 2001 and 2004, the number of arrested journalists increased to ten, 11 times today, 110. This year, 59 journalists were sentenced to 200 years in prison, 11 journalists were taken into custody, 19 journalists were arrested. In 180 countries in the world, we ranked 157, 58 steps in 16 years in freedom of the press. Where's more freedom? In hundreds of countries, world leaders' tax evasion assets have been reported: the Paradise Papers file. But in Turkey alone, Pelin was tried for writing these documents, and his journalism was fined, just as women who danced to protest violence and harassment all over the world were taken into Turkey's custody. It should shame us all, dear friends, that our country should be remembered like this in the world. The founder of the civil society, Osman Kavala, has been unfairly unlawful, without freedom for seven hundred and seventy days. Neither the court nor the Constitutional Court has ended this injustice. In the end, on Human Rights Day, the European Court of Human Rights ruled against Turkey. Just three years and one month and five days in Edirne Prison, like Selahattin Demirtaş. My dear friends, these decisions are a disgrace not only to those who keep Kavala, Demirtaş, and hundreds of political prisoners in prison unjustly, but also to our democracy and to us. You see, under the pressure of one man's administration, neither the ECHR listens, nor the Constitutional Court, nor the reform of the judiciary. We spent this year talking about judicial reform, we made the law, news and criticism would no longer be a crime, but the truth is not. As we entered this year, Turkey's respected newspapers, the Republic and the Speaker, were facing trial on charges of support for the terrorist organization on charges of irrational allegations. Well, it's the end of the year, nothing's changed. With the same accusations, the same courts defend their news, they enter 2020. There's no shortage, there's more. One day and Universal newspapers, one of the most successful examples of independent journalism, and executives of the T24 news website, are also indicted for their headlines. Interestingly, prosecutors also admit to filing indictments without finding any evidence for these irrational accusations. My dear friends, American Father Brunson, are being tried in Turkey and released under the pressure of Trump. The priest is free, but Emotion Truster and Alican Uludağ are still on trial for two years in prison. This year, resistance to high court rulings also culminated in unlawfulness. In the matter of the Republic, the Supreme Court has said that this is journalism. He has asked for acquittal, but insists on seeing the subjugation, headlines, and news as terrorist. Author Ahmet Altan was released after being imprisoned for 1,38 days, but was arrested again by another court with an unspecified application. Of course, if the heads of state declare that they don't respect and respect judicial decisions, these decisions shouldn't surprise anyone, but what's happening is our country's reputation. My dear friends, information is censored in Turkey, Wikipedia has been banned for three years. In 2006, the number of disabled websites was 6 and today a total of 288,310 sites are closed to access. The 7.334 news link has been blocked. The only man in power is the world record holder of censorship with an official application to remove content from Twitter 5.099 times. That's not enough. Thousands of citizens are being taken into custody, arrested for sharing. My dear friends, power finds new ways to silence journalists every day. The decision paper itself announced that it was in the embargo. Now there's an official ad embargo on the daily One Day, with official writing. They wrote reason: no, you didn't sign the news. No, you didn't exactly publish the agency news. It's all about the water.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0465par0677	Let's complete it, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0464par0678	Thank you. The real reason is to make headlines of poverty, corruption, massacres of women and nature. Look, pool developers' billion-dollar debts have been wiped out in one piece, while hundreds of newspapers in Anatolia are forced to close because they owe a quarter of a tax. Again, it's being played on the bread of journalists for reasons of water. The press card of 685 journalists is being revoked without justification. The applications of journalists of the years, who have a press card, are constantly being held up as a threat. A single man's administration, apart from protecting the freedom of the press, is unfortunately reflected in the street as well as in this restrictive, targeted attitude. Ahmet Takan, Yavuz Selim Demirağ, Sabattin Öşkıbar, Hakkım Sütüklı and dozens more journalists were beaten in the street this year, and their perpetrators received no punishment at all. Here he is today on the live broadcast of HAN correspondent Hasan Günmez. My dear friends, you see, the press has been liberated from the President's mouth. The 2019 we started was neither the year of freedom nor the year of reform. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0466par0684	Please let's finish.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0464par0685	No matter what we put in the budget, no matter what we put in the budget, when journalists are being defamed in prisons, when they're being forced to defend their news in courts. In the budget, the requirement for success in the economy is legal security, freedom of expression, democracy. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0466par0688	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the last speaker is our Nevşehir MP, Faruk Sarıaslan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Yellowaslan.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0467par0691	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I was going to talk about the Cappadocia Field Law, but I've spoken about it many times, both from this chair and from the Commission. This Field Law was right to come out, but we smell something nasty about the implementation of this law. About that, I've given Mr. Secretary a motion to ask, and I'm waiting for his answer. After the answer to this motion, I'm going to speak again on the floor of the House. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to tell you in numbers where we brought the country from today, from 2002 to today, from the AK PARTI. As we look at the increase of national income per capita from 1975 to today, Turkey is a country that increases its national income by 45-50 per decade. This is the same rate as the 46 per cent increase in the last decade. The multinational income, $62 billion in 1975, $89 billion in 1985, $226 billion in 1995, and, as a result, $720 billion in 2015. So there's been no change in the increase in national income every ten years. These figures also show that as there is no change in the AKP's period, the next -- if so -- the growth of 45 to 50 per cent in the decade will be reduced; it seems so. Congressmans, the method of solving problems by ignoring problems has not yet been invented. We need to diagnose the problems correctly. The real reason for Turkey's failure to develop is neither external powers nor geography -- which is always mentioned here. There are three main reasons: the absence of justice, the lack of basic freedoms, and the lack of education based on science, intelligence and skill. Unfortunately, in our social climate, where obedience is blessed by the national education ministry and the OECD, our young people cannot develop critical thinking. According to this study, only 2.2 per cent of our young people have advanced critical thinking. However, the OECD average is 15 percent, and South Korea is 28 per cent. So we can understand why South Korea was developed. The key to the development of a country in modern times is producing value. In order to achieve high-profit production, we need to start with quality pre-school education in no time, and we need common science schools, research-oriented universities, elite R&D centers. I'll give you a few examples of what happened when we didn't do it. Our Black Sea MPs, in particular, often express themselves here. We're making $3 billion a year from our annual export of nuts, which we celebrate. The Italian company, which takes away this natural resource from us, adds intelligence and creativity to the world, makes $11 billion a year. A company that employs 22,000 people earns 4 times the value we produce with 5 million people. We're the movers of the nut, they're the ones who enjoy it. Again, let me give you another striking example. 90% of the towels sold in the United States are produced in Turkey. The factory makes more money from us, from us, from us, from us, from their imagination and design than we do from them. Let me give you an example from Turkey, from my hometown. In my hometown of Nevşehir, some of our entrepreneurs, some of our smart friends, have turned caves, which have been abandoned for years, into hotels, including artists' imagination, design skills. Now they're selling the rooms at 150 euros, at prices, at fees. Marketing's good, customers are good. I regret to inform you that there are serious problems with direct flights to Cappadocia Airport, which I told the Minister several times at the Commission meeting.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0468par0698	Pack it up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0467par0699	So in modern times, in this new economic model, we can't improve our country with raw materials or work force, and we can't improve it. We'll either put ourselves to sleep with the story of development, or we'll see the truth, and we'll straighten ourselves out, so we'll value the mind, science, and creativity. Dear lawmakers, I will now tell you what can be done on the basis of creativity in Nevşehir, especially here is our Minister of Tourism. First, scientific research shows that our Kozakak district's hot water contains important minerals, and therefore very effective results in physical therapy. Instead of a low-capacity physical therapy center, we can make an improved, expanded physical treatment center, and respond to requests coming from abroad, patients can be accepted, so we can make an immigration district instead of an immigrant Kozak.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0468par0702	Gather round, greet Mr. Yellowaslan.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0467par0703	The caves, which are located in our Nar village adjacent to the center of Nevşehir, can be converted into hotels, including intelligence, art, and tourism, as shown above. The Nevşehir region is the best use of solar energy. In this region, cheap energy from the sun reduces the farmer's electricity costs for years of bending his back, relieves the farmer and frees him from debt. And finally, as a government, help the shopkeepers and farmers, who are in as much trouble as you help the football clubs, and the farmer will rebuild, and the tradesman will get rid of the e-accessive sink, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0469par0707	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now meet your demands on behalf of the individuals. On behalf of the individuals, the request for a statement is in favor of our Istanbul MP, Mr. Arzu Erdem. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0470par0712	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2018 Central Management Accounting Law Proposal on behalf of myself. I salute the Holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Dear MPs, three years ago today two terrorist attacks occurred near the Vodafone Arena Stadium in Beşiktaş district of Istanbul. At the end of the game, dozens of our men fell to the ground in a treacherous attack on the streets of all the audiences and members of the Police. In the attack, we lost dozens of young men who were just in their 20s, and I want to remember them with mercy and gratitude. We all owe it to us not to leave the blood of our martyrs on the floor. Our struggle is for our country and our nation. No traitorous attack will disrupt our receptacle, our unity, especially the linking of the Turkish nation. The Turkish nation is one; it was, of course, it will remain one. From here, I would like to address the traitors, especially our country, our flag, our oppressor: You have burned the heart of parents, wives, and children, and your actions will not go unpunished. You will always find a hero's heart burning with the love of the land, the love of the flag and the love of the nation; make sure of it. We will not decrease, we will multiply, we will not forget, we will not forget. May the Lord spare our heroic soldier, our police, all of our security forces, our police, our Special Forces, our Rangers, and our guards, who wage war against terrorism, and stone to their feet, and no tears to their eyes. The budget is vital to balancing, auditing, determining social and administrative priorities; the budget is the property of a nation, a state; the budget is a financial plan for the future period. It is vital to our country and our nation that we make this plan right. Through the budget, we have tried to address the problems of the great Turkish nation in particular, and with the resources created by our nation's sweat, we are still trying to make arrangements to answer their expectations. As the National Movement Party Group, in accordance with the work and expectations we have made regarding our nation's demands, we have made recommendations specifically to meet them, and we have carried out the necessary work in the Commission in particular. We've been the voice of our fellow lawmakers and our nation in each ministry's budget meeting, and we continue to be the voice of our nation. I hereby wish the budget of 2020 to be a blessing to all the ministries, to our country, and to our nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there was a wise man and a man who couldn't attract that wise man. One day he said: "I will go to this wise man, and I will take his wisdom away from him, and I will destroy it." They said: "What will you ask him?" He said: "I have a butterfly in my hand, and I will ask him whether he is dead or alive." And in the face of his response, you'll see that his knowledge will be destroyed. For I will release the butterfly in my hand, and I will shake my hand, and I will kill it. And they have called the wise. He said: O wise man, I have a butterfly in my hand. Is this butterfly dead or alive? The Wise One said: "The butterfly is in your hands. " In fact, we've got the young, we've got the women, we've got the Turkish nation's problems, we've got the Turkish youth. The plague and debt of every member of parliament who is political under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is to serve the Turkish nation. We have the art. So, right here, I'd like to talk a little bit about the success of our General Directorate of State Theatres. In its 60th year, 2009-2010, the state theatres increased the number of scenes 52 in that season by 46 per cent today and increased it to 76 per cent. In 2010, the audience increased its number to 1,468 thousand, raising it to about 35 per cent today to 1,976k. During the 2019-2020 season, the General Directorate of State Theatres continued its activities with the capacity of 26.304 seats in 76 scenes in 22 cities. On 1 November 2019, Edirne State Theatre was opened and served by Edirne artists. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, a moment, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0471par0723	Complete.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0470par0724	In 2020, Hatay, Kayseri, Mardin and Samsun have conducted studies to open new scenes. Turkish musicals have led to the gathering of our national and spiritual values with art lovers with local authors' local works. In this regard, I would like to thank Mr. Mustafa Kurt Sir and his entire team here. While our Minister is here, I would like to repeat that we have requested that 70 new positions be given to the State Theatres, which celebrated its 70th anniversary in the 2019-2020 season. I salute everyone again, thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit05spe0472par0728	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0472par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. Dear lawmakers, we've met their demands on behalf of the groups, met the request for a statement on behalf of individuals, and now it's time for our executive and other representatives from the Commission to speak. As you know, valued lawmakers are the only institution in Turkey that directly drafts its own budget and sends it to the Plan and Budget Commission, meeting and agreeing on its General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0473par0006	Then there's no need to talk about it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0472par0007	Now, I'm going to make a promise to Mr. Suraryya Sadi Biltic, the representative of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the deputy chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Here you go, wise guy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0474par0011	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect, and I wish you the best of luck in your work. I wish that the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the 2018-Year Central Management Accounting Law Talks and our institutions' budgets for 2020 should be good for our Parliament and our nation. Dear friends, I'd like to start by saying that our talks on the budgets of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Parliament of the Court and the Public Control Agency -- at least on my behalf -- were very efficient and beneficial. I would like to once again express my gratitude to all members who have contributed to the work with their opinions, recommendations, and criticism during the commission talks. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you're actually very tired, you left very late yesterday, and I wasn't planning on giving a lot of speeches today.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0475par0015	You may be tired, Mr. President, we're not tired.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0474par0016	I wasn't planning on giving a speech, but we, as lawmakers, are all responsible for protecting the law of Parliament, of this Veteran Assembly. Actually, when I say the law of the Veterans Assembly, I mean the law of the people. Aren't we people's representatives? Aren't we representatives of national will? Isn't it our duty to uphold the law of national will, my friends?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0475par0017	That's right, there are no such objections!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0474par0018	Yeah, no objections. There are no objections, and for years we've already come to this day, fighting other constitutional institutions, pressure groups, Parliament and all the focal points that want to foster national will, and as our President has just stated, the Turkish Grand National Assembly does not send its own budget separately, but simultaneously submits its budget to the approvals of the Supreme Assembly. So, will he be able to carry out the answers when some criticism of the House's budget or functioning or the system comes in? In a decision made by the Council of Counsellors, the House's right to speak here was restricted, but thank you, Mr. President, has shown this will, and I've decided to take this opportunity to make this speech here in order to protect the law of the House. As we look at today's talks and talks on the Commission, talks on parliament's budget have been mainly discussed, budgetary rights have been discussed. The new government system has brought up life-moving relations. Especially in the legislature process, there was talk about how these proposals should be made in the preparation process. Gene, the final account subcommittee was brought up mainly by our lawmakers. Another headline was this written question motions, and, of course, the problems of our parliamentary staff, as well as their parliamentary advisers, were raised here. Respected members, I have expressed the most focused issues during talks on the Parliamentary budget in the Commission. As you know, with the presidential government system, it is clearly separated from each other by its powers and responsibilities, as well as by its ability to live and run and run. But the important thing to note here is that the separation of forces in us, as in this American presidential system, is not a constant opposition to governance and life, to political crises that will lead to polarisation and lock down the state system. One of the things that was already achieved by the new system was the creation of an institutional infrastructure that would minimise political instability that had cost Turkey a lot of money in the past. So we couldn't move on to a system that would create a radical anti-life-result by ignoring our long-term political tradition and practice. At this point, a more reasonable approach has been adopted to a system that will enable co-operation between our Parliament and the government, both in legislative activities and in the creation of state policies.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0476par0023	Mr. President, are you speaking for the government or on behalf of the Speaker?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0477par0024	Mr. Altay, let's hear it and talk later.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0474par0025	Mr. President, the honorable members...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0476par0026	Mr. President, what's he talking about right now? Is that even possible? Speaking on behalf of the Speaker, he can't run the Vice President and present the system to us here, that won't happen! We can't accept that, that's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0478par0027	He needs to get to the point of the budget, Mayor.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0474par0028	If you'll excuse me, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm coming. Excuse me.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0479par0029	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0474par0030	In terms of budgetary rights, in classical parliamentary systems, the administration that prepares the budget is also important in terms of parliamentary law, as it also constitutes a majority in legislation, we find that the budget process is largely proprietary. (CHP rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows, rows,
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0480par0031	You're talking about the separation of men, you're talking about the executive position, Mr. President, this is custody.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0479par0032	Dear Altay, my dear friends, please... Mr. Altay, let's stop our dear friends.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0481par0034	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I'd like to tell the High Council where I'd like to come.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0479par0036	My dear friends, Mr. Wise will brief you on the budget pens. Please, please, my dear friends...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0482par0038	Take a break, Mayor, this isn't how it works.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0483par0039	Mr. President, aren't we going to present in the Commission today the problems that need to be resolved here regarding the legislature relations involved in Parliament?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0482par0040	That's none of your business.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0483par0041	Excuse me.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0482par0042	It's not your job; it's the President's coming, it's the defense system.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0484par0043	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0482par0044	Take a break, Mayor, take a break!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0485par0045	So we're not going to talk about how legislation-walking relations should be taken within the framework of a new Civil Code?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0482par0047	Take a break, Mayor!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0485par0048	Mr. President, you don't want the House to talk? Do you wish to lower the voice of the House, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit06spe0486par0049	Dear friends, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0486par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2020 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2018 Central Management Act Proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. When we took a break, Mr. Sadi Clumsy kept talking. I promise Mr. Sadi Biltic, deputy speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, will speak on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0487par0006	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you. Yes, from the point of view of the budget, in the classical parliamentary system, the administration that makes the budget also constitutes a majority in legislation, and we see that the budget process is largely proprietary. As a matter of fact, our own parliamentary experience confirms that assumption. As you all know, there used to be provisions that prevented the budget from being rejected by legislation because there was a provision in the Constitutional Charter and Budget Commission that the power would have at least 25 percent of the 40 members; in the presidential system, the logic of the budget changed. As in the past, the president must submit the financial demands for his new policies to Parliament's approval. Notice that the budget rights here have gone beyond being a process of procedure, and have become an asset that allows legislation to oversee running things. The Plan and Budget Commission currently consists of 30 members, and according to political parties' chair distributions, this is determined. In such a process, both the right to control, the old system... look, I want to state that Parliament has been strengthened, but there are flaws. What is it? There needs to be an emergency Internal Charter; a final account constant subcommittee needs to be established; according to the new system, the framework of legislation-walking relations must be determined in the process of drafting bids. We can bid as Congress. In what way can we make independent arrangements without conducting them ourselves? Human rights, basic rights and freedoms, the Constitution. We can do these things, but other than that, all the legal arrangements that Parliament has made, mainly, are the obligations of the Parliament to make arrangements that it needs to serve the people faster. Today, when we look at both the General Assembly and the commissions, isn't the most critical of the preparation of these proposals? Aren't we constantly asking? Now, we're questioning him on the one hand, but on the other hand, there's no critical side to express that political parties, the General Assembly, must sit down and set up the Civil Code according to the new system. That's what we have to do. Here, look, Mr. Minister Zechariah Mazell has actually learned a lot from the Plan and Budget Commission in the 26th term; one of the things he said was: the Plan and Budget Commission, although it may seem to be a member of the Assembly, is a ruling commission. The second thing he said: ▪ The powers use the right to the budget, but on the other hand, they must be able to use the right to control until the end of Parliament. Now, here he comes to the Commission, neither came; with him came the budget, and with him came the Proposal of the 2018 Definite Account Law. The Constitution says it is discussed together. How was she interviewed? Had enough talks been made on the final account on the Court's reports? Unable to do so. From the 22nd term to this side -- perhaps four times -- there was a decree in the Civil Charter at the point of the establishment of the final subcommittee. In fact, in the 22nd term -- and Mr. Altay was there -- there were two permanent subcommittees as both a precise account commission and a budget commission -- but they were all bullies. But today, in the new system, that's what we need to do. Yeah, you're tired, you don't have much. It turns out Congress doesn't want to hear about this anymore. I won't say much about it. But I have to tell you, it's about a number of criticisms for the Presidential Court. Our lawmakers on written question motions, believe me, we have nothing waiting for the presidency, but because of the intense intensity, written motions have been sent to authorities from three days to a week at the latest. Look, as in the previous legislatures, it has also been reported by Mr. Mustafa Sentop, our President, during this legislative period, on 26/10/2018, and then on 5 July 2019 -- signed by Mr. Sentop -- to the Vice President's Vice President and the ministries, showing the situation of answering the question proposals, which will be answered during the duration of the written question proposals, and the answers to which will be answered fully and satisfactory to the dignity of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Yes, we have a very different staff working in our Parliament, like on the other side of the public. We have staffed personnel working under Article 4/A; we have contract employees in exchange for staff, under Article 4/B; we have permanent employees according to Article 4/D; and we have national advisors who are subject to 6253. Now, if there is a regulation of the law, and there is a number of regulations, such as price differences, inequalities, equity rights, pension rights, legal regulations, our institution and Parliament will abide by such practices. Regarding the parliamentary advisers: Unfortunately, they work according to 6253. There's the law. In addition to contract fees for employees who work within this scope, under financial and social rights, under any name, there is also no payment required by law. There's nothing the Speakership, the Presidential Court, the Parliamentary Administration can do about it. Gene was a statement from Mr. Mahmut Tanal. About the construction work conducted by Business and Production President. The Presidential Court is informed of the maintenance and construction of the parliament, and will be taken from the Speaker of Parliament in accordance with the mandate given. Construction was carried out in an open tender procedure under the laws of Public Contraction Act 4734. I'm not going into shelters, I'm not talking about shelters, I'm going through them.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0488par0017	Let's not have to go into the shelters.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0487par0018	No, no, no. No, I was just going to say, Mr. Old Durmaz, to protect your brother's rights. I have to protect the law of all our executive officers, of course they're all doing their duty. Let me just say, let me finish: We understand the 100th year. There's an event calendar on it. There was an objection to the budget prepared or created for this area. So the Veteran Assembly is expected to celebrate its 100th year and its entire Turkish sath with events. In this context, we can't say that in this framework, if you look out this window, that the budget is a high budget, given the general budget. In addition, as far as I'm concerned, our Speaker met with groups, e-mailed to all of our lawmakers, and their opinion on the events on this matter. In this framework, the framework of the 100th-year events will be shared by our Parliament Speaker on December 27th. There were certain things that were said about the Court, but I don't want to take up too much of your time, and I'll stop here because I told Mr. President that I wouldn't use the full amount of time, but I can assure you that the Turkish Court, within the framework of INTOSAI, is the most decently functioning of the Court of Justice. Especially since there are only three specific reports presented to the Parliament until the Law of the Court of Law 6085, which is 2018, the four main reports on this, the one appropriations, and the 189 reports of institutions have been submitted to the Parliament, I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0489par0022	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0490par0023	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0489par0024	Thank you. For the record, as the Republican People's Party, we believe that we have a Congress that deserves to be celebrated in the most glorious way, even without a bit of expense, in honor of the 100th year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I just wanted it to go on record. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0491par0029	Dear MPs, it is now up to Mr. Mehmet Nuri Ersoy, Minister of Culture and Tourism. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 45 minutes, Mr. Ersoy. Dear MPs, please hear this, Mr. Secretary is on the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0492par0034	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the presentation of the 2020 budget of our Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I salute you all.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0491par0036	Dear friends, please shut up, I beg you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0492par0037	Before I begin my remarks on our ministry's budget, I once again offer my condolences to our dear teacher and Deputy Minister Ahmet Haluk Dursun, who we have lost this year. Today, I would like to mention one more issue in this Veteran Assembly: a writer who denies the Bosnian genocide has been awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature. This award, given on Human Rights Day, can make no genocide forget, and such matters cannot be justified with rewards. Through the minimisation of the bureaucracy with the presidential government system, a new era has begun in the state's functioning of ideas into action and results. At this time, the march on our country's 2023 targets, led by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has gained a new momentum. At the same time, with our President declaring tourism a strategic sector, a great opportunity and a great responsibility has arisen for us. Our ministry's organization structure has changed. We are now one of the most important actors in public diplomacy, along with TİKA, the President of Turkish and Relative Community abroad, the General Directorate of Foundations and the Yunus Emre Institute. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk about some projects that we've done to make our country a brand in culture and tourism under the leadership of our President. 155 archaeological excavations are conducted in our country; 123 of them are carried out by local dig presidents, 32 of them by foreign dig presidents. There have also been 43 museum excavations, 114 rescue excavations and cleaning work, 132 surface explorations, 10 underwater excavations and research, 33 public investment excavations, a total of 487 excavations and research activities as of December 2019, and we aim to raise the funding, which was 38 million in 2019 fiscal year to 80 million in 2020. In 2019, we began a 12-month digging program for archaeological excavations within our Ministry. On this occasion, 120 experts and 350 workers from the archaeological, art history and restoration majors were also employed in the excavation work. We will increase the number of digs supported in 2020 to 62. In the year 2020, 62 archaeological digs will employ a total of 318 experts and 913 workers. All 123 dig heads in 2021 will be included in the project. There's also foreign dig presidents here, and we'll call them after 2021, because unfortunately they're digging for 45 to 60 days, so if they can't do it, we'll either ask them to extend or transfer it to our local dig presidents. Meanwhile, as part of our Ministry and Gaziantep Metropolitan Municipality as part of the Pre-accession Financial Aid Tool, our country's first national archeology institute was founded by the Anatolian Archeology and Cultural Heritage Institute. I'm very happy to share that information with you. In 20 per cent in 2019, the number of decisions of 31,707 was increased by the Performance Management System Project, which was implemented by our ministry to speed up issues that were on the agenda to be discussed on the protection zone boards. In 2018, the number of subjects on the agenda was 1.305, while in the first 11 months of 2019, the number was reduced to 108, and the number of subjects on the agenda dropped by 92 per cent. The processing period has also been reduced from three months to thirty days on average. You know, this was especially at the beginning of the biggest problems with the development of people who wanted to invest in cities. We've solved a huge problem here with a 92 percent correction. Our work on our cultural assets is not limited to our present. The work of our Ministry for the extradition of our cultural assets, which were once found to belong to this land, has been co-ordinated by internal and external partners, mostly through diplomatic initiatives, as required. Between 2014 and 19, a total of 4,437 cultural assets were returned to our country. Among the most important of these artifacts brought back to our country recently: the golden crown from Scotland in 2018, the bronze goat figure from France, the marble frizz panel from Germany, and the 12 mosaic panels from the United States of America's Bowling Green State University, the Chinese panel from England in 2019, and the 101 artifacts from Bulgaria. Again, as a result of the work we've done this year, we've already identified and initiated the extradition process of two very valuable artifacts from this land, which are planned to be auctioned in England. One of them is a car model taken by two bulls, whose resemblance to the artifacts found in the Hall of Glory, dating back to the 3 to 2th thousand B.C.E. The other piece is one of two missing pieces from a Sidamara-type tomb located at the Isparta Museum, located in five Roman-era pieces. Each of the two works will soon be delivered to our London Embassy and then brought to Turkey at the beginning of 2020. I'd like to mention one thing in particular: in 2020, we're bringing our Anti-Trafficking Unit into the position of president. What does that mean? So we're raising our task force threefold, so that it can be brought to our country by the quick pursuit of such artifacts abroad. The history of the land we live on today is identical to the history of civilization. As a result of this wealth, our number of assets in the World Heritage List has risen to 18. By the time our president declared the year Gobeklitepe in tourism and then opened this unique historical site, the number of visitors was over 370,000 in the first 11 months of this year. At the end of the year, we predict that this number will reach the level of 400,000 people. As of 2019, we also have 78 assets on the World Heritage Temporary List. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as of 2019, we continue our activities in this area with 210 museums within our Ministry, 143 structures, and 268 private museums under our Ministry's supervision. In 2019, our ministry spent 22.5 million dollars to open five new museums. In 2019, the reception centre, sales units, hiking routes and navigational terraces were completed and opened. The pain, Bitlis, Antalya, Burdur, and Çanakkale will be completed by the beginning of 2020. Our ministry's funding for the investment programme and business costs of 2019 is 280 million. Thanks to the increase in revenues of our nesting sites, the amount of funding for maintenance, repair, restoration and operating costs has exceeded 500 million. Now, I'd like to talk to you about something here in particular about museum entry fees. You know, we sometimes get criticism because we raise prices, but our museum entry prices are still below the average of European standards. We need to keep raising these prices, but while we're doing that, we need to protect the citizen.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0493par0052	Their income is higher than ours, Minister.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0492par0053	I'll answer if you listen. We've done a few apps on this. For example, for Turkish citizens, 0-18 is free, 65 is free, soldiers are free, teachers are free, archaeological students are free, college students are 50% off. You know, we've started the Museum Card app and we're using it intensively. What's a museum card app? There's a 70 lira intake fee. With a decision that we made last year, we now protect museum card fees, so we never raise their prices, and we give them unlimited access to museums that belong to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism for a year. From New Year's Eve, we'll expand its scope by taking the National Palaces into the Museum Card process. So the average time you go to a museum once a month comes at $6 a month when you look at it. There is no such opportunity or opportunity anywhere in the world. Here I particularly want to mention: Look, we get 85 percent of our museum income from foreigners, we get 15% from local visitors, and we get half of that from Museum Kart. So it would be unfair to lose an 85 per cent income, considering the possibility of a 7.5 per cent of people complaining about the entry fee. With our income from here, look, we've really increased the maintenance and repair of our museums, we've improved their quality. In the first 11 months of 2019, the museum and its building site reached about 32.7 million visitors, and for the first time in its history, the number of museum visitors continued to increase. At the same time of 2018, there were 26.5 million people. The number of visitors in our museums increased by 23.5% compared to last year, while our revenues increased by 84 percent. As of the end of 2019, we predict that the museum and the site of our ministry will be over 33 million visitors. Can you recommend the museum that you visited to your relatives on the site of rating and evaluation through the Turkish Museums, which we have started this year for measurement? The proportion of the answer to the question given by visitors has been 93 percent. Mr. Bülbül, my deputy, said that the museum and its plots have turned to ruin. But we, in particular, have launched a survey system called the Turkish Museums this year to follow the quality standards and the satisfaction rates of the museums, and we are monitoring the satisfaction rates of any museum, and we are immediately interfering with Ankara, and we are warning our museum managers, and we are correcting them. Good results, 93 percent recommendation. Mr. President, the state-of-the-art lawmakers, including archaeological, urban and natural sites in Cappadocia, cultural and tourism protection and development zones and national parks, have caused the area to be protected in the way it deserves. The permit processes for any practice that was intended to be done in the field have been going on a very long time. The eight-year plan for protection could not be implemented because approval and permits could not be completed. The President of Cappadocia Area and the current protection status in the region have been further strengthened, and protection efforts run by different institutions have been convened under the roof of our Ministry. The area is protected at 58,000 hectares of natural sites, archaeological sites and urban sites, raising to 83,000 hectares, and securing the capadocia area as a holistic protection. So the amount of protected space isn't reduced, it's increased in reverse. It has also been passed on to the field presidency, which has not been effectively used, not only for elections and other political reasons in the municipalities. In order to prevent illegal construction as a result, 239 of the illegal practices detected during the year 2019 have been removed under the leadership of our Ministry, and the process continues. We've single-handedly collected all the protection powers given to central administrations by the model of the field presidency and have them represented on the decision-making commission. The public's demands in the field are now being made direct by the presidency and are being concluded. I'd like to point out that we've been implementing a beautiful and effective example of our field presidency for five years at the Gallipoli historical site. In 2019, our Gelipoli Historical Field President of the Çanakkale Wars completed 18 productions, maintenance, repairs, and implementation activities; 25 promotions and activities took place. So far, we have hosted nearly 2 million visitors in our historical museums. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our goal in tourism is 2023, 75 million tourists, $65 billion in tourism revenues. To achieve these goals, we went to a change of policy, changed our promotional strategies. We are building the Tourism Promotion and Development Agency of Turkey and building the board of directors mainly and the entire staff from the private sector. Look, I'm specifically pointing out that the board of directors, the staff, they're all from the private sector. Like in other countries, tourism revenues are high, we will be promoted not only by the state, but by the private sector along with the state. It's only possible that you'll be able to come back in two or three years when the state and the industry hand in hand, where you can be with the government in 20 years. This is not an agency that we invented; this is an agency that was first invented by Italians in 1919, a hundred years before today, in all countries with high tourism revenues. We've been talking for 20 years, and we haven't been able to make it happen, and this year, it's been a gift to make it happen. So, what's the change in your promotion, anyway? Look, in 2018, at the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, we used an $18 million promotion budget. This year, the year we're in, we've been able to push this number, our advertising budget, transfer our other resources here to 72 million dollars. And you're already seeing the positive results in this year's tourism data. Starting next year, with the launch of Turkey's Tourism Promotion and Development Agency, our promotion budget is up to $180m. Look where the $18 million is, the $180 million. By 2023, that number is up to 220 million dollars. Look, if we're gonna play this game, that's how we're gonna play it, because that's how our competitors play it. Either we're in this game or we're out. If we don't play this by the rules, we'll be out of the game, like we've been back and forth so far. That's what the world does, and that's how we started doing it from this year on. Well, this Turkey Tourism Promotion and Development Agency is useless, it's brought 7.5 huge loads in a thousand, tourism will be ruined, investors will die. I keep hearing a saying like that. Look, I'm in this business, Mr. Deputys, so if we're going with 7.5/000, let's not play with it anyway. Look, the Tourism Promotion and Development Agency of Turkey gave its first benefit in the Thomas Cook crisis, and if we didn't have the Tourism Promotion and Development Agency of Turkey in the Thomas Cook crisis and our broad budget rights... look, we solved the crisis in four days, we solved the crisis in four days. Spain couldn't do it, do you know what the price was for Spain? The minimum was 10 per cent -- 10 to 40 per cent -- to lower the price. Look, 10 per cent is 12 times 7.5 per thousand. Look, Thomas Cook won't be the first company to go down or the last company to go down. If you're doing business in this business, you have to know about it, you have to increase the immuneness, endurance of the industry. And that's the way it is in the world, there's no other way that we've gone through it, and we've gone through it just in time, and the first successful outcome is the Thomas Cook crisis. After a long break as the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in order to increase the number of tourists and our tourism revenues, we ran a very busy promotion campaign in 2019. Our country's advertising films, particularly the leading and most popular television channels of Europe, have been shown in the written press, with the largest audience, and our country's cultural, historical, and tourist values have been introduced by the publication of our country's ads and content. In order to increase our number of tourists and tourism revenues, we have increased the number of countries we promote by 2019. Look, I'll give you a few examples of this: What did we do in the year 2018? We've done digital advertising in nine countries and got 250,000 hits. We've done 45 ads in 16 magazines in five countries. And we've been to the fairs. So, what did we do in 2019? It's the first time we've started television commercials, we've done television commercials in three countries, we've gotten 10,376 GRPs; it's a very serious number. We've increased the number of digital ads from 9 to 24, and the number of clicks that are 250 million to 4.5 billion. In six countries, we've done 419 magazines in 44 magazines, and we've gone from 45 to 419. What are we aiming for in 2020? We aim to increase the number of countries we advertise in television to 18, or to receive 34,500 GRPs. In 45 countries -- so it was 24, and it was 9 -- we aim to do digital advertising and get 7 billion hits. We aim to advertise a thousand pages in 90 magazines in 12 countries. Besides, we're going to be using a lot of things like fairs, PR, hosting, digital, social media, like movies, outdoors -- I don't count them, because they have lower budgets, because these are the key pens -- and we're going to keep doing these as variations. To achieve targets, we'll increase passenger traffic from remote destinations. We're going to group our cities in Turkey, which are very close to each other, cultural, archaeological and gastronomy. That way, we'll extend the time by giving you an alternative to more places to travel. In particular, we will create environments that will make history, art, archeology, gastronomy, and cultural features of areas that are prominent by sea, sand, solar tourism, and that will allow the tourist to stay out of the hotel for a long time and increase his spending without housing. By going to the diversity of products, we will highlight different products, such as culture, art, archeology, gastronomy, religion, sports, nature, health, entertainment, shopping, congress, ▪cruis. So we're going to create supply diversity. These activities are also important for the length of the season and for the spread of 12 months. In tourist cities, we will make cultural, art, international organization events part of the city and lifestyle. Thus, during the low season, the environment for tourists to visit these cities several times a year, and gastronomy is also intended for higher revenues from non-hostile activities. On 27 September 2019, the 2023 Tourism Strategy, which we launched, along with Turkey's digital gate to the country, the website, we created all social media accounts with more dynamic new designs and content under the roof of the "Go Turkey." (Go Turkey) portal will continue to serve as a more comprehensively efficient site, such as detailed information, activity and activity guides, travel planning. We will focus on the main markets that still send tourists to our country in large numbers, as well as on emerging markets such as China, India, South Korea, Japan, in the Far East and Pacific regions, which are a source market for tourism growth around the world. The developing economies of Central and Eastern Europe will also be included in our new focal markets. So we aim to develop new focal markets, with tourism resource diversity. In addition, 2019 was a year when our Ministry conducted intensive cultural diplomacy activities abroad. As part of the Year of Turkey-Russian Reciprocal Culture and Tourism, there have been more than twenty cultural activities in Russia. As part of the Year of Turkish Culture 2019 in Japan, very prestigious cultural and art projects, particularly the Topkapi Palace Exhibition, have been implemented, and a large number of local media reports have been published about these events. Look, these activities are very, very important. We purposely halted all promotions in Japan in Tokyo and Kyoto, especially before we performed this exhibition. Before this exhibition, in search of Turkey, the Japanese were unable to enter the top 100 percent of the world; see, during the exhibition, they were first in their search for Turkey until July 15th -- the Japanese who did not make it to the first 100. We will now continue to expand these exhibition activities in 2020, 2021. In order to reach large populations, Instagram and other social networks have been given high levels of followers and interactions, the hosting of well-approved account holders in our country; in 2019, more than 700 media members, sector representatives, and ιinfluencer have been hosted in our country. In 2020, we aim to welcome 2,400 people in our country. Mr. President, according to the World Tourism Organization's barometer data in September 2019, Turkey was the 6th largest tourist attraction in the world in 2018, and was the 14th largest tourist income in the world. In January 2019, October, 46 million visitors were exceeded and more than 51 million visitors were targeted at the end of the year. Our 2020 target is 58 million visitors. During January 19th-September, tourism revenues increased by 26.6 billion dollars to 16 per cent compared to the same period of the previous year. Each person's overnight income was $70, with an increase of 3.4 per cent from the previous year. Our total income goal in 2019 is 34 billion dollars and 41 billion dollars in 2020. There's something I'd like to point out in particular. It's important for us to come each person's way, but it's much more important for a night's work, the number that brings us to the truth is a night's work. During the crisis when we saw the lowest level in 2016, when we saw the lowest level of income per person saw 62 dollars per night, hopefully this year we'll close with $70, so there's a serious improvement, right acceleration. Our ministry continues to invest in co-operation with the sector within budget funds. Plane fuel support for travel agencies was terminated on 31 December 2018, and 96 travel agencies were paid about $873m for this purpose. Seven companies paid $19.5m to provide support for travel agencies from the group "A" with a croissant ship in our country. In 2020, $20 million will be paid for 2019 support. Our forward croissant reservations are going very well, and we predict that our port of Galataport, which will be in service by the beginning of April 2020, will be in full capacity as of the 2021 season. For the 2022 season, we will leave with our new Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure in Yenikapi until the end of June 2020. We have an important matter of infrastructure. With instructions from our President at a meeting with the mayors of the capital city, our Ministry has begun to take over the investments in decontamination of municipalities whose fiscal structure is not sufficient for wastewater infrastructure in tourism areas. In the first place, Serik and Antalya Municipality signed the protocol for taking over the Belek treatment facility investments. The process of feasibility and rotation for the belt treatment plant has been initiated. Also with the Muğla Metropolitan Municipality, there was an investment in Bodrums, Bags, Redwoods, Yaljiftism, Drinkings, the wastewater treatment plant, feasibility, and the process of the eradication process. These projects are planned to be completed gradually from 2020 to take place in 2021. In order to increase the number of Blue Flags yearly and receive the share of the world's tourism industry, important work is being done with the Ministry of Health, with the financial support of our ministry. In 2019, our country was ranked third in the world with a total of 500 beaches, marinas and marine tourism vehicles. We will add new beaches to the Bodrum and Fountain beaches, which were opened in 2019 as part of the public beach project that we started in order for the locals to benefit from reasonable prices, and this season we will open at Belt and Bodrum. The public beaches are free of entry, and our people are welcomed with the right price and high service standards, and we aim to increase their numbers every year. In the meantime, I would like to point out that the public beaches have received a great deal of approval and demand from the public, so we've decided to increase their numbers. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are among the top five countries of 17 cultural values in which Turkey has registered non-Semitic Cultural Heritage Lists with its work in UNESCO. In view of traditional Turkish archery, UNESCO is expected to be recorded as the 18th element of humanity's Unsubstantiated Cultural Heritage List. First, on September 25, 2018, its scope was expanded and then signed on 23 September 2019, under our Ministry of Education and the Ministry of National Education, the Protocol for Professional and Technical Education Development Co-operation. We provide students who study tourism in vocational and technical Anadolu upper secondary schools with the Ministry of National Education to receive six months of intensive skills training in hotels and businesses during the April-October period. In the 9th grade, they will also graduate 20 hours of English education, Russian language education in the 10th grade, and Chinese, Arabic, German and French education in the 11th grade, according to regional property. In 2020, 39 schools are added to 11 vocational upper secondary schools that are already under protocol, and the number is planned to reach 50 (50) and 200 (200) by 2023. Look, we've created an exact position here. First, we created it for students; students graduate by studying three languages in intensive language, learning very well. So even if he doesn't work in the tourism industry in the future, he's making a very important investment in his career as a student. He's been paid twice as much as his regular intern's salary for six months, by facilities; that's part of the protocol. So they're both learning three languages very well and getting paid twice as much as they should, a position for the student. Our biggest problem in hotels, you know, is that because there's seasonal tourism, we need seasonal staff. By the time we get to 200 schools by 2023, about 200,000 students will benefit from these opportunities, so 200,000 students will be employed in our hotels for the season. Another position because it solves a huge problem for hotels. Our Ministry of National Education has also begun to receive high demand for tourism upper secondary schools, which have not received much demand before. You know, the number of tourism vocational high schools is normally 76. We are starting this transformation by converting other vocational high schools -- at first we aim at 200 -- into an Anatolian technical vocational high school, so our National Education Ministry was created in terms of both our students and the hotel sector, the tourism sector, and the outcome was very, very positive. That's what we understand about demands. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, in 2019, a project was launched to develop the tourist awareness of the taxi shop at Istanbul Airport, Sabiha Gökçen Airport, Historical Peninsula, Tiranam and so on in Istanbul province. Now, what pleases me here is that demand and demand come from taxi drivers. We did a project, but they're all lining up. That's a very good thing. We're going to keep giving cabbies these trainings a lot, but first of all, we can't force these trainings on them if they're not willing. In that respect, it's both tourism and taxi drivers, and it's good news for the trade. Mr. President, some of the important lawmakers, a diaspora and a public diplomacy institution, are part of the activities carried out in 2019 by the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, about Turkish citizens abroad: More than 5,000 young people from different continents have been brought to our country to know their homeland. With a Turkish-German partnership in Hamm, the European Sports and Culture Festival (ASKFEST) was held in Hamm, where 60,000 Turkish and German citizens visited. About 1.5 million of our citizens, Serbia and Macedonia -- this is very important -- arrived on land this year -- were greeted by Turkish police and officials of the Foreign Turkish Presidency. So, Turkish police served at the border crossings of Serbia and Macedonia with the organisation of the President of the Turkish abroad. Another country from Europe has now made demands; hopefully a few more countries will make demands; countries are calling us now, so they want Turkish police officers and officials of the Foreign Turkish presidency to be at the border crossings. They were guided by all the needs of our citizens. Nearly 4,000 students received Turkish education. More than 200 dignitaries were given project support. A total of 30 library-Anadolu reading houses opened in seven countries to allow our citizens to access Turkish books. Our children and young abroad were distributed 4,000 Turkish teaching sets and 200,000 children's magazines. The Turkish Alumni Programme was conducted, 63 alumni programmes were organised. I mean, they graduate from us, they leave us, but we don't forget them, so we continue the relationship with the Turkish Alumni Program so they don't forget us. As part of the Turkish scholarships, 146,600 applications from 167 countries were received in 2019, and 4,491 students were scholarshipd as a result of interviews in 69 countries. As of today, nearly 16,000 international students from 144 countries in our country are studying in 70 different cities, 125 universities. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been operating in the areas of economic, commercial, cultural, technical and education, supporting the development of fellow and sister states around the world; in the words of our President, the TİKA, which operates in order to reach out to wherever there is trouble in the world, and to assist it, performs nearly 2,000 projects and activities a year on 5 continents. Many projects have been conducted in the Balkans, the Middle East and African Geography in re-inhibited artifacts, which are our shared historical and cultural heritage with countries in which we co-operated. TİKA will continue to side with the oppressed, with a understanding of human-oriented, Turkish-type development aid, based on transparency and intimacy, unlike the decent Western organisations in planning and implementing activities. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the foundations that have a very important place in our history of civilization and have always played a conjoining and unifying role in our social system over the centuries, and have played a serious role in the social, cultural and economic life of the Turkish world. Since 2013, the restoration or restoration of 50 foundation cultural assets has been carried out by the responsibility of the ownership of this important cultural heritage. In all four countries, including Crimea, Bosnia, Yemen and Georgia, in Ottoman geography abroad, the inventory of the foundation cultural assets have been completed. Work continues for Kosovo, Macedonia, Palestine and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Restoration of 688 works in the last three years, including 291 in 2017, 210 in 2018 and 187 in 2019. In 2019, 20,315 families received a total of 78,780 food benefits, and 21,000 students were granted a scholarship. According to the General Directorate of Foundations, Bezmilalem Foundation and Fatih Sultan Mehmet Foundation University are founded in İstanbul, and Bezmilalem Foundation of Gureba Hospital continues to continue its existence in medicine, providing health services to our needy citizens. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Yunus Emre Institute, one of the most important actors in our cultural diplomacy, serve with 58 Turkish cultural centers in 48 countries. In addition, in 50 countries, the Institute, which runs the 101 universities and the Turkology Project, continues its services at 159 points of contact in 74 countries. Turkish has been taught so far to 150,000 courses by the institute's work on teaching Turkish as a world language in foreign countries. The Turkish Teaching Portali was also developed and began a trial broadcast in February 2017. As of December 2019, 301,000 members of the world's 193 countries began learning Turkish as members of the system, which was completely free of charge. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History is an institution that aims to conduct scientific research in social and human sciences, such as preventing corruption and alienation in Turkish and the development of cultural and historical awareness covering all areas of life. In 2019, the High Institution provided free distribution of a total of 48,000 works in the country and abroad, and will continue to distribute free art in 2020, in support of Turkish language, history and culture, to universities, libraries and public institutions. In 2019, institutions within the Supreme Institution participated in a total of 56 book fairs, 38 nationals and 18 internationals. There are some speculations that our national Library has been shut down, and I'd like to mention in particular that the people who are speculating are, unfortunately, gossiping. We have a national Library, which continues to serve twenty-four hours in its place. And let's not close it, we're making it bigger. The unique collections within our General Directorate of Libraries have been included in the inventory of our National Library. With additional storage units that we've been investing in, our archiving capacity is doubling. Our total shelf length, which is 70 kilometers [70 km], is rising to 170 km [1.5 km], and our access to exhibitions and collections is increasing by 2.5 times. New reading halls and social donuts are being built on top of all the storage spaces and parking spaces we've built underground. Moreover, in 2020, we aim to get them all in the ministry. Writing is one of the most valuable treasures a nation can have, both with scientific and artistic values and with the ability to carry cultural heritage from the past to the present. The only way to benefit from such riches is to provide them with proper guidance. The Suleymaniye Birthhouse was opened as Turkey's first and only book healer, equipped with the necessary equipment for book restoration, book restoration, conservation and research. It has been restored to 1,200 writing works by the end of October 2019, with the restorers employed in the hospital since 2011. Another 500 works are planned to be restored in line with their 2020 target. Our ministry aims to develop awareness in the culture and science world and become a reference institution in the field of classical text publishing through its publishing work on writing and rare works. As part of the 1001 Arts Project, conducted by our Writers' President, the study and publication of the content of writing works is being provided, each one of which is considered a source for its scientific field, bringing culture and knowledge into our lives. So far, almost 140 classical works have been published and presented to readers as e-books. It was also added to the collection in 2019 by buying about 2,000 artifacts to further enrich libraries. Our ministry has provided financial support for the film industry since 2004, which has led to a huge increase in the number of films and viewers produced in our country. In 2018, the number of local films debuted at 18 in 2004, reaching 44 million in 2018, with an audience of 11 million in domestic films. As of November 2019, the number of films produced in our country was 133, and the total number of viewers was 53.3 million. Our Gezen Cinema Truck Project has brought our children from our villages and counties to the cinema. The film industry received 38 million liras in support of 179 films, editing, documentaries and scripts in 2019. In addition, as of November 2019, the cinema was supported by 102 cultural and artistic events in the area of the country, which was from abroad to 71, at $25.5m. At the beginning of this year, our New Cinema Code has been enforced by our President's very valuable contributions to the development and growth with the support of the state in Turkish cinema in order to boost our sustainability and international competitiveness, to make our country one of the film production centers. The laws and ads have been organised, and the problems between producers, distributors and movie theaters have been resolved concerning movie ticket sales. The reflections of this change into the industry have been very strong, and with films being put on display by producers, the number of cinema audiences reached 8 million people in November alone. The problem with transparency in the sector with the Cinema Ticket Tracking System, prepared by our ministry, has also been resolved. In this direction, to promote film shooting locations in our country, to allow foreign producers to access all the information they need from one location, the filming in Turkey has been prepared and opened to access. The portal will serve as a bridge between our country and the world cinema industry. With the New Cinema Law, we will also support our films, which have been followed with great interest in more than 150 countries so far, and are in exports in the world after America, and we will encourage the production of films that will contribute to international promotion of our country and our culture. Another very special study of cinema is the Museum of Cinema Project. In Atlas Pasaj, one of Istanbul's most original structures with historical and cultural texture, we plan to bring the Museum of Cinema, designed as a prestigious monument, into our country and into the world's culture, art life in 2020. İstiklal Street, Taxim, Beyoğlu; you know this region, the heart of Istanbul. We will expand the steps we have started with the Ataturk Cultural Center and the Cinema Museum with new projects to make this region a living area integrated with culture and art. The issue of intellectual property rights has been an important part of cultural development and the economy. Bandrol is also an important factor in receiving statistical data on sectors as relevant as the fight against piracy. At the end of the year, the number of bands sold for video games will exceed 400 million in books, movies, and music productions. The control commissions in the provinces seized 1,890,000 pirate material during the 707 operations carried out in the first ten months of 2019, effective work by law enforcement. At this point, I'd like to make a specific point: we're being criticised by the content of some books on the market for our ministry. Our ministry does not have the authority to oversee the contents of the artifacts. No work can be processed or sanctioned for its contents before being published. This is a public censorship exercise and there is absolutely no censorship in Turkey. For a legal sanction against the works of our society that are uncomfortable, our citizens must not resort to the Ministry, but to the prosecution. In 2019, the Eser Data Table was used online as a mobile application for about 1.5 million works of music, cinema, and books, which allowed you to access dog tags from one location, such as the owner, publisher, producer, and producer. As ministry, we serve with 1,135 artists in music and performing arts and three art museums in the music community. There are 84 cultural centers in our country built by our Ministry. We also have 32 cultural centers that have been built by the Ministry and assigned to local governments. We will open the Istanbul Ataturk Cultural Centre, our two most important projects, and the Ankara Presidential Symphony Orchestra building and its campus in 2020. In the 2018-2019 art season, our audience scored a 24 per cent increase compared to the previous season. Next season, we aim for a 35 percent increase. Dear lawmakers, the State Theatres, which we celebrate this year's 70th anniversary, continue to serve our people by increasing the number of stage and audiences each year. 2018-2019 season, we're aiming for our 1 million, 780,000 audiences to exceed 2 million this season. Each year, eight theatre festivals are held in the country, six of which are international and two of which are national. We're starting a new project to ensure that our children, who have never seen theater, have access to the theater. As part of this project, the Thyatro rig (Tiyatro), we will arrange for three different plays to be met with children and young people who have never seen theatres in 24 counties and 56 districts in Eastern Anatolia and Southeast Anatolia. In 2019, tours were organised to many countries around the world, such as Russia, Thailand, Northern Macedonia, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, as well as the elite works of our repertoire to promote Turkish theatre art and literature on an international level. In 2020, our tours will continue, and firstly, the Turkish theatre will be successfully represented in important countries such as the Netherlands, Germany and Iran. For the first time, 25 local writers have been supported by the play to encourage local writers and works. We consider private theaters our priority in 2020. We're doing an effective package study on support. We'll significantly expand and diversify the support package. We'll continue to increase support for 2020-2023. Transferring our countless works of culture through intercultural artistic communication is a subject that our Ministry has focused on. For this purpose during the art season 2018-2019, the concert of Turkish Music Travel from West to East as part of the Turkish Year of Tourism event in China, the National Theatre of Thailand, the National Theatre of Thailand (Piri Reis Τ) ballet, the Turkish Year of Culture in Japan, and a few of our international exhibitions, as part of the opening programme for Turkish Tourism and Ottoman Empire, were only successful as part of the opening show at the Tokyo National Art Center. In the 2018-2019 season, 322,000 audiences were reached as a result of established representations conducted by our State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, and our audience increased by 11 per cent compared to the previous year. International festivals of Istanbul, Aspendos, Bodrum, Efes Opera and Ballet were held between 2017 and 19 August to promote our country internationally with culture and art. As in music and other performing arts, we also performed opera and ballet days in Gaziantep, Eskişehir, and Tripoli to spread opera and ballet throughout the country. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, RTÜK, launched chain meetings with its associates in 2019. The first of the RTÜK Media Meetings to share ideas with media service providers was held on February 20, 20,19, with the theme of publication and RTÜK. The 2nd Media Meetings were made with television and film producers. The meeting stressed that the demands received at the first meeting in February were evaluated by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the RTÜK presidency and that a rapid work process was launched to meet what was required. In this scope, it has been said that the problem of access to broadcast bans has been solved, that each broadcaster has been given a special password, and that the link given on the RTÜK web page can now quickly and comfortably reach the extent of the broadcast bans of all institutions. At the point of increasing revenues, it is said that the work continues to create flexibility and expand the ads with both legislation and administrative decisions. We're making media meetings traditional, and we're going to keep doing this on a regular basis. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to continue my discussion by informing you of our Ministry's envisioned budget funds for 2020. Our budget for 2020 is estimated at 5 billion 127 million, 247,000 liras, including our connected and relevant organisations. 3 billion 770 million and 83,000 liras of this budget have been envisioned as a current budget, $1 billion 357 million 164,000 in investment budgets. Mr. President's position is not to be a strong and leading country in all areas. When we march side by side with our nation, we will carry out our duties in both culture and public diplomacy and tourism. We are determined to use our budget for 2020 in the most efficient and efficient way to contribute to Turkey's 2023 vision by turning its unique potential in the fields of culture and tourism into reality through the right and ideal projects and by implementing public diplomacy. Before I stop speaking, there are two charges against me, there are personal charges against me, Mr. Osman Budak, I'd like to answer them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll just give me two minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0494par0134	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0492par0135	They accused me of violating my neutrality by interviewing the opponent in the TOURSAB elections. They accused me of sending a supervisor to the private company of the president of TÜRSAB. Now, I'm obliged to make an appointment with all the tourism partners who have asked me for an appointment in the position of Minister. If I'm here to divide power-Muslim, then I'm in violation of my neutrality. But in TURSAB, my heart and conscience are at ease in the claim that I violated my neutrality in the election. Why is it comfortable, Mr. Budak? In his election speech, the president of the TURSAB thanked myself for not being on the side; it's on the record, and it's on social media, so I'll send you a videotape of it if you want. So I guess Mr. Budak, I deserve an apology here. Your second charge is to send a supervisor to the TÜRSAB and the President's personal company. And I'll give you a statement about that: yes, it's true, we sent an auditor to the TURSAB, and we kept this task of sending a supervisor, especially until the election was over, not to disrupt the neutrality, not to create a false perception. We've had a lot of complaints. Complaints about what? You know, we've given TURSAB the right to give licenses and documents with Law 1618 -- a right long before me, given decades ago -- many, dozens of complaints have come to our side regarding the fact that TÜRSAB received mandatory donations when giving these documents. We waited specifically for the elections to be misconstrued during the election, and after the election was over, we put in the audit on the allegations, and we saw that there were five, 10, 20, not 30, not hundreds of donations, mandatory donations...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0495par0139	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0496par0140	Has the nation's era been declared?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0497par0141	Listen, brother, just listen!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0496par0142	Has the nation's era been declared? The allegations of Saffet Ulusoy...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0498par0143	Mr. Budak, just a moment...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0144	In fact, let me read one sentence in the bank receipts, and you should look more at the situation where the industry is facing each other, and I'll only read one: what is it to donate money to buy paper, whether it's poison, money, or paper? There are dozens of such words. I'll send you printouts of all this, along with the original bank receipts. Now the TURSAB demands a change in Law 1618, and says that in its demands, increase my powers, give me more licenses and documents. What would you do if I gave you more authority as a Ministry if you did this with your authority? Can you imagine what's going on around here? You know, there's been ticket fraud, etcetera, and so there's been public damage, and this second event is about TURSAB. That's why we kept Law 1618 waiting and why we sent inspections. Now, it's true, we sent a supervisor to send an inspector to the private company of the president of the TÜRSAB, and we waited until December 1 to make sure there was no misunderstanding.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0500par0148	Did your companies have a tester?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0501par0149	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0150	Okay, I'll tell you. Now, our museums have been auctioned off by the WHOM. You know, museums have stores, DMV stores. These stores were given a run for Anatolian Cultural Enterprises, Inc.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0502par0152	Does your company share with him?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0503par0153	Hey, listen up! He's answering her.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0154	Congressmans, last year at the budget speech, you made an accusation to me, and you said: "Can water be sold for $41?" How can you sell chocolate for 20 liras, toast for $30? You were right about these accusations. I've taken all these accusations seriously, I've called the firm, and we've warned them repeatedly, verbally, that's wrong, you misinterpret the terms of the contract, it's opportunism, don't do it, fix it. So, who owns this firm? Current Tursab President Firuz Binkaya. Now, what was I supposed to do? Should I have ignored the criticism from the public and from you and not done anything? In the first place, we withdrew 20 percent of the prices, again demanding a 50 percent withdrawal by the beginning of the year. We'll continue our inspections on them.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0504par0158	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0159	Mr. President, it's over. One last thing... now, Müğla MP Mürsel Alban....has an accusation about investment in Kissebügük and Bags tourism field. Look, Kissebük, First Grade Natural Site and First Grade Archeological Site. So there can't be any zoning permits, there can't be any building permits. In addition, at the request of the Sea Chamber of Commerce, we launched rescue excavations during my Ministry, and the results of the rescue excavations are very positive. We're raising his budget and his team, and we're in a lot of digging. So there's no way to invest any hotel, as claimed in Kissebük.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0505par0161	Is there an islander or not, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0162	Ha, what you call Adalian is a cove about three and a half miles from Kissebüpe. In 2005, the islander was auctioned off by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism 14 years ago -- what's an investment in the investment of the hotel; he's bidding for an allocation -- the Ministry of Culture and Tourism -- more than ten companies have been tendered, and I have been left with the tender because my firm has given the highest price -- open tender.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0506par0164	Complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0165	This land, see, is not my personal property; it's an allocation of land given by the state by thousands under the 49-year Tourism Promotion Act. All the rights to this land, the rights to this land, were all recognized before I became Minister. Now, about that, Congressman, I've been asked several times in the House, as well as in the form of a question motion. I've sent all of these documents to my deputies who have made a question proposal. Now I'll send you all the official documents. Look, I'm showing you the official document, the paper trail.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0507par0167	I have it, Mr. Secretary, I have it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0168	As for the area related to the bag. Now, look, Bag Bay...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0507par0169	Mr. Secretary, for 25 acres of 92 acres...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0508par0170	Listen!
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0171	I'll send it to you. We'll talk in private, no problem. As for the bag of tourism...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0509par0174	One moment, dear friends, one moment... the Minister is making statements, let's hear it, folks. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0176	Now, look, we just talked about something. At a meeting of our mayors and presidents in the capital city, the mayors have asked us to do so.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0509par0178	Complete it, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0180	Especially Muğla Metropolitan Mayor Osman Bey came to me, and he said: "I need support with the purifications. I don't have enough resources financially. Would you do this as the Ministry of Tourism? By order of our President, we -- you know, the law came to you -- in Law 2634, by making a change in the Law on Instigation, we have the authority to invest in tourism in such areas. I asked Osman Bey himself, teacher, where is the most troubled place? He said to me: "There is not even a sewer in Torba. Let alone a sewer. Look, for 30 years, it's been open to tourism for 40 years, not even a sewer. So I said, let's start there.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0510par0181	Why only Bags, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0182	Look, the bag alone won't be enough, so can you do a decontamination plus a sewage system that includes the Insulation and Drinking zone? Okay, we confirmed it. And since there's no tourism field in this area, we've put it in the tourism area. But to avoid any misunderstandings, please see this on social media -- I personally invited the mayor of Bodrum.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0511par0184	Complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0185	I told the mayor, "Friend, look, this is a tourist area, but if there's a request for a change of development here, we'll direct it to you, and we'll assess your demands if you see fit. Oh, if you don't, if you don't, we won't even consider it. This is the subject of the bag. Oh, do I have a hotel in Bags? There is. In 1985, my late father did it 35 years ago. Now, look, I've got a hotel in the Belt, I've got a hotel in Belek, I've got a hotel in the Side, I've got a hotel in many sheep of Bagage. Now, are these areas going to be victims of my hotel? I don't think that's true, guys.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0511par0187	Dear friends, please, let's be quiet.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0499par0188	As I end my words, I would like to thank you once again on behalf of myself and my Ministry for our budget of 2020 and for our country's well-being.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0511par0190	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now meet your motion to speak against you. The request for a statement against him belongs to Mr. Gürsel Erol, our Alazig MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Erol, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0512par0194	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. When you hear the speeches, Mr. Minister, the speakers will call you -- and you'll call yourself Minister of Tourism in part of your speech -- as the Minister of Tourism, but you're not the Minister of Tourism, you're the Minister of Culture and Tourism. Anyway, he's the main problem with the Minister of Culture and Tourism. Now, I'm going to use my speech in part to defend the institutional identity of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, partly against its practices. First of all, let me just say, is there a success story in tourism from the Minister's arrival in the tourism sector? Dear friends, there is. There really is a success story in tourism, but the more success there is in tourism, the more failure there is in cultural politics. (HPP) Now, our Minister actually expressed it himself, they said: "The foreign tourist who visits the sites and museums is 85 percent, and the local tourist is 15 percent what does that show? This shows that there are places in Turkey that knit, and there are foreign tourism potentials for museums, and this system is sitting down. But the fact that the local tourist still doesn't go to learn his own knitting places, his own museums, his culture, his tradition, his travel, his 15 percent status, means there's a problem with cultural policy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Minister, you can approach this as a tourist, but I think the main problem is that in Turkey, actually, the integration of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Tourism is a big mistake. So the Ministry of Culture has a different function, the Ministry of Tourism has a different function. For example, it's true that the Ministry of Culture is connected to the General Directorate of Foundations. But if the Ministry of Tourism had been a separate ministry, it would have been more appropriate for the Turkish Credit Fund, which was attached to the presidency, and for the presidency under the name of the President of Communication, the Ministry of Tourism today. To promote cultural policies, the Ministry of Culture, founded in the first period of the republic, has institutions protected by its institutional identity and produced by bureaucrats based on merit. What's all this? The General Directorate of Fine Arts, the General Directorate of Culture Assets and Museums, the General Directorate of Libraries and Publishers, the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet, the General Directorate of State Theatres; they were not very active. These should be activated and more active and spread activities throughout Turkey. Minister, I'll speak in favor of your ministry's corporate identity. Now, think of the ministry's overall budget, total budget, as much as a quarter of the General Directorate of Highways. So the general budget of a ministry is about a quarter of the budget of a general directorate. What does that tell us? In fact, although one of the most important ministries in Turkey is the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the importance of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism remains undetected. Even at the level of a general manager, the budget is unsealed, which should increase the ministry's budget. This could be one of those games of chance...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0513par0201	The highways are investors.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0512par0202	Sir, the General Directorate of Highways addresses a service industry, but the Ministry of Tourism provides bread for millions of people in this country, creating jobs and jobs. (CHP cheers) Mr. Secretary's identification is correct. In fact, you can create more jobs in the field of service with both cultural policies and tourism policy in terms of improving investment in the service sector, and one of the main sources in support of the Turkish economy is tourism development, and the Highways are investors. I'll give you an example: The Ministry's 2020 budget for investment in cultural assets is said to have a grant of around 500 million. Do we have any lawmakers here? I don't object to the investment, but just to make a comparison, 550 million is an allowance from the Highway General Directorate for the improvement of the Elazýg Coalhan Bridge Connection Tunnel and the landscaping area. Look, the price of a county's bridge and tunnel is 550 million, a Ministry's funding for cultural assets all over Turkey is 500 million; that's the comparison. That's what I'm trying to say, and I'm trying to evaluate it, and I'm saying, this is not enough money for the ministry, we need to strengthen the ministry's budget, we need to support additional contributions.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0514par0204	Mr. Erol, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0512par0205	New funding for the development of museums is needed for the restoration of cultural assets, for the preservation of cultural assets, for the development of their building spaces. Madam Secretary, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism must be connected to the National Palaces. The Treasure Search Charter must and must certainly be changed because private individuals should not be granted a treasure-seeking permit under any circumstances or circumstances outside their own property, especially if its own property is in the status of immovable cultural presence, which should not only be granted cultural presence, but should not be given natural status and cultural status. The Ministry alone and only the Ministry must have the authority to search for treasure in public areas and private areas. And we need to change the regulations on the dig presidency, Mr. Secretary. I can give you these in detail, as well as in a report. Yeah, would a dig take 70, 80 years? So you're digging, and since you're not taking precautions to maintain restoration at the dig site, climate conditions are also destroying the artifacts you've uncovered. These should be studied. Culture managers, like before, should be assigned separately in the city's cultural and tourism administrations, and the heads of tourism should be assigned separately.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0514par0208	Complete it, Mr. Erol.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0512par0209	I have one last call and request from you: I demand that you bring in the men of the technical staff, based on merit, by breaking the influence of MEMUR-SEN, in your ministry bureaucratial assignments. I have a request for my constituency: in particular the restoration of the cultural presence of the Harput and Palu region, the tourism, the establishment of a travel route with Tucson, which I served as a MP in the 26th term, and the demand for the implementation of nature tourism in Tucson, and I wish your 2020 budget to be good to your Ministry and bureaucrats.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0514par0212	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0515par0213	Sir, I have a brief request for 60.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0514par0214	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0515par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. You have no doubt been informed that a recent earthquake occurred in the province of Balıkesir at 23;14, and in İzmir and İstanbul -- the figures are also mentioned on the band's 4.9 and 4.6 -- were also felt in the province of Balıkesir. First of all, we wish the locals well. According to the preliminary reports, there seems to be no loss of life, but let's see how well they're aware of it and how prepared they are for it, and we'd like to know without making it work. On this occasion, however, Turkey goes neither before the earthquake nor after the earthquake, with zero preparation. Zero preparation, zero measures and first, including gathering grounds, education, school priorities, I'm sorry to say, I don't want to be a disaster whisperer, but it's a fact that we're going to suffer in the event of a larger scale earthquake.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0516par0221	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0515par0222	I'm ending it, Mr. President. On the occasion of this earthquake and as we discuss the country's budget, I would like to draw the attention of the Supreme General Assembly: to warn the government's lack of this issue, its negligence, its insensitivity -- no matter what you call it -- is, above all and above all, the most important work of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0517par0226	And I say to all our citizens in the area of the earthquake, get well soon. I hope and hope that we don't see any sad events. We'd appreciate it if the Minister's information would come to him in the meantime, and he'd share it with our House. I just want you to get well again. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the first round of speeches is complete. Now we're going to question-answer. Half of our 20-minute question-answer process will be used by our lawmakers, half by the Commission to respond. We wrote down our friends who entered the system this morning, we recorded them, we'll follow them in that order, and we'll promise. Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0518par0294	Thank you, Mayor. Hasankeyf's murder is ongoing. Human history, laid in the cradle for dozens of civilizations, is being destroyed for 50 years of dams. Hasankeyf is stabbed in 12,000 places, and most of his work is still underground. 1) Some artifacts are being moved. What's your criteria for moving? 2) What do thousands of caves and artifacts mean to you? 3) What does the word culture mean to you? My fourth question would be: "Do you feel guilty for Hasankeyf? " But after your presentation, I stopped asking.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0519par0301	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0520par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Speaker of Parliament is that all living presidents, who have been back on the agenda recently, have been set up by parliament commissions to investigate the assets of prime ministers. You know, Mr. President's assets are also on the agenda in the U.S. House of Representatives. In fact, Turkey should be the subject of the Grand National Assembly, not the U.S. House of Representatives. Will you be trying to set up a commission to get Erdogan and his family out of this crime? Will you take on a political responsibility? My other question is again to the Speaker: there's an article that was distributed to the rooms on December 9th, yesterday, and you're installing camera systems in the corridors and around the main building. Where did this need come from? Why did the previous camera system fail? In what circumstances do you have to keep an eye on everything? My next question is to the Minister of Culture: Mr. Secretary, my question is regarding private theaters. In the 2019-2020 theatre season, private theaters are so...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0521par0307	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0522par0308	The historical and cultural values of the province of Niğde, which was the capital of the Kingdom of Cappadocia and Tabal with its 10,000-year history, are not given the importance of its historical and cultural values, it has not been allowed to take part in tourism. Mr. Secretary, you've sent some crude answers to our questions at the Budget Commission. We asked if scientific studies would be done in historical areas, and you're saying that these places are part of the status quo. That's what we know. You don't do enough scientific research in Niğde, you don't protect it, you don't repair it, you don't introduce it. Will the existing Tyana Ancient City, the Gardened Mansion, the Altunhisar Kneuk, the Great Badger, the Farm Tepecic scientific digs spread throughout the year? Will the central Castle Environment Project, Bor Middle Neighborhood, be made available for tourism purposes by Ulukish and Öğü Mehmet Pasha Kervansara? What is being done to promote the historical, natural beauty of Bor, Altunhisar, Piner, Farm and Ulukish?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0521par0310	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0523par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I wish the 2020-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal to our country, to our nation, to our institutions. My question will be to our Minister of Culture and Tourism. Mr. Minister, my constituency area has a huge wealth of culture, history and tourism. Do you plan to initiate the establishment of the Council for the Protection of cultural assets to speed up operations under the protection of this rich cultural heritage? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0524par0315	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0525par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish that the 2020 Central Management Budget Law Offer would bring blessings to our country, to our nation. My question will be to our Minister of Culture and Tourism. Foreign films in the country are known to be very important in the introduction and tourism of countries. In this sense, in our country with all kinds of natural plato properties and technical infrastructure, do you have any research in developing film tourism? And it's World Human Rights Day. Each year, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is celebrated on December 10th, the day the United Nations General Assembly adopted it in 1948. We are proud to be one of the first countries to sign this declaration, which guarantees the rights and freedom of the people on this day that we celebrate its 71st anniversary. Throughout history, our beloved nation, who has made this geography the home of peace and peace for all people, regardless of color, language, religion, and all people, has been the greatest inspiration for our understanding of government and justice that embraces 82 million.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0526par0321	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0527par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. 1) Mr. Minister, in your speech earlier, you said: "We are building wastewater treatment facilities for municipalities. Are you going to build a flat waste water treatment plant and a waste treatment plant? If you're not going to do it, why don't you do it? 2) The 63rd Article of our Constitution organises the preservation of historical, cultural, and natural assets. Are you fulfilling the requirements of this substance? Do you have a sustainable tourism and culture project? 3) How much of this tourism budget, the ministry budget is earmarked for our city? 4) How much is the tourism budget earmarked for our province? 5) A fee is being paid for visiting museums and knitting sites. What company was this given to? Do these companies have any connection or partnership with the companies you own? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since when do you have one? Otherwise, I'm sorry, friend, you don't have to raise your hand like that.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0528par0330	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0529par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Culture is a reflection of understanding, but for a long time, we understand life as understanding the thought that the West had designed and made. Because that's what we've been told, and the rest has been described as outdated and regressive. There used to be people in villages who used to market some of the small items in trade style, called Mercenaires. These people sometimes traded the antiques in the hands of the public with their own plastic goods. For many years, like this, we traded our priceless cultural values for modernized plastics, which we lost while they were winning.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0528par0333	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0530par0334	Minister, I've been a member of the Mersin MP and Tourism Commission for three semesters. Although each year we have repeatedly expressed Mersin's problems with tourism, none of the tourism projects in Mersin have been implemented. This period, especially the Smiley Snowslide Ski Center, because a project on the border of Mersin, which will address both the 2 million inhabitants of Adana, and the 2 million inhabitants of Mersin, has been immediately earmarked for the implementation of this project -- again, the Tartarous Tourism Zone has been spoken of for years. There are also eight tourist sites in Mersin, Silifke Narlikuyu, Silifke Taşçü, Gülnar Middleburun, Anamur Melleç and Silifke Ovacik, where you can do an exemplary project in at least one of the tourist zones. So Mersin, Antalya, and the rest of our provinces in the Aegean are sadly behind in tourism, a city that has 350km of coastline, a symbol of Danyal Alayhissalam, the Ashab-i Kehf... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I look forward to your support, my compliments.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0531par0339	Mr. Kenanoglu...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0532par0340	Mr. Secretary, Haci Bektas Ders is one of the Alevi's religious and religious centers. To you, it's a museum, but to us, faith remains the center of worship, and to that end hundreds of thousands of people visit each year. In 2019, 544,000 people visited in 11 months. There are some problems here. 1) Inside the camp is neglected, there are spills. 2) It is not available due to the lack of galactic funding that has previously been applied to the odor remover and the foot plugs. 3) Some of the materials found in the inventory at the headquarters and owned by the Derkat were taken to the site of the "Tadilat" or "Tamirat," but were not returned. These include, for example, starboard, musical instruments, Bektashi dervisi clothing, some recordings and pictures. Some of this hasn't been returned in eight years. What happened to them? When will these be returned? The Hadjibekans and all the Alevi public demand your answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0533par0345	Mr. Keven...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0534par0346	Mr. Secretary, as you know, the historic Yellowkaya Roman bath was taken to the World Heritage List by UNESCO, and an example is a historical legacy in England. The digs that started in 2009 were stopped for an unknown reason. And 50 businesses for excavations have been nationalized and destroyed. Now, I ask the Minister, why were the excavations stopped? The digs were going to stop, so why did you tear down 50 businesses? Why isn't it destroyed and destroyed by the AKP district president, whose property is owned by the private administration, while destroying 50 businesses in the same place? What is your project on Sarkaya Roman bath? Will you make Sarikaya a tourist destination? Yours truly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0533par0348	Mr. Gergerlioğlu? No. Finally, Mr. Arik...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0535par0350	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, about ten years ago Ertugrul Günay Kayseri promised him a state theatre. However, there is no Ertugrul Günay, nor is there a state theater in Kayseri. Is the state theater like a high-speed train, the expansion of the airport a lie? On behalf of the Kayseri people, I ask the Minister of Culture and Tourism if you will fulfill your promise ten years ago. When will the public theatre come to Kayseri? Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0533par0352	Now, to answer the questions asked, I leave the promise to you, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0536par0353	First, Mr. Engin Altay, you asked me a question about the Balıkesir earthquake. We've spoken to the governor, and there's no loss of life or property at this time. But they're also trying to reach the villages, one by one, but they don't have expectations right now. Let's satisfy that curiosity first. There is a question from Ankara MP senol Sunat. You know that I mentioned this in the Commission. This is a 20-odd-odd-year-old issue, which is not the subject of this period, but is a long-standing issue, and since I've been Secretary of State, I've put a lot of weight on it first. The decision was issued by Mr. President. The relevant regulation was also published, but before we made the contracts, there was a problem: This arrangement was prepared because it was understood that it had affected not only our institutions but other ministries, but also other ministries. It's very close, very close, and in a few days, this arrangement will take place in a few weeks. So, to make it more clear, as of January 2020, these contracts were planned in the budgets of the relevant institution in our ministry, and that's how it was put in the budget. So now it's over, it's over. Again, Mr Kemal Bülbül, the MP of Antalya, has said that the museum and its knitting places have turned to ruins. Look, in 2019, there was a 280 million grant for the operation and maintenance of museums and knitting sites. Even so, with the additional resources we've created, we've raised that number to 500 million liras. And we've gone from pre-season exposure to toilets to intensive repairs and maintenance. Again, we've seen that the rating and evaluation page with the Turkish Museums, which we've brought in for measurement this year has increased by 93 per cent, but if there's anything missing, please let me know -- or you can write it on this platform very quickly -- or you can write it on this platform. Again, Ankara MP Senol Sunat is inadequate in support of private theatres. 6 million, 102 thousand liras divided by the number of theatres that have been helped, is like 20,000 liras. Some theatres are given less support while more help is being given. Look, I mentioned it in my speech. We especially consider private theaters our priority from 2020. We're preparing an effective support package, we're going to expand significantly, and we're going to diversify incentives. We will also continue to increase support in 2020-2023. So now we're not going to go on with percentages, we're going to go on increasing this support in some way -- including 2023. İstanbul MP Abdul Ahat Andican had comments on the values of our republic and on Ataturk, which are no longer prominent. I asked the relevant institutions, Mr. Andican. There are four pages of compressed paper about the activities of relevant institutions towards Ataturk and our republic. If I count these, I'll have ten minutes. I'm sending them to you tomorrow in a detailed form in text. We have a very large budget, a lot of work. Again, the question of Ankara MP Murat Amir. What is the foundation, which was founded on behalf of martyrs and veterans, should be transferred after July 15th? The foundation, established under Law 696, was founded on the property of $10m. The head of the trustee committee of the Foundation is the Minister of Family, Work and Social Services. Since the trustee committee meeting has not yet been held, the board could not be created. You have something on the address, there's been a little mistake there. Regarding the address, it was registered as the building's number, It is the Ankara City Directorate's additional building of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services. The foundation can be obtained from both the relevant ministry and the General Directorate of Foundations if requested. The question is, where are the changes in the Law on Ideas and Arts of İstanbul's Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milkylü? The Law on Ideas and Arts No. 5846 is primarily in harmony with international regulations and envisions deterrent sanctions against violations. However, studies are being carried out within our Ministry in order to change Law 5846, which provides for the creation of a more effective copyright system in our country. The meetings, which I personally attended, suggest that the demands of professional troops and sectors, which are the benefit of the law, should be considered to be a maximum consensus among them. I mean, there's no consensus, but they're getting to a point. At a certain level of principles, technical studies on the process of writing of the law continue. We'll send him to the House soon, at least to those who have been compromised and those who haven't been compromised. The budget for our ministry has been reduced by 2019-2020. Now, even though it looks like it's been reduced on paper, it's not really reduced on reality. Why not? In our budget of 2019, we have a share called 873 million euros in fuel support, not a routine share, but a one-time package used to compensate travel agencies for the crisis in 2016-2017, under the influence of the crisis. Of course, as of 2018, this package was no longer needed, and after 2019, 2018 was removed from the 2020 budget because the payments were made in 2019. So if you compare it to this fuel pack, our budget actually went up 50 percent, it didn't go down 50 percent, our budget went up 50 percent. In addition, we also have rotating capital revenues outside the budget, and we're getting a very serious income from our return capital revenues, and we're using these return capital revenues in a lot of our spending. It's about the RTÜK President's salary. RTÜK President Ebubekir Şahin is paid 13.200 lira a month as of today only as a member of the RTÜK Supreme Council; until he is separated from his administration, he has received $70,000 a month's pension, not as he was claimed as a member of the Turkish Board of Directors; he does not receive any salary from the General Assembly of the Press Agency. There's a two-story lease on the TOBB Twin Towers. RTÜK pays a monthly rent fee for 2 floors rented in TOBB twin buildings, including 40 per cent off, totaling $54,000, including VAT. And under market conditions, it's a very reasonable price to rent. If you examine it, compare it, you'll see it's reasonable. There was a statement that only the president of RTÜK was found on the 6th floor. The RTÜK Main Service Building is located on the sixth floor of the RTÜK Main Service Building, as it was at the time when MP Ali Öztunç was a Member of Parliament, the RTÜK Vice President, the RTÜK Vice President, the Press and Public Relations Advisory Office, the Office of Special Staff, the Office of the Chief Assembly, the Court's supervisors' offices. As alleged, the claim that the 6th floor was assigned to the president of RTÜK is incompatible with reality.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0537par0363	Answer our questions, Mr. Secretary. You read the activity report there, where you were going to answer them.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0536par0364	Gürsel Erol MP says that 15 percent of the museums are Turkish and 85 per cent foreign. There must have been a misunderstanding there.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0538par0365	Mr. President, he didn't answer any verbal questions.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0536par0366	85 per cent of their income is foreign, 15 per cent domestic. So if you look at the number of visitors, it's 65 percent foreign, 35 percent domestic visitors. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism must leave. They also have a thesis called the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. My personal opinion is the two important elements that must be carried together by culture and tourism. It means tourism, your art, your archaeological values, your culture, and your values here. With your lifestyle, you can separate from rival countries. The more you support your culture, your art, the greater your income in tourism. With the same logic, we're already moving a lot of our revenues from tourism into culture, so outside of what you see in the budget, we're using a lot of our tourism revenues to support our cultural activities. Let the permits and regulations regarding the search for treasure change. There is a request. We've already made a statement about that. We're also making this change, and hopefully in a month, we'll do it in two months. Now, let's make a change in the dig rule.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0539par0371	Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0536par0372	The excavations are allegedly not carried out enough. Now, look, I saw this distress especially after I was in office, and I mentioned it in my speech, that he was scraping for 45 to 60 days. The dig presidents... There was a claim that there was a shortage of resources involved. The first thing I did was solve this resource problem, and I started a 12-month digging program. What do you mean, 12 months of digging? The dig presidents are applying to us, making us approve the expenditures they're going to make in their application and the number of staff they're going to employ, and we want a minimum number of staff, see, not at maximum, but a minimum number of staff. When they meet these requirements, they're involved in the excavation support program for 12 months. Last year, 2019 -- the year we're in -- started with 20 dig presidents -- next year the number goes up to 62, and the next year the figure will be completed by 121, so we'll put all the dig presidents in 12 months. You know what the real trouble we're facing here is? The problem isn't with us, it's actually with the dig presidents. Unfortunately, when we invited them to the 12-month program, we saw that some of them were reluctant.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0540par0374	Set it up accordingly.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0539par0375	Mr. Secretary, a few more questions, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0536par0376	We've even removed several dig heads, and we'll continue to take them. And we're not gonna be limited to that -- ground dig presidents -- that's what I said in my speech. Thirty-two foreign dig presidents are next; they have the same problem, digging between sixty and ninety days. We're going to make them the same offer, so if you don't have a source and you can't spread it to 12 months, please hand it over to our local dig presidents. We're going to say, we're going to start taking over, so that's what we're going to do.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0540par0377	Take the ancient city of Tyana among them.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0536par0378	Is there going to be an investment in Düzce (Düzce) about development investments? See, the treatment investments need to be a tourist area priority, and that's why we added the area of tourism to the bag.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0541par0379	It's a straight-up tourist town.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0536par0380	And it's got to be on the shoreband and it's got to be a density priority. As long as the resources are available, we'll continue to take over the treatment facilities, but I told you, we're number 2634...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0542par0382	Let's continue, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0541par0383	It's a flat tourist area, Mr. Secretary. It's a flat tourist area.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0543par0384	Is Kayseri coming to the state theater?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0541par0385	I don't get it. If it's not a flat tourist field, where is it?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0544par0386	Tell them to answer my written questions meticulously, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0545par0387	And, Mr. Mahmut, you asked a question about museum tollbooths: do you have any partnerships with the ticket company or the store business company in the museum and its structures? Look, the tenders were made long before I was Minister, and businesses were given to these companies. I don't have a partnership or a relationship with either of these firms, I don't have organic or direct or direct control, so let me answer your question.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0541par0388	How much tourism do you share in the flat, Minister?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0545par0389	Now, look, we don't divide this by this much, that much by this, that's not the right way to do it. What are we going to do now with the Tourism Development Agency? We will form groups of four, five, and determine the potential of tourism in each province. I mean, I saved this much money, I squandered it, there's no joke. We have how to market at the Tourism Development Agency first... the countries that send us passengers, the products that you market, the areas that we have. We're collecting our areas under certain tables, and we're also collecting them according to product diversity. And we're not just doing it because it's Düz, we're matching four or five of them around it. If we don't do that, you'll have a very high cost of introduction, and you won't be attractive, because since you don't have the potential to attract tourists alone, we'll have to run the areas of tourism close to you. And we're going to weigh in on all of their promotions at an equal rate with the numerator collected here. Oh, we've already selected members of the Tourism Development Agency to be equal here, if you've noticed. So what did we say? I want seven representatives from each of the geographical zones to come with an election, defend their territory's rights, especially and consciously...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0541par0390	I'm defending him as his deputy, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0545par0391	No, but you're not at the agency.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0546par0393	Well, Mr. Secretary, let's do this: I see a lot of problems coming.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0547par0394	Mr. President, we're done with the questions of Mahmoud Tanal.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0546par0395	Dear lawmakers, Mr. Secretary will send you the answers later in writing to the questions that he received this note but is unable to answer because of time, and we'll record them. Your Honor, you were going to make a statement about something. Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0548par0398	Mr. President, there are 137 cameras involved in these security cameras. This was done within the knowledge of the Presidential Court and by the decision of the Security Co-ordinating Board. The issue here is the safety of the House, as well as the security of our MPs, personnel, visitors.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0549par0399	There were already cameras.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0548par0400	They're not in the lobby, they're not in the congressman's rooms, they're not in the corridors where the congressman's rooms have been found; they've been placed by the Presidential Court's order in places where security is thought to be vulnerable in the open areas outside. Other than that, there are no motions or proposals for the investigation of this property from lawmakers or political parties to our presidency.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0550par0402	Dear friends, we've done the QA.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0551par0403	Mr. President...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0550par0404	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0551par0405	Mr. President, I have a brief request for 60.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0550par0406	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0551par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I would like to point out, of course, the Minister's 2nd budget presentation, but I also asked the friends: Is this the first time the Minister is offering? Did I mix it up? Mr. Secretary had to answer or do so consciously during a 45-minute period of time, during which he had been given criticisms on behalf of the groups during the day. So I don't think this QA mechanism is working right, I'm not looking for an ulterior motive. Of course, he chose to explain his actions instead of answering his own criticism over time. But in the meantime, I wanted to write this down so that it wouldn't be an example, and I wanted to bring it to the attention of the Minister and the General Assembly. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, sir...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0552par0413	Here you go.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0551par0414	And with all due respect, Mr. President, our Müğla MP, Mr. Mürsel Alban, said in 1995 that a place was reserved for Mr. Minister's company in Bodrum Island, or rather not a date. Mr. Minister said: "I bought that place in 1995. " He buys it, Mr. Minister has a large tourist company, I have no objection to that. But our congressman, after the Minister's reply, entered the system after his speech, probably escaped your sight. Now, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Alban says: "It's true, 92 acres were assigned to everyone in 1995 -- just as it was given to everyone -- but after Mr. Secretary took over this mission, he was assigned 25 acres to the Minister's company. And he says that the document is in his own possession. Now, I'd like to ask the Minister, Mr. Albana, the Muğla people, his people, if this is ethical, Mr. Secretary? If that's the case, I just picked it up.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0553par0416	I'll send you a document. The commission on this...
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0554par0417	Mr. Secretary, just a moment... Mr. Altay, have you finished your promise?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0555par0419	Let me finish, sir. I mean, I just picked this up, and I didn't read it, but I trust my congressman. I don't find that ethical. I'm not looking for any cash, I'm not looking for any negativity, but if you've been assigned this since you were Minister, Mr. Secretary, it's not elegant. I want to underline that. Furthermore, has this decontamination facility been moved to another location, moved to another location -- our great city municipality has a request, but has it been granted a tourist allocation? That's what we're wondering. Thank you.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0556par0423	Mr. Secretary, please, you have a statement to make.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0557par0425	Now, the relevant additional allocation was issued in February 2018 by the Commission's decision. He's showing you the date of the process; I'm going to send you the document of this -- nine months before I became Minister -- the document of the transaction to my two deputies, the official, sketchy document given by the Ministry itself. Let's make it clear that way. The encouragement in the bag... what encouragement did I not understand about it, about purifying it?
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0558par0427	He said he was moved.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0557par0428	No, he hasn't moved. Look, I'll tell you this: The cleaning place in the bag covered Bagbook only when we did it. You know, CHP has asked me to raise the number a little bit more, including the area of Yalı and Drinks. The number was going up a little bit, but we found the demand right, and we found it right, and we renewed the protocol like this, but if you don't mind, if you don't mind, I'm bordering with Bagage, so if you don't mind, I mean, if you don't mind the Parliament, but, in fact, it was what Mayor Osman Bey wanted, it was the right request, and I approved it, and I did it.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0559par0431	Okay.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0560par0432	We asked for information, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0559par0434	Dear friends, please be quiet, dear friends, be quiet. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2018 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area Now, I'm going to have the budgets of public administrations in the first round, respectively, and I'm going to make them read their budgets and final accounts separately, and I'm going to submit them to your votes. [[Whistling]] Dear friends, let there be silence; we don't want to make mistakes to read numbers here. Dear friends, please shut up. Now, the Court is going to talk a little bit, because we're going to read you the numbers, and we're going to vote the numbers separately. We don't want to make mistakes, we don't want to make mistakes, but let's make sure there's a silence. Dear lawmakers, I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 02) THE GREAT MILITARY OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 1,747,789.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly's central management budget was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's central management account of 2018 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 1,282,338,094,49 Budget Expenses 1,085,803,519,44 Canceled Grant 196,534,575,05 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's final account of central management in 2018 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Management budget for 2020 of the Public Control Agency, those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 40.60) PRODUCTION OF CAMU EXPERIENCE 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 35.508,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 35.508,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2020 of the Public Control Agency has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account for the Office of Public Control should be transferred into the chapters of 2018: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2018 Total allowance 26.502.300.00 Budget Expenses 22.870.462.19 Canceled Fund 3.631.837.81 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 22.903,000.00 Collection 21.385.890.09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2018 were adopted by the Public Control Agency. I submit to your votes that the Constitutional Court be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 73,607,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Constitutional Court's central management budget for 2020 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Court's final account of central administration in 2018 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2018 Total allowance 69.080.200.00 Budget Expenses 55,597,923,58 Savings Expenses 110,627,50 Canceled Fund 13.592.903.92 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Constitutional Court's central management account in 2018 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Court's presidency be transferred to the central management budget for 2020, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Chairman of the Court's Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 412,090.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Court's presidency was adopted in 2020. In 2018, I submit to your votes that the central administrative account of the Court's presidency be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2018 years as Chairman of the Court Total allowance 276,701000.00 Budget Expenses 259.378.236.33 Canceled Fund 17.322.763.67 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 4.699.829.29 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Court's presidency were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Culture and Tourism shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 21) CULITOR AND TURISM LOOK 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 5.127.247,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2018 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 5.338.319.910.32 Budget Expenses 4,489.304.100,19 Emancipation Expenses 776.08 Cancelled Grant 848,837,038,17 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 554,546,415,01 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight will be transferred to the budget of 2020, for those who don't accept... those who don't. 42.01) RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 177.882,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 177.882,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Radio and Television Oversight was adopted in 2020. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight Board's final account of central management in 2018, those in favor... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2018 Central Management Final Account Total Payment of 180,000,000,00 Budget Expenses 100,664,615,45 Canceled allowance 79,335,384,55 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Earnings estimated at 180,000,000.00 Collection 104,848,388,34 Ret and Returns 262.139,12 Net Collection 104,586,249,22 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Radio and Television Supreme Board were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2020: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.16) THE DEVLET OPERA AND THE BALL OF GOVERNMENT 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 400.928,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 399.678,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the State Opera and Ballet Office shall be transferred into the chapters of the Central Executive Account of 2018: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2018 Total allowance 327,637,500,00 Budget Expenses 326.610.588.25 Canceled Fund 1.026.91.75 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 300,291,00 Collection 308,613,038,15 Ret and Returns 106,557.00 Net Collection 308,506,481,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2018 were adopted by the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Theatres will be transferred to the budget of 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.15) GOVERNMENT PRODUCTION 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 321,480.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 320,480.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the General Directorate of State Theatres was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the General Directorate of State Theatres of 2018 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) State Theatres General Directorate 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 290.236.600.00 Budget Expenses 279,473,624,88 Canceled Fund 10,762.975,12 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 243,626,000,00 Collection 271,446,687,91 Rejections 3.451,14 Net Collection 271,443,236,77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2018 were adopted by the General Directorate of State Theatres. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Writers Association will be transferred to the budget of 2020: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 40.53) THE PRESIDENT OF THE ARRANGEMENT OF TURKEY 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 45.305,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 45.205,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Writers' Association was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Writers' Association shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2018: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 42,407,785.00 Budget Expenses 39.842.238.51 Canceled Fund 2,565,546,49 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 34,525,000.00 Collection 34,166,946,41 Refuge and Returns 1,922.00 Net Collection 34,165,024,41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Writers' Association's Office were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of Foundations be transferred to the central management budget of 2020: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.18) THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 529,021.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 982.615,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the General Directorate of Foundations was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the General Directorate of Foundations in 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 1,100,477,543,90 Budget Expenses 1,076.102.999.90 Canceled Fund 23.980.494.96 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 394.04.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 741.212,000.00 Collection 963.918.502,77 Ret and Returns 41.623.869.87 Net Collection 922.294.632.90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2018 were adopted by the General Directorate of Foundations. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.32) Turkish Employment and COORDINIASYON AJANSI Vice President 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2020 General TOPLAM 489.147,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: TOPLAM 488.147,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency was adopted for 2020. I submit to your votes that the head of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2018: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2018 Central Management Final Account Total grant 420.173.43.43. Budget Expenses 388.891.059.17 Canceled grant 24,207,575,43 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7,074,798,83 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 317.302,000.00 Collection 333,293,261,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.51) THE PRESIDENT OF THE YURTDISH ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTIONS 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 351,848,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: TOPLAM 351,748,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget for 2020 of the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad has been adopted. In 2018, I submit to your votes that the president of the Foreign Turkish and Relative Community, the final account of the central administration, shall be transferred into the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 356,583,463,78 Budget Expenses 350.079.270.44 Canceled Fund 6,504.193,34 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 285,828,000,00 Collection 345.375.388.29 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted... Parts of the central management account of the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2020, those who have not accepted... those who have not. 40.02) THE ATATURK CLUB, LANGUAGE AND ARTIAL PRODUCTION 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 15,650,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 15,610.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History, in 2018, will be transferred to its final accounts: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 13.050.182.04 Budget Expenses 12.308.473.80 Canceled Fund 741,708,24 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 12,483,000,00 Collection 12.414.442.02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History were adopted in 2018. Dear friends, please be quiet. Look, we're following the numbers very carefully, please.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0561par0812	Mr. President, while the appreciation is yours, sir, now, of course, there's a majority of the AK PARTY Group here, but when you read the text, when you read the text, when you read it, after you say it, it will appear that fingers don't rise in the AK PARTY group. He removes one of the 3 MPs, and we lift more. Fingers are important here, Mr. President, so let's be careful. (CHP and AK PARTY) Raise your finger.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0559par0813	Our friends are following us, guys.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0562par0814	You gave no to all the budgets.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0561par0815	Yeah.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0562par0816	Ataturk has given the budget of the Institute for Culture, Language and History to the CHP no, I want it known.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0561par0817	It's not an institutional budget.
tbmm-2019-12-10sit07spe0563par0818	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's be quiet, please. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Cultural Center will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.03) ATATURK RESEARCH CENTER 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 6.971.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 6,971,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ataturk Research Centre was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ataturk Research Center in 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Ataturk Research Center 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 6,488,000.00 Budget Expenses 6,052.842.47 Canceled Grant 435,157,53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 5.285,000.00 Collection 5.369.644,16 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Ataturk Research Centre were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Cultural Center will be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.04) ATATURK CLUB CENTER 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2020 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 7.408,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 7.408,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ataturk Cultural Center in 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2018 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 5.978.662.17 Budget Expenses 5,228,764,13 Cancelled Fund 749.898.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 5,073,000,00 Collection 5.106.356,21 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Ataturk Cultural Centre were adopted in 2018. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation be transferred to the central management budget for 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.05) ENGLISH LANGUAGE 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 GENEL TOPLAM 19,693,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 210,343,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Language Association's central management budget of 2020 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Language Foundation in 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Language Institution Terminates Central Management Account for 2018 Total allowance 34,051,250.00 Budget Expenses 29,821,015,48 Canceled allowance 4.230.234.52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 226.387,000.00 Collection 344.021.105.94 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Language Foundation's central management account in 2018 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Foundation be transferred to the central management budget of 2020: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.06) Turkish Tariq Kurd 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2020 GENEL TOPLAM 16,360,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 212,049.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Historical Association's central management budget was adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Historical Society in 2018 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2018 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 34,590,124.07 Budget Expenses 31,821,769,68 Canceled Fund 2,768,354,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 221,275,000.00 Collection 308,383,634,68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Historical Institution's central management account in 2018 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the President of Cappadocian Field shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2020: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.67) THE PRESIDENT OF CAPADOKIA 1) The Central Management Budget for 2020, the President of Cappadocia Area General TOPLAM 25.230.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 25.230.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the capadocian field presidency was adopted in 2020. Dear lawmakers, the budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the first round have been approved. I wish him well. Congressmans, the first round of talks is complete. According to the programme, 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 11th 2019) to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
